ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. We're going to start the entire Union, and we'll do it with a minute's silence for Santiago Brouard. [[One minute's silence]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u1	Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I remember that the parliamentary Laruri has inherited the vote to the spokesman of his party, and that the second point has been left for another. First point in theme list: General activity protocol for moving between lands, protected by minor migrators alone. "The discussion and final resolution of the work which the parliamentary party has proposed against this treaty." In the opposite round, besides Misto, is there no one else to participate in it? So the word is yours, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u2	Thank you, Madam President, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. With this writing of opposition to the protocol between the Canary and Basque governments to move menas, once again we have demonstrated that we have come from Vox to change things. A political party had rarely interfered with the actions of this Government and used this parliamentary tool to denounce what we are dealing with today, an agreement that will not solve the lives of those who arrive deceived from their countries in search of a better world. And even if we are going to criticize, in fact they have already done so in some media, those who are so close to them, in Vox we are not going to be afraid or stop doing what is expected of a political party represented in this Parliament, which is only to remain vigilant to the action of the Government for the common good of all Basques. And I'm sorry to spoil today's headlines, but don't get confused, our opposition to this convention is not aimed at the miners who arrive in our country illegally. From Vox we will not charge against them, from Vox we charge against those who encourage them to come, against those who induce them to risk their lives with false promises of a better life. The latter are the culprits, it is the governments, like you, the Basque Government, who, boasting of a lack of solidarity, attract all these illegal immigrants, drawing them a multicolored world that has nothing to do with the reality they discover once they set their feet in the Basque Country. You offer them a candy that is just wrap, nothing inside, no solutions, no plans or any guarantee of the future. A bitter treat that forces them to go to the streets and seek their life at their own risk. Many times, moreover, illegally. And that's when you're delinquent, when you get your hands on your head. But the problem does not begin when these menas arrive in the Basque Country. It starts a long time ago. It begins when you are invited to know the bonanzas of the developed world, to join a prosperous and happy society of fairy tales. It starts when you offer papers for a monthly pay in exchange for nothing, that's where it all starts. And then what, after disappointment, poverty, envy toward others and a survival instinct that leads to committing crimes, to stealing, to wandering around our neighborhoods, to sowing insecurity on our streets. Because the data is there, they can't hide it. There is a direct and proven correlation between the increase in illegal immigration and the increase in crime carried out by these immigrants. According to the Basque Country's Statistical Criminality Portal, in 2020 the State Security Forces and Bodies reported a total of 77,176 criminal offences. As far as 2021 is concerned, these infringements have increased by 7.6%. By stopping us in the profile too the data are crystalline. Over the past year, foreign detainees outnumbered nationals. There were about 3,000 foreigners, 2,982 to be exact, and more than half of them were of Maghreb origin, 1,596. In what we have been doing this year, the data is on the same path. All of them were embellished by the so-called effect of this Government, by songs of siren that faded as they realized that they were alone and on the street at the age of 18, away from their countries, from their families and without resources. Because the reality is that the Urkullu Cabinet lacks alternatives for these menas when they reach the age of majority. But of course, this isn't what we're talking about, is it? Their false progression is more in the line of concealing that there has never been any plan or intention to insert them into Basque society. Moreover, this Government also does not have solutions for many young Basques who are condemned to enlarging the lists of unemployment or to carrying out tasks that do not correspond to their qualifications and abilities. Vox doesn't say it, Lanbide's lists say it. That is how it is with this Government. They do not solve the problems of those here and encourage us to live among ourselves at a time when we have arrived in our country illegally, yes, illegally, because there are also tangible data about their irregularity, even if they try to hide them from society. The Basque Country despite its lower population density is one of the Spanish communities with the highest rate of illegal minors, more than 30%. This is barbarity. In short, a lot of propaganda, zero resources and broad is Castile, because they do not develop laws that allow them to act against them when they commit crimes. Since Vox we insist: this doesn't... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... a lot of propaganda, zero resources and broad is Castile, because neither do they develop laws that allow them to act against them when they commit crimes. From Vox, we insist: this is not going to criminalise the miners; it is you and your government partners who invite you to come and then disagree. And another question: what does the Basque Government get out of all this? Because the Basque Government does not leave empty-handed, the signing of this agreement is not free. The Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration leaves and distributes the hut among the complacent communities, right, Mrs. Artolazabal? 10 September 2021, Plenary of the Territorial Council for Social Services and the Unit's Autonomy and Care System. First distribution of direct subsidies to the Autonomous Communities for the care of unaccompanied immigrant minors. The Basque Country hosts 15 menas from the Canary Islands. Receives 610,000 euros. Second distribution, according to the number of unaccompanied immigrant minors, during the second half of 2020, that is, 557 minas, the Basque Country receives half a million euros. Taking out the calculator, in total, only between these two subsidies, because there are many more, the Basque Government collects more than 1.1 million euros. In any case, amounts less than the 2,056,000 euros he received in 2018. This leads us to think that more and more money comes out of the Basques' pocket for these menus. So stop fooling the Basques already. This is not a question of solidarity. If you were truly supportive and sensitive, and if you had a halo of humanity, you should not have allowed these menas that have entered our country illegally to be one minute away from their parents. These children, deceived on many occasions, must be returned immediately to their place of origin and remain under the care and guardianship of their parents, not of an institution in a territory far from which they had never heard of and with which they have no bond. They shall neither keep nor keep any bond. The progressive discourse that has attributed them an ethical and moral superiority that does not correspond to them, invites the non-integration of these young people among us. You are more respectful of your cultures of origin than your own. And that doesn't help at all. And they tell us about solidarity. Solidarity is to remove heaven and earth so that these minas return with whom they should be, so that they return with their parents. Solidarity is to care for our young people who are in a precarious situation because they do not find employment. Solidarity is to give support to dependency to vulnerable people who are waiting for them and do not receive them. Solidarity is to help all Basques targeted on long waiting lists to access an official protective housing. Solidarity is to help our elders, who wait to obtain a place in a residence and do not receive it. In Spain, there are 18,000 children living in orphanages. Most of them are doomed to grow up alone, without a family, because the huge bureaucracy and administrative obstacles do not promote their adoption or make their situation visible. To this extent, it is the lewdness of the governments that Spanish adoptive families have to go to other countries in order to adopt. Who remembers these children who are our children? Solidarity is to attend first to ours and then to others. In this agreement with the Government of the Canary Islands, we are told of interterritorial solidarity, but only with the foreign immigrants of the Canary Islands, not with the more than 1,000 canaries who have lost their homes and belongings in the eruption of the volcano. How much aid has the Basque Government given them? How many items have been allocated in the budgets for the sake of this interterritorial international solidarity for those who have lost everything on the island of Palma? I don't expect your answer. There isn't. Not a single euro. But, on the other hand, they do allocate huge amounts of money for the miners who live in the Basque Country, those who are already there and those who will come thanks to their policies of so-called effect. This is the reality: illegal immigrants are more important than Basques and Spaniards themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, solidarity is precisely to end this so-called effect. It is to exercise effective border control. It is to provide support to solve problems in the country of origin. Solidarity, with capitals, is to ensure that every child is under the care and protection of his or her parents. For Vox, this is solidarity. Everything else is pure progressive postureum.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u3	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. On the other hand, the representative of the populars of the Basque Group, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u4	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs Martínez, we share with you the concern that illegal immigration creates in our country. And we see that this situation is also becoming more complicated at the borders of the European Union on a permanent basis. It's complicated in a clear way, isn't it? And that's how it is. We know that there are problems generated by this massive immigration that puts the lives of so many people at risk and that has so many social, health and security dimensions. And we also look at the situation in which so many children, so many young people – sometimes neighbouring governments; sometimes mafias operating on the nearby coasts; sometimes the despair or deception or the vision of a Europe, a European Union that can have that feature of attraction – throw into the sea to reach our shores, in this particular case the coasts of the Canary Islands. But we also know that there is collaboration and understanding in the rest of Spain with the serious problems that this situation is generating in the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, which overflows all its capacities, the political capacity the first, but the assistance capacity, the social capacity of its authorities, and that must generate solidarity in the rest of the autonomous communities. You have mixed some issues today, but I believe that, as far as the convention is concerned, the derivative is one. And in that sense, you don't have to mix up many of the issues... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ...I believe that, as far as the convention is concerned, the derivative is one. And, in that sense, we must not mix many of the issues that have other components and, indeed, in some of which the concern you express is true. But I believe that we have to operate and not devalue that sense of understanding, of collaboration, of solidarity. In addition, I have to tell you that the Basque Country is not going to be the first community to respond to the call for assistance from the Canary Islands. Others have already responded to the reception needs that have occurred in the Canary Islands or previously occurred in Ceuta. And there have been many autonomous communities that, in that sense, probably all have responded to those calls for help and collaboration. And you express a concern, but I do not think, Mrs Martínez, with all the affection, that the opposition approach that you present to us is the best. We don't share it. If a Spanish autonomous community asks for collaboration for a problem as important as this, we cannot turn our backs and say that "there they are". Indeed, we can see the Government of Spain paralyzed many times, bewildered, because it has many of the capacities that you attribute to the Government of the Canary Islands and that the Government of the Canary Islands cannot manage and that we see many times the Government of Spain paralyzed and bewildered... But something has to be done. And something we Spanish have to do when there is a message of help or a call to solidarity and collaboration. And it's not as easy, Mrs. Martinez, as you ask, to take the minors and return them to their parents, to their countries of origin. And unless it can manage, practically or legally, an autonomous community. These proceedings are the responsibility of the Government of Spain. Actually, it can't be. You also confuse, in part of what you claim, the possibility of acting by the Government of the Canary Islands in order to disqualify the agreement. And that's not possible. He can't do it. I say again, neither practically nor legally. We have been able to find out how other communities and executives are responding. And we see that they are responding to that call for help which, for example, Castile-Leon has signed an agreement by 25 minors, which Extremadura also 25, which Galicia has already welcomed to 15, Canary Islands... There have been before with those of Ceuta, that Cantabria, Madrid also participate in the reception. And I have no doubt that the rest of the communities too. Some, too, like Andalusia, are permanent recipients of unaccompanied persons who come across the strait at their shores. Of course they cause a lot of trouble. Certain attitudes of some of the people who come and worry about citizenship. And to avoid such situations of insecurity is a responsibility of the security departments, within the various administrations. That is why I believe you confuse certain issues in this letter of opposition to the convention. And, above all, I say again, when you say that the Government of the Canary Islands should be more concerned and focused, focusing all its efforts on returning these minors to their countries of origin, with their families, instead of seeing them re-placed and dispersed in the national territory, with the direct connivance of the other autonomous communities, I have to tell you... I would say two things to you, basically, on this subject: that the Canary Islands Government cannot do what you ask it to do; it cannot, practically. And that's why he does it by asking others for help. I suppose it will be much more insistent than the autonomous communities on the Government of Spain. I guess it'll be a lot more insistent. But in any case, the autonomous communities of the rest of Spain have to listen to him and we have to help him in this case. And, of course, what you call connivance is not connivance. It's not connivance. I believe that it is the effort made by the autonomous communities, knowing that it costs them, that it also creates certain problems for them, that it is solidarity. It's working together to solve a problem. Therefore, these are the reasons why my group will oppose your opposition letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. At the time for answers, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Barrio, in fact, we do not criminalize the MENA. We have said this since the beginning of the speech. We blame both the Basque Government and the Madrid Government for this. I think that's been clear and clear from the beginning. They have also been doing a so-called effect and selling the yupi worlds to all of immigration. These guys are coming, and besides, that's what we're worried about, they're coming illegally. We agree on immigration, of course we do. But a legal and orderly immigration, not illegal and disorderly. I believe that this is fundamental to any democratic society that appreciates it. What I have very clear is that if my children disappeared from home one day, because they want to find a better world, I would worry, and more if they are minors. What I'd like is for them, in that place where they were, to get in touch with me and return them to me. I think that's fundamental to any parent. And I believe that for the stability of children who come from another country, with a different culture, the most stable thing is that they are with their parents and not in a reception centre, where they are practically not given any support or help. It is true that you have said that this is something that is reflected in an agreement and that all communities accept it. But I think that in Madrid, in a community where there is a lot more population than there is here in the Basque Country, the number of MENA is infinitely lower. Something will have to see all this. Having said that, we do not hold these minors responsible. We hold the governments that, with so-called effect, call them. A member of this House said publicly in a written medium: "If the PNV doesn't like some things I say, I don't like some of the things they say either. And that, in the political game and in democracy, is normal." A Member of this House said so. I'm not gonna say who, because he already knows. There will be different disagreements and approaches. And the most convenient thing is for everyone to be honest with what they think and say what they think. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's what there is. You won't like things he says... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... different approaches. And the most convenient thing is for everyone to be honest with what they think and say what they think. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's what there is. You won't like things that Vox says, but Vox has many things that you don't like and that you say, and neither do we understand. But you know, as this parliamentarian said, in the political game and in democracy this is normal, to say what everyone thinks. So, even if you don't like what we've said and you're against it, I think respect is fundamental. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u7	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Basque Popular must not speak. After the discussion, the proposal against the vote will be made. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 71; supporters 1, 70; abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u8	So it wasn't accepted Third point in theme list: "Mation, introduced by Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors, concerning the taking of the new legal measures of the Osacian public offers. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mrs. Ubera, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u9	Good morning, everyone. After the opening, we decided to register the motion from the parliament to give a little push to the negotiations that were being made on the sactorial table of the Oscars. Well, the direct measurements to be introduced to the workers, you know, since 2018, were decided by the public offer of Osamates, but they were not developed and not even agreed to correct direct measures. And so we thought it was necessary that these measures should be agreed with the workers, since it had happened in 2016 and 2017 OPEkin. But last Thursday, the Medical Department seems to have spoken of these negotiations, supposed negotiations, ended. As soon as we started, negotiations were over. And besides, the unions which had hitherto signed such agreements have also been excluded, that all the unions have expressed their dissent and have been excluded. Only a member of the family has been left alone, and the member has played with one side and will play. Besides, different agents, IVAPsius, Alensius, Arriclas, and the measures which have been made by so many motives, will remain at once directed to make an immediate application. It is true that from this field of direct measures some measures will be taken. It is true, too, that these measures do not guarantee impartiality and equality of choice. So, what are we supposed to think? We thought, and thought, that the first interested in this situation was the Department of Health and Osabas, to agree with the workers, and that they ought to have a special interest in curing the correct measures to agree with the workers, to clear up the names of the Osar. But, it seems, for reasons that we do not know, or, perhaps, in reality, agree with these praxies, or the reading that is intelligibly written (... SOCRATES: Well, then, as we have said before, that they do not suppose anything to do, but stand on the scales and continue the same as we have hitherto done. Or perhaps it was thought, or the government thought, that no one would dare to do these leaks in the present situation. We don't really know what the fundamental reasons are to proceed with this conduct and to keep up the praxies that are up to now. But the message which takes place in society is extremely disturbing, because the message which is brought to pass is that the government protects such behaviors, and that there is also this field of impenitivity, and that there is protection. Because we all thought that 2016-2010 OPEaks were irregularly worked together. We thought no one doubted that it was undeniable. And we would say that even the Osax and the Medical Department denied and did not deny that, or did they? For we want to think that Osapartics, when the Medical Department asked for reports of 37 correct measures, or when Jiménez asked for a report from Asensio, or asked for a report to the University of Oviedo for a reason. Although, from the recent performances, it may be inferred that irregularity does not admit irregularities. It is true, it is one thing to break irregularity and another legality; and it is certain that legality is still broken or not seen in courts and courts, and that there is a long way. For now, 20 of them are currently involved, even if they're with the final resolution, they're already... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... or, indeed, that it is still to be seen in the courts, and that the road is long. For the time being, 20 of them are booked, though with the final solution, the Department of Health, Health Department, and Ossar managers have been exempted from the care of them. But the prosecutor defends that legality is broken, defends, defends LAB, defends ELA, and there's still a long way to go. But the business of the legislature is not to determine whether legality has been broken or not, but to inquire whether there have been irregular performances, and to regulate the political cares of it; And above all, looking forward, looking forward to the correctation of what had happened that it would not happen again. Because we saw it, and we've seen it all this time, because it wasn't normal performances. However, whatever may be the way in courts of justice, it ought to be the privilege of the legislature and of the government, and it ought to be a matter of responsibility to insert the new public offering of the public, in order that it should not be confirmed by the fact that it was with 2016-7-OPE again. We should focus on that. And for that reason, we ought to agree with Osare, we should agree with the workers' representatives, with the unions, because at the moment we stopped there. There was not a pattern to be defined, which measures would be correct, but a purse of corrective measures was made, and it was said: A product offer will be agreed to for each model. And further, even in the legislature, the dispute should be opened about the new policy of opposition. Because what's underneath is a specific opposition policy. And it's no good to say in interpelation, as we were told in our Interpelation, that two years ago the Medical Department will perform the commitments taken before the Parliament. Besides, these engagements are not only those of the Medical Department, or of the Osar, but are agreed with different causes. And as soon as possible, government has no commitment to unions at the negotiation table to take these precise precautions. This is quite contradictory. And our question is: If these correct measurements are the result of collaboration, of collaboration, what is the problem that we are all able to combine? What's the problem? Or it is the policy of the headlines to make society understand, or society think that we are doing nothing about it. We want to be sold a number of measures, as if they were key measures to ensure impartiality, equality. For example, why do we want to be sold as a more important commitment, to ensure the transparency of the process, to provide the courts with an operational manual, when there have been operational manuals in previous OPEs, also in OPE 2016-2017? And we were able to contrast, when we analyzed and read the minutes at the headquarters of Osakidetza, that this operating manual was not respected, and moreover, it was not complied with with the permission and approval of the management of Osakidetza. It can be contrasted by reading the minutes. Furthermore, in response to the inquiry, the adviser tells us that they are not going to let go of VATP. And at the same time, at the negotiating table, it is stated that they will not count on VAT at all. Contradiction. Some say one thing and others say another. It is not understood that VATP is not available for the preparation of test-type examinations, so that they are as objective as possible to eliminate subjectivity in examinations, and it is said, as we were told in the inquiry, that the court will have the option of ordering the preparation of the examination to a stay, woe, pardon, an external body with experience and knowledge in this field. That is, we have an institute that is responsible for preparing, forming these issues with the Administration and we do not have it, and we prioritize another type of entity, another type of body, which we do not know what it is, by the way. Moreover, it is left to the discretion of each court. It is intended to prevent a single person from knowing and designing the examination, the final content of the examination. It is true that whoever wants to filter it will filter it, but wouldn't it help the traceability that the one who designs the test is a single person? We are also proposing the adoption of a code of conduct that includes ethical obligations, as well as the rights and obligations of members of the courts. So far there was also that agreement, that code. And what happened? It is true also that some of these measures have been mentioned, and that there are measures also in the purse of the correct measures. It is true, however, that these measures have hitherto been in force, and have not confirmed the possibility of equality, impartiality, or anything. It is true, in 100%, that all measurements will not offer a guarantee. But it's true that, in order to agree with the unions, the correct measures should be made to support the measures that match the unions, considering the starting point in which we are, to prepare the model that will be as objective as possible, besides giving IVAPeri the task, in order to guarantee the conditions of the examination. For it is curious, it has never happened as it has happened in Osaform. It is true, what I wish to remember at its moment, as a guarantee that the incorporation of IVAPs was sold to the design of study, transparency, pandering. What happened now? What happened? It is true that we can find different measures in the purses of the correct measures which may be taken in public offers, from which different measures may be introduced or not. But... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... that we may find different measures, from which different measures may be introduced or not introduced. But there are certain measures, which all the agents agree, and some which are important and essential to all. We think the opportunity has been lost so far. Even this time, at the Osacian table, a pretty chance has been lost to recinfinating an opening pattern, and thus to start changing politics. In the end, the pre-estated competition policy of our subjects is the living wheel that has been built in the Osax for years, and conditions the prexia of "o passes por el era." For here there are two possibilities: o passos por el era o jubilas afios. These are the two models, because the workers who are just trying to see or to prepare for themselves are looking at the real thing. And it's no wonder you're suspicious. It's not a question of trust. It's a pity that things should be done well, that things should be done well. To treat with equality all the workers who work in the professions, the best of them to play the best professionals, the false practices of the Osacians are not excluded, and not to be obliged to leave as members of the community. And, to tell you the truth, we thought there was a last door open, and so did the medical department tell us through the interpelation, didn't we? That the road to negotiation was open. But, you see, it wasn't like that. And, as it seems to me, that there is no such thing as a feast, or reading, euscriptively, that there is no cost, or some other reason which we do not know, that seems to walk, even in the Osar, to preserve the irregular practices which have been made for years. And this is very sad, very sad, what's going on. Well, we've tried our proposal, in our motion, very precise, very simple, and capable measures. Makeable. Too bad. It was a pity, wasn't it? That there isn't a way in there, because it can be done. And, tell me, at last, together... Now, seeing and observing, that we have agreed with the rest of the party a half-way proposition, and that this half-way proposition will be put into the vote. Ba, lehenengo puntuan adierazten dugu: "The Basque Parliament considers a step backwards in the search for transparency of the OPE model the decision taken by Osakidetza for the general bases of the OPE 2018-20019, ze OPE hauek will say 2018-2019koak, by which the courts of the categories themselves will decide who and how they will prepare the OPE own examinations". Bigarren points out: "Parliament considers that the Basque Government has taken no steps to ensure that suspicions of leaks in Osakidetza's OPEs can be avoided, ensuring that the process is traceable, important, and that those involved in it regain the confidence lost after the scandals of the previous OPEs". Hirugarrena: "Parliament urges the Department of Health to reformulate the model of examination and access to Osakidetza, to ensure an impartial selection that guarantees equal opportunities, maximum transparency and traceability of the process to give maximum guarantees to opponents, so that what happened in the public job offer 2016-2017 is not repeated. He therefore urged the Department of Health and Osakidetza, at the Osakidetza Sectoral Bureau, to resume negotiations, to agree with the trade unions on the functions to be performed by the VATP by the new job offers of Osakidetza, so that Osakidetza would not be an exception in the administration of the VAC, taking into account the functions it performs...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u10	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u11	... VATP in public employment offers in the rest of the fields".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u13	Good morning, congressmen. Mrs Ubera pointed out that this motion is discussed here a posteriori of the knowledge already of the convening of the OPE and of the decision of the Basque Government to put it in the way in which it is raised, and on which is based the criticism made by Mrs Ubera and which, of course, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita shares. A decision that is not only prior to this motion, but, in our view, of course, seems to be prior to the day Mrs Ubera called the councilwoman. It is said, there, that the Government has an open door to that negotiation. And this is the first thing my group, of course, wants to draw attention to. In view of what the representatives, the representatives of the workers and the workers of Osakidetza have said, that open door is an open door that tells the unions: "Go through here; or, if they want, do not go through." And too many times we have seen that this is the concept of negotiation of this government with the trade unions. We have often drawn attention to the fact that this is not a negotiation. It is the trade unions themselves that have often drawn attention to this issue in the committees of this Parliament, which the Government does, often reports, sit on tables. The Government often values these very tables. We share the value of these tables, but then we see that the reality is that they are used in this way and there is no negotiation. And we think this has happened. And that's why this is the first thing we think we need to draw attention to. An important issue that should have been negotiated, which should have meant that these OPEs would be convened with an agreement with the trade unions, which had not only will but concrete proposals. And yet, we have seen that the OPE is convened in a way... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...with an agreement with the unions, which had not only will, but concrete proposals. And yet we have seen that the OPE is convened in a unilateral manner and without taking into account those important issues raised by the trade unions. And at the bottom of the matter, we believe that this demonstrates a lack of will on the part of this Government to avoid doubts, suspicions about possible leaks, about possible irregularities in a matter as important as the public job offers in Osakidetza, with the background we have. With the massive scandal of the last OPEs. A major scandal that can't be denied. Beyond which... How they finally rule the courts, the scandal is capital. Everybody knows him. It cost the post to senior government officials. He cost the councilman, Mr. Darpón. Of course, he did not have any problems with his work. It's already perfectly placed in Keralty. That's not the problem. It cannot be denied that it was a major scandal and that it put on the table the weaknesses of the model, of how it was being done and that that was what had to be corrected. And the decision the government has made with these specific OPEs... They maintain the fundamentals of the previous model. And that is the fundamental criticism that we have been able to hear these days, specifically the Workers' Committees and the UGT, about the decision that the Government has taken. It maintains the fundamentals of the previous model. It maintains what, even on the part of the Office of the Prosecutor, said was where suspicions of screening could be substantiated. Maintaining the weight of evidence in court is not a good decision. And it doesn't change what has generated mistrust about those OPEs. On the role of VATP. If the Government says, well, the problem with VATP is that it has no capacity to do so. I believe that the Government has had time, from the scandals of these OPEs, to prepare the ground. If the problem is that VATP does not have the technical capacity to do what it should do, it will be the Government's obligation to train VATP to do that. And finally, I'm not going to spread out. The employment situation in Osakidetza all of us know that it is not the best. It's full of trouble. Of course, the highest temporality, the highest temporality in public employment in Euskadi, in the whole of Spain, is carried by Osakidetza. As a result of many policies, not only the replacement rates, to which I believe the groups supporting the Government in the amendment refer, problems of a labour nature, with all the sub-contracts of Osakidetza, which we see passing through this Parliament continuously. And, therefore, the debate, of course, for our group, is not whether these OPEs were necessary or not. Of course these OPEs are necessary. We want to make that position clear. Ope was needed. And, indeed, as the amendment of the groups that support the Government says, we must seize the opportunity now also with the replacement rates. And you have to make the most of it. But things had to be done right, because we have a unique situation, a product of those irregular OPEs that existed in the previous legislature. And the tools haven't been put in place to correct that. And therefore, as we say in the compromise amendment, there is no guarantee, in our view, of the fundamentals, the traceability of the processes. And above all, above all, that the people who are going to participate in these OPEs have the confidence, regain the confidence lost after those previous scandals. A chance has been missed, because there has been time. The Government has had time to put the tools in place to correct this. And he hasn't. And at the last moment it has pulled out the OPEs without that agreement with the unions, demonstrating once again its lack of negotiating will with the workers' representatives. Therefore, we, in this proposal by Mrs Ubera, have negotiated with her, because we thought that two things had to be done. First, this included, in the amendment that we have tabled... We thought it would be welcome for this Parliament to give the Basque Government that earshake on what it has assumed, which is what this decision entails. And then, in a more pro-active way, of course, to urge the Government to take those steps so that these issues are corrected and amended and that it agrees with the trade union centres, which have already put the proposals on the table. We already know the proposals. That is why we included them directly in our original amendment. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u15	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Again, we speak of the irregularity of a public offering OPE, especially irregularity or irregularity in 2016, and irregularity in 2017, not to repeat again. We discussed this matter in the previous law. We introduced them. The agreements were also signed. And we also saw political consequences. We tried a few measures, or here, in the legislature, we saw them. And it's our intention, as I said again... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... we tried them, or seen them here in the parliament. And it is our intention, as I have said again, not to repeat those irregularities, or what happened. As I said, the objective, I think shared by all in this House, is that the irregularities committed or detected, the numerous irregularities, we would say, in the 2016-2017 OPE, will not be repeated again. It should be noted that, without doubt, we are witnessing with these irregularities a black chapter in the history of Osakidetza, one of the institutions most valued by Basque citizens. Numerous screenings of examinations that obviously carried unfairly and did not respect the principles inherent in a public selective process that certain individuals held positions that did not correspond to them. We have also had the opportunity to discuss this subject, to study this subject with appearances, with specific reports from Professor Jiménez Asensio of the University of Oviedo. We have also had a final document with proposals which have been referred to, with measures, here referred to as corrective measures, to implement in future selective processes, in order to ensure that these irregularities or irregularities, which have occurred, are not repeated. It must be said that we are all aware of the consequences of irregularities in the political sphere. Obviously, it led to resignations and cessations. The resignation of the Director General of Osakidetza, the Director of Human Resources and the Councillor himself, Mr Darpón. There is no doubt that it is necessary, and in this new OPE which is to be seen, to establish the precise guarantees of transparency and impartiality in future selective processes. What cannot happen again is that we attend the show we attended at the 2016-2017 OPE, when the advisor himself, Mr Darpón, also told us that VATP was responsible for carrying out the tests of that OPE so that the process would be as clean as possible. Well, nothing further from reality. Of course, the situation in Osakidetza is delicate in terms of human resources and the lack of professionals. The high rates of temporaryity of the public health service have been cited here. And I would also add the replacement needs of healthcare professionals that we already have and that we are going to have in the coming years for the retirements that are going to happen. In that sense, I am not going to stop, I also had them to quote, but as some spokesman has done, the 37 corrective measures that are intended to be implemented in future OPEs are there. And what we want is to urge the Government, and we have done so in our full amendment, to take all the measures necessary to ensure strict compliance with existing legislation, as it could not otherwise be, both in procedural matters and in the composition of the courts. And, also, that how many measures are necessary to ensure, as I said earlier, the principles of equality, merit and access to the public service, with a special reference to impartiality and transparency throughout the process of public offers of employment that can be convened in the future, so that the numerous irregularities in the OPE are not repeated. We have a compromise amendment, I have to say that I have not participated in this compromise amendment, I have not signed it, but obviously we are not going to oppose it. We agree with some of the issues raised in the report, and others do agree that we would in some way brush them up. But we also understand that we share the goal of making things right. As for the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, I have to point out, we have to point out that, well, it means that necessary measures are taken and that the principles of equality, merit and capacity are guaranteed. It's obvious. And, well, obviously we're not going to vote against it either. But I do believe that this government has a responsibility on this occasion, as in the previous ones, but on this occasion, if we can, above all, the added responsibility of not casting any doubt on the convening of this OPE, which is on the table, or on future OPEs. Especially so that they do not repeat, as I said, what happened in the previous OPE, where the expectations of many seekers who saw their legitimate aspirations truncated by leaks are frustrated. And, ultimately, because we do not attend a process at all clean and exemplary. Therefore, since it is a black mark in the management of Mr Urkullu's government in the past parliamentary term, let us wait and be vigilant so that there is no hint of doubt as to the future public offers of employment that are being called by the government, as well as, in this case, by Osakidetza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u16	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u17	Thank you, Madam President. The Basque Socialists are committed to law enforcement, guarantees and principles that must govern any selective process in the public sector, in any one. Principles such as equality, merit, capacity, transparency... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... in any selective process in the public sector, in any. Principles such as equality, merit, capacity, transparency, objectivity and reliability, and I say this again, these principles must govern any of the selective processes, any of the public administrations' OPEs. And it must be made clear, I think it is important, that this is not negotiable. That is to say, it is something that must be demanded and that must be guaranteed, as it cannot be otherwise, above other short-term factors, such as whether or not there is agreement with trade union representation on the basis of the OPE, because the socialists, the socialists, we also like that things are done with consensus and negotiating with the trade union sphere. But let no one make a mistake, because here it is about mixing many things, there are people who have mixed too many things and I think it is important to remind them, to remind citizens something as simple as that many things can be negotiated, but compliance with legality can never be at any negotiating table, ever. And of course, it has never been, ever, the law is complied with and point and the one who does not comply with it, that gives explanations before the Justice, no more or less. And I don't like to focus on the obvious, but with what has been said here by some groups I think it will be necessary to start by remembering the most obvious. In the specific case of the approval of the general bases of the OPE of Osakidetza 2018-2019, which took place last week, I believe that no one is hiding that the ideal scenario would have been to reach the agreement at the sectoral table after a year of negotiation with the unions. That has not been the case, and I believe that we should all do a correction of this situation in the future, because the agreement is always the desirable thing. But the truth is that on this occasion the agreement has not been reached, and then what, then what is to be done, should we call the OPE or not? That is the first question we have to answer. And it turns out that in this particular case, the more than 3,000 places to call are, as you know, the sum of the replacement rate for 2018 and 19, that is, the number of posts that have remained vacant for retirements, for deaths, as well as a number of new posts. And it turns out that by the current regulations, you know it, if you don't call it before the deadline of 31 December, you are lost forever, you are lost forever. What's the alternative if you don't summon, lose more than 3,000 places for Osakidetza? I don't think anyone wants to say that, but sometimes here there are people who go up and forget the consequences of decisions that aren't made, stay in the theoretical realm, but then forget the consequences of decisions that aren't made. Therefore, it seems obvious that if the squares are not called and the squares are lost, and we do not want to lose the squares, we must call the OPE. Well, then called the OPE. Next step, there is no agreement with the unions, there is no agreement, I say again, it would have been the desirable thing and I think it has to be corrected for the future, because it is always the desirable thing in any process and we will all have to take a look at what our role has to be, right, but in this particular case there is no agreement with the unions, what model of selection process we have to follow. Well, you know that after Osakidetza's last OPE, there is still some of its terms in the courts, in this Parliament there was a big debate on this issue, a big debate. And in October 2019 the Department of Health presented this document that we all know, this document entitled New Selection Process Model, with 37 measures integrated in five areas. Well, the reasonable thing in our opinion is that the reference model is this, be that. And if you look at it, if you look at what has been announced, what we know, is that this is the model, because look, we are going to leave out the measures that are normative, the measures of a planning or general nature, 1 to 14, and we are going to focus on the most concrete ones and where it seems that the problem should be, so I hear them, which would be those relating to the scope of the courts and the composition and those referring to the examinations. And I'm willing to analyze them one by one, because I hear very general criticisms here, but then no one goes down to concrete detail to say where the problem is and that powerfully draws my attention and a medium viewer should get quite the attention. All cases relating to the scope of the courts and their composition, from 15 to 23, are complied with. If the courts are sizeable, from eight to six members, they know it, selection by lot and by objective criteria, the qualification and years of experience have been indicated and acceptance of the status of a member of the court will be mandatory. It has been announced that detailed and objective protocols, a code of conduct that everyone will have to sign and an ethical commitment will be included in the operational manual and will receive specific training. Professionalization and specialization are guaranteed, because to be a member of the court it must be fixed staff of at least three years of experience and the same degree as required for the category. Tell me what is not being done, what is the measure not being done, tell me, I would like it to be done. The areas covered by the examinations, from 24 to (?))37, for example, there are four measures that will already be considered when the operational manual is drawn up, as stated, to have a methodological framework, measure 24; that the preparation of practical evidence is not entrusted to a single person, measure 26; that an element is introduced at random in the final correction of evidence, measure 29, and that the correction is entrusted to at least three members of the court, measure 30. We continue, gender equality will be included in the agendas, measure 37. It is envisaged that if there is a large number of participants in the court, it can be supported by a commission of evaluators, measure 31. It seems, therefore, that the problem is not there, that we only have five measures left to analyse. I remember, the rest are all fulfilled. If you'll excuse me, we'll split those five into two groups. The first, those referring to reducing the weight of theoretical tests in relation to resident specialist professionals, and the measure referring to progressive introduction... the progressive introduction of tests complementary to those of theoretical knowledge, and these two will not be able to be included in the process. Yes, but why, because there is an agreement of the previous OPE with the unions that you can save the note for this 2018-19, how can you save the notes if the tests are not similar? [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... with the unions, which states that you can save the note for this one of 2018-19. How can notes be saved if the tests are not similar? How? Can you tell me? Can you tell me? Say it, say it. And then it seems that the focus has been on VATP. And this puzzles me deeply. I mean it. And I'm going to tell you why it puzzles me, because you can still make it clear to me. Firstly, it has already been said that the department has requested VATP, i.e. it is not on the part of the department that this application of the measure was not sought. And it was the VATP that talked about a technical impossibility to do the test tests. But he's gonna be in the process. He says... Mrs Ubera said that VAT is not going to be available in the process. Hey, section 31 of the Civil Service Act. It's just that VATP is a member of the court. The VATP has a member of the Court, such as trade union representation. It's just not possible. It's just that what he said is not true. Section 31 of the Civil Service Act is not possible. There's nothing more to say. The same Act, section 31 of the Civil Service Act. It indicates this in its first paragraph. And this you know. Citizenship doesn't have to know, either. But you do know that. The court has full functional autonomy. And we all know that. That is, we can advise you to go to a certain body at the time, for example, to prepare an examination and some tests. But the court can decide whether to listen or not. Do you imagine what they would say if a court decides to do a certain thing and the government gets in the way of saying, "Don't do this. Do this another"? What would I say? What would I say? And the fourth reason I'm confused. You know, you know that VATP doesn't have experts at all. The VATP relies on experts in other fields when developing tests. And here, and here, as announced, the members of the court themselves are going to be indicated that same path, that is, the final result is going to be the same. That's what puzzles me deeply. So, and with this I'm going to end. I believe that there is no doubt that the appropriate scope of this OPE would have been the agreement and reach agreement with the trade union sphere. That's right. And I say it again, that is the (...) that we all have to put ourselves, for forthcoming public offers of employment. But without agreement we have to make a decision. Do we get this OPE out or don't we get it out and lose 3,000 seats? If we take out the OPE, which is the decision we have made, because we are not willing to lose more than 3,000 places for Osakidetza, what model do we use? The one that has been brought to this Parliament in order to avoid issues such as those you have mentioned. And that model is being fulfilled today. So, I think they can infer a lot of things. We agree that the agreement with the unions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u18	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u19	Yes, President. I'm done right now. But from the disagreement with the unions illegality was made, I am sorry, but I don't think it can (...). Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u21	Good morning, everyone. We have a great conscience about what Mr. Rico has said. I'd like to (... ) That the health Department and Osabanus have fulfilled their engagements, and that they have attempted to perform the new model of selection processes in the document, in that document which Signor Rico has shown on the table, to perform the engagements which are given, and apply most of the measures specified in 2018 and 2019 to the public employment offer. The chief physician explained to you, Mrs. Ubera, what measures they've placed on the table and why they couldn't take it, as Mr. Rico reminded you today. We've been working for a year now. We've been negotiating on the sactorial table for a year. So, the will has been willing to negotiate. Several different measurements have been attempted to agree with the unions. Even the chief physician reminded them of how to form a jury, how the jury should act, how the evidence or examinations should be performed, and so on. But, alas, there could not be an agreement. There could not be an agreement. And it has been the decision of unions, we respect them, but we clearly find that it is essential to make a call for the 2018-2019 period before the end of the year. No more calls can be postponed. In fact, for what Mr. Rico has explained. Apart from what has been explained in the chapters, we do not know at least what has been the attitude of unions throughout the whole course of negotiation, or what has induced them not to accept the proposal of the Osacides. "En esespido, señor Hernández, no sabemos quien ha dicho lo de "o passos por aquaí o no passas." Ninostros sleep unconocemos. But we don't want to lose the job at Osaform. And we must remember that, owing to the limits established by the repositions, unless the choice be completed within three years, the opportunity of providing those squares will be lost once and for all. It is, therefore, indispensable to call on the stability of the Osapians and the co-ordination of the planet. That's what matters to us. There are 3.535 squares. For instance, there are many of them who have been led to strengthen their first-rate attention. 322 family medical square and pediatrician (302?) the square will be placed. It is therefore necessary that we lose no opportunity to fill these squares at once, and also, as we know, in what condition we are in. The chief physician, Mrs. Ubera, also explained that IVAP will participate in EPE of 2018-2019. In fact, he explained to you the IVAP with several other administrations... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... That IVAP will participate in EPEana of 2018-2019. Moreover, he explained to you that as IVAP does with several other administrations, he will provide a technical assistance to complete the selection with all its guarantees. He'll offer technical resistance. Another question is, that he has refused to study medical specialities, because it is normal in such specific categories, because he has not been technically qualified to study such qualified specialities (... .). We don't know where you come from that the IVP asked for more time or conditions to be offered to Osarides or more time and conditions. But what we clearly have is that IVAP will participate in this EPE. And if he says no to do the exams, at least we respect that decision. As far as Mr. Hernández's speech and correction is concerned, I don't know why you've been saying it over and over again, so you've got it in the middle-direction correction that it's a step back to decide which of the jury at the election process, and how you're going to do your exams, the contents of the evidence. We don't know, we don't understand why that's going to be a footstep. You're asking us to negotiate with the unions and agree to it for IVAP to keep the professionals from getting involved. That's how you picked it up. That way there won't be any suspicion of the leak.' And transparency, they say, will be guaranteed. I don't really know what you've made up your mind about, and what you've been doing here today. I mean, from this outfit of yours, every member of the Osarists is suspect. According to what you've said, the members of the Osage are unable to study, because they're not allowed to participate in the examination, because there's a suspicion that the leak is going to be leaked, just because they're working for the Osar. Is that really your planning? Is that what you think about the professionality and honesty of the workers of the Osacombs? Look, the chief physician explained it, and the experts who came to the legislature, mentioned Mr. Jiménius, the intermediary, the University of Ovido, were also with us. After having made a summons in accordance with the law and regulations which is now established, election is the responsibility and responsibility of the proceedings. These are the selection organs. And it is for them to decide what kind of examination will be made. The contents of the examinations which the jurors prepare for themselves, or the contents of the external agents, hear, and demand an institution which they prefer. Therefore, the suspicion cannot be extended, above all, to the professionals of Osakidetza who, in the end, are going to compose the courts. They are the selective bodies to which both the Basic Staff Regulations and the Basque Civil Service Act, as also recalled by Mr. Rico, in his article 31, entrust, among other things, the main function of preparing and correcting the examinations. But it's not just a legal requirement. The Ararteko report or in Mr Jiménez Asensio's own contributions, when they were in Parliament, also underlined the importance of the courts and the need to respect their functional autonomy. They pointed out that there was a need to reinvigorate the courts. On the other hand, you, in your original amendment and in which you have agreed, have had sex with the EH Bildu group, in your entry, question the credibility of anyone who is going to be part of the courts at the 2018-2019 OPE. And you demand that the exams be done by the VATP, without anyone participating who is related to Osakidetza or who is alien to Osakidetza, in case. That is what he is saying in the amendment. If not, review the text. And that's what you come to say: that no one has a relationship or is alien to Osakidetza. We've talked about it before, look at it. Membership has taken several measures to ensure that the principle of equality will be fulfilled as much as possible. Mr. Rico reviewed them one by one. Of these the chief physician spoke as an example. The chief physician, too, had already mentioned them in his interpelation: To reduce the number of the jurors by lot, to appoint their fellow-jurors by lot. Besides, among the professionals of each special or category, who are only three years old, it is necessary to accept the code of conduct. The jury will have to accept code of conduct. They must know the rights and duties of the jury. The formation and technical support will be offered during the whole course of the process. And that's where IVAP will have an important role. IVAP will participate. He'll help the jury. So let's not confuse things. Let's not make the jury suspect that we're working for Osamate. Let's not even continue to make political use of this subject, because that's what's happening here. And that's why we're trying to tell the Medical Department and the Commanders, because we think there's no way to lose a job. Thus, in short, we protect the decisions which must have been adopted to accept the appeal of public employment as soon as possible. And we have also desired that he should apply the choice of the measures received in the document by the new process, so that they may be supported by the public offers of the next, together with the principles of equality, merit, merit, and ability, with which also the principles of transparency, objectivity, and trust. After all, we have every confidence not only in the health department and Osarists, but also for the workers of the Osar. And we don't think it's fair to suspect them before we even begin with the selection processes. So we vote for our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u23	We didn't suspect anyone here. This is not about trust. I've already said it on the first round, and it's a matter of consideration to do things right... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... no one here suspects any one; this is not a matter of trust, I have already said in the first round. Here, it is a pity that things should be done well, that things should be corrected, that all the resignations which have been otherwise, all the cessees are of no use. Here, in the government, it is a duty of co-operation to take the measurements and to compare them with those measures. That's the game. No one here has ever questioned the names of the professional members of the Council, but what has been put in question is a test model, a way of testing. And no one here has ever questioned the job. The subject is here to be diverted, and is to say that there are employments in the balance, and it is only to justify the fact that these stations are uncertain, that they do not change an OPE model. Sad, really. And here there's no one against calling the OPEs, we all know how many times we've worked here, to push us out of our jobs for the job we made. So there's no question of the OPE call here. The question here is that a model of OPE is to be met with direct measurements. For, as Mr. Rico has said very well, there are certain conditions here that are not capable of negotiation; we must here require demands to ensure both impartiality and impartiality, to ensure equality. All right, Mr. Rico. And for this purpose the appearance must be assured that it is the most objective. And Mr. Kerman Orbezák has brought us to our house the argument given to union unions on the sactorial table in Osactorial so as not to be a testable. But in the starting-point at this moment, we need the most objective examination to remove the subjective, to make it possible to re-establish confidence and give as many assurances as possible. So the argument given has neither head nor foot. Look, here it is in an unprecedented state in the Osapartics, in an unprecedented situation. Before summer, the head of IVAP, suddenly doesn't know what happened, the cesea, is identified with the declarations. I shall not relate to IVAP, when he was announced at his own time with IVAP, as a guarantee of transparency, of impartiality, when he was betrayed. All the unions, without precedent, are out of line. And does all this contribute to the change in the Director of the Human Resources for Osarists? We don't know what happened, he resigned, he suffered, he's changed. And I think this situation ought to make the government think about it, to the Oscars, the Health Department. What's going on? What happened to Osabast alone? Because what we've seen today is that we've come back to our early casilla. I remember when the case blew up, the government tried, right? , the jury is autonomous, it's their responsibility. That is to say, the Government attempted to banish all cares, to avoid its cares. Then, all he had to do was face the situation, and there were a number of reports that came out to-day, and then we saw that the broadcast came and so on, even though at first he tried to escape. But now we come again with the same argument of beginning 2018: the jury, the whole business is to leave it to the jury again. And the government is trying to escape its responsibility, whether it is a test model, to change the OPE model, to guarantee it. And again we go back to our old cassilla. Look, we've been dealing with the Osar's offer case with irregularity since the beginning, leaving the headlines aside. We were wet at first. We proposed several measures, and tried to negotiate with the government. I've also got those measurements that you gave Darpón in 2018 and they talked to him. We even tried to negotiate. Because it was our priority not only to explain what had happened from one point to another, but to prevent it from happening again. And it seems to us that we are now in this phase, in order that we should not again take measures. But it wasn't possible. We even suggested a power to get ahead of us, which took a lot of time. But, well, the development of power was quite so, although we behaved with great patience. But this time we were asking for something very simple, very simple and real, or at the moment, as the Medical Department and Government said, to agree with the unions, with the workers. That was the government's commitment. That was the commitment. And that commitment will never be fulfilled. And the Oss and Government should consider what it is. Because the message which he transmits to society is very serious. Message is: if here there is a desert of impunity, they are protected by those who practise these practices.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u24	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u25	That's the message the government delivers. And besides, with the negionist conduct of the government, the Health Department, and the Osadic manner, he doubts all EAE OPEs, doubting all EAE's OPEs. Because the government that philosophizes is aware of the protection of the government, and here the government is concerned, not with the jury or the workers, and no one can compromise the names of the professional members of the profession, or trust.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u26	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u27	But here the key is pattern, pattern, and measure. And that's responsible for them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u29	Yes, I am drawn to one thing from the debate. We are told by Mr Orbegozo, above all, that we suspect the workers of Osakidetza. That is, when, in this case, a parliamentary group or two parliamentary groups through a compromise, of course... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... We suspect the workers of Osakidetza. That is, when, in this case, a parliamentary group or two parliamentary groups, through a transaction – of course, that is what my parliamentary group is proposing – bring the position that they are listening to the workers, it turns out that we are suspecting the workers. I don't know if... I don't know, you look like you don't understand me. We have brought into our amendment what the workers' representatives are saying, what the workers' representatives are asking for and the criticism that the workers' representatives in Osakidetza have made to the Basque Government regarding the decision taken. Therefore, the only way I have to understand that we do this, because we suspect the workers, is that they themselves suspect themselves. That is not a reality, Mr Orbegozo, and you know it perfectly well. The workers they have raised are measures to prevent the suspicions of leaks that we know have occurred in the past. And you have taken the debate to an issue that I mentioned in my previous speech, which I understood was not the debate. Mr. Rico has done this, he says, "if there is no agreement, we have to call the OPE, or not." All right. I don't question that at any time. I have already said this in my previous speech: yes, the OPEs have to do them and we have to take advantage of the time we had in relation to replacement rates, etc. That is not the debate for us. We have not come here, we have not made an amendment calling for the decision to make OPE, but for the way in which it has been done. The way has been done in relation to two elements which I have put on the table: what I understand as a lack of sufficient negotiation with the unions to reach agreement; and in relation to very concrete processes which are conditioned by serious things that have happened in the past, the irregularities of the previous OPEs of Osakidetza, and which required an effort, I believe, by the Basque Government, of sufficient effort so that there would be no suspicion that similar things could happen in the past in this process. You have said that there have been changes. I will not deny the changes that have been made. You have told some of them, but the fundamental one, and the one that bases the criticism of the unions and the one that has led the unions not to sign that agreement, and we have heard it, that has not been solved. The real problem. You're asking us to do something, Mr. Rico. The specific problem of the role of VAT, etc. The Government says: "It is the VATP that tells us that it does not have that technical capacity to intervene in the way it should in the examination processes, etc." And what we put forward is that the government knew this was going to happen. The Government knew perfectly well that this was going to happen. Doesn't the government know VATP? Doesn't the government know what the Osakidetza selection processes have been like so far? The Government could have gone to work to ensure that the VATP was in a position to do so. Because, in addition, you say, "you've been negotiating with the unions for a year." I understand that the trade unions' approach has not been the day the Government announces how it will do so. The trade unions' approach would be at the table from the outset. And I am drawn to the attention that above all the groups that support the Government, or in this case the Basque Nationalist Party, which knows nothing about the position of the trade unions but what has happened in the media. That's what got my attention. First, because you are part of the government, which is supposed to have been talking to the unions that year. And second, because I understand that the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group does not live in isolation in an office and has relations with trade unions and will speak with trade unions. And the unions have not woken up the morning when the sectoral table met for the last time and where the decision was later announced by the Basque Government. They did not get up that morning to make the criticism and make their approach. His approach was already prior to that. Therefore, it seems to us that this issue has not been resolved, and that the way in which the OPEs are made will be a step backwards in relation to those possible suspicions, so that what has happened in previous OPEs is not repeated. And it doesn't give guarantees of trust to the people who are going to introduce themselves to those OPEs. But, of course, my group does not question whether OPEs have to be made. That is not the debate, and it is something I have of course wanted to make clear since my first speech.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs Garrido, the representative of the Basque Popular Groups has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u31	Well, very briefly, to respond to some demonstrations that have taken place in this rostrum. Regarding Mr. Rico, tell him that, obviously, of course, the law has to be complied with, but it is that in OPE 2016-2017 the law was not complied with, and the principles inherent in a process of selection of these characteristics were not complied with, a public process to the principles of equality, merit and capacity. And what is clear is that, seeing the results and living the people who took the first positions in the results of the tests that were carried out, there was a clear treatment of favor and neither these principles, nor transparency, nor was it a clean process. So much so that political responsibilities were assumed. That is, it was a real scandal, and first-class political responsibilities were assumed, with resignations, cessations of the Director General of Osakidetza, of the Director of Human Resources and of the adviser himself. I do agree with you that sometimes the agreement is not possible, but, of course, you have to try. And yes..., to Mr Orbegozo, of course, whatever he wants, this is always recurring in addition to the argument that you use not only here today in this rostrum, but throughout the multiple debates that we have had in the past legislature, that you cannot sow suspicions about professionals. Not at all, no one here has raised suspicions about professionals. Here, for not doing things right and because a government hasn't... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... You can't sow suspicions about professionals. Not at all, no one here has raised suspicions about professionals. Here, for not doing things right and because a government has not done things right, what has been cast of doubts is the management that was made of this process of selecting the 2016-2017 OPE from a government that did not guarantee that they would ensure the principles that should govern a public process, as I said, of this kind. Therefore, suspicions by professionals nothing else is that there are professionals, obviously, who have not done things right, and in that sense, this issue is judicialized and if someone has incurred criminal responsibilities, because the courts will rule as appropriate. But it is up to us in this House, and especially the Government, to ensure that future selective processes are absolutely clean and transparent and that there is no suspicion of doubt. And in that regard, I believe that this debate, although repetitive, serves to remind the Government of certain issues that are obvious, for of course, welcome be.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u32	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u33	Thank you, Madam President. I want to be... It seems to me that legality and transparency are not negotiated at any sectoral table, that is, legality and transparency have to be fulfilled in any selective process, whether it be that of Osakidetza, that of any department, that of any institution, is governed by the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos or the People's Party, that is so. The law is to enforce it, and absolutely agree, who does not comply with it in the courts. And look, let the courts direct the responsibilities and let us also abide by what the courts say, (?) as well as the fact that it has to be remembered in this debate. Man, Mrs. Ubera, I that you have wanted to put the headlines aside, that the message that is being sent to the citizenry is dangerous, because look, this last, I agree, the message that you are sending to the citizenry is very dangerous, because it is a theory of permanent, permanent conspiracy in which there is a presumption of guilt for everything. I'd be trembling if my name comes out in a court draw right now and I hear you, I'd be trembling. And that generates it with statements like the ones they've done here, like the ones they've done here, and that's the way it is. No one has questioned the role of the courts, he says, since it has seemed so. Mrs Ubera, you have looked a lot, and a lot, you have looked a lot, to the point that I have a question. I was talking about it with some MP on my bench, what's your alternative, what's your choice, what's your choice, what's your choice? Man, there's section 31 of the Basque Civil Service Act, and I've stayed here, which in the end does not stop being the same (?), because it says the same thing. The courts are there, they have full functional autonomy, full functional autonomy, and you know, and if I don't tell you, but you know, you know, we can advise a court that because of the particular specialty of proof, you go to an external consultancy. And the court in that full functional autonomy can decide what it creates, full functional autonomy. And you're telling me, no, it's just that the role, the role of VATP, is that you're trying... listen, the department has already moved it to this rostrum that has been put in touch with VATP, that VATP has talked about technical impossibility. By the way, you govern City Hall, you know that VATP is not to Osakidetza the first institution I have told you not to ask in municipal areas, ask in municipal areas, just like in one of those that govern you too. However, this is what they put the shadow of suspicion, that conspiracy theory. There were resignations, there were... We don't know if... if you don't know, don't say it. If he doesn't want to create suspicion, he says, "I don't come to create suspicion." Well, it seems like a lot, it seems like a lot. Then, they were telling us from Elkarrekin We can, they were telling us, it is not the debate that if there is no agreement it has to be fulfilled, it has to be taken out of the OPE, because you believe and agree that it has to be done. Okay, but then he uses a circular argument, he says to me: I criticize it is that it has been done without agreement. Man, let's see, yes, he got out because there was no agreement and he criticizes me that it's done without agreement. Yes, it is that one thing is a consequence of the other, it does not serve me as an argument, that circular argument does not serve, it does not serve, it is not real, it is not a real argument. But, well, I recognize something important. You have said that you do agree that the OPE has to be taken out because you do not want those three thousand peak places to be lost and we share that and it is the cost of having to make decisions, because I have already told you and there you will not win me, Mr Hernández, from the Socialist Party we like that there is agreement with the unions, at least like you, at least like you, I will not say more, at least like you. But when you're ruling and there's no deal and you're going to lose 3,000 seats, you have to make decisions. And besides you know it, because of course, then, and this both EH Bildu and Elkarrekin We can when I ask you for concreteness I get the letter that the problem is the model, the problem is the system. Look, the anti-system thing no longer, no longer hangs, no longer hangs. That of the anti-system from an adequate seat, sharing the Governing Council the Government of Spain, no longer hangs, does not hang. Therefore, and with this I conclude, Madam President, I believe that from this process we all have to take some duty away from each other. The first, in any selective process, the ideal scenario is to reach an agreement with the... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... We all have to take out some duty than another. The first, in any selective process, the ideal scenario is to reach an agreement with the trade union sphere. That's obvious. And that is a duty that, in the future, we must put ourselves, both the government and the trade unions, to explore those agreements. But I'm going to ask you one thing. If you don't want to create suspicion, please don't believe them. It's very simple: don't believe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u35	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Well, on suspicion. Say, I really don't know, even when I took the last word, I asked you the question, didn't I? When you really thought about Aber, when you introduced the corrections, what were you planning? Izan ere, gastelaniazko zuen bertsioan, zuzenketan, esaten duzue, bigarren puntua, edo bigarren eskaria Jaurlaritzari, "that the tests of OPEs can be prepared by the VATP through personnel outside Osakidetza, so that the suspicion of leaks can be avoided". Hau da: If the tests are performed by Osakidetza, there will be suspicion of leaks. It's just that simple. What you have asked for, what you are proposing is so simple. If you are telling me that you are speaking on behalf of the trade union representatives, or on behalf of the trade unions representing the workers of Osakidetza, it is that you are acknowledging that the workers' representatives themselves do not trust the workers of Osakidetza. I mean, if the exams make them personal that's from Osakidetza, there's gonna be a suspicion of leaks. Literally, I repeat the phrase again, so that it is recorded that you have said that "the tests of OPEs can be prepared by the VATP through personnel other than Osakidetza, so that the suspicion of leaks can be avoided". That's as clear as I can tell. We don't share that vision. Courts are necessary; they are a selection body that is reflected in basic and autonomous regulations. They are a selection body made up of Osakidetza's own workers. Why are we extending the suspicion that there will be leaks because the courts are in charge of conducting the exams? Ez dugu ulertzen, benetan, ez dugu partekatzen. Eske, iruditzen zaigu, heifer, bear larria jarra hori. Larvae bear. Susmoak, susmoak dona ari zarete hedatzen; bidegabeki ari zarete hedatzen. Arazoak egon zirela aurreko OPEan? Bear wave, arazoak egon zirens. Zenbat? Zenbait espazialitétan? Zenbat hauteaketa prozeduratan egon ziren arazoak? Hori gaur ez dozu aipatu, adibidez; inoiz ez dozu aipatzen. On the other hand, as to measurements, Mr. Rico has defined them one by one. Even in the previous interpelation, the chief physician mentioned them. You don't talk about it. what concrete measure it is applying. No, it's all because IVAP won't do his exams. I hear that's the problem. At least that's what I've heard: Some union reps say the problem is that IVAP won't investigate. I hear that's the problem. Why? You say it here. You speak on behalf of the representatives, and you have put in the amendment that the exams be made for non-Osakidetza staff; literal, eh?, I'm not inventing anything. And not only that, but they also say it's a step back, because the courts themselves in the categories will decide who and how they will prepare the exams for the next OPE. Who are the courts? Who make up the courts? So we see it here, or we don't agree with what you say. What we see is that, funk, the Medical Department, the Osacides, has been engaged to introduce or apply those direct measures to this OPE, and well, it couldn't have been with those union representatives. Okay, that's the way it is. But there's another thing about the suspicions, leaks, etc., that you're talking about here, isn't it? So, as I said when I took the previous word, we will hold our correction and vote against all the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u36	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. End of discussion, we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together with the middle-direction that the Podemos-Nozzers have signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 25; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u37	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; in favour 6; in the contrary, 59; abstaining, 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u38	So it's not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists-Euz patriots. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 72, 40; the contraries, 19; the abstainments, the 13ths, the white ones, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u39	So it's accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "To discuss these causes at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: The reason is, you've been introduced together by Podemos, not according to the law of the Antice, to beg for hire, and the motive, by Erasez de Egila de Ramos.... "... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... The Moment, introduced together by you in Martíne together by Podemos, a member of the Antices, a hired man, and a motive, introduced by Erasez de Egilaz, a member of the House of Ramos, in order to change the rental policy." It's your turn, Mr Martín, to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u40	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. As I said in this interpelation of this motion later on, my intention is not at the present moment to make a general revision of the political housing, nor to re-view the data we have discussed in so many controversies, because, well, well, we can discuss this plan for many moments. We know how great the problem of the housing is in our society, not only here, in the state, but also in the degree of Europe. But especially here, what a market-place we have, the size of the rent market, the price of rents, the kind of rents are paid, especially in the capitals and the great nations. And we also know that in the past ten days the politics have started, from Euskon and from other administrations. But at the moment, we can say that it's not enough. Gaurko egun Honetan gaia, curry era bai, errinta berri bati buruz doa. A new tool to be launched throughout the State thanks to the future Housing law that will soon be discussed in the Congress of Deputies, thanks to a law that is promoted thanks to platforms in defense of the right to housing and also thanks to the unions of tenants and tenants, and also thanks to the pressure of our parliamentary group in the Congress, of Unidad Podemos, that law will see the light. Eta lege horrek ekarriko duena da Euskadin ez daukagun konpetentzia berri bat, éta izango dueen konpetentzia berri bat. More skills and capacity to intervene in the market. We've proposed more than once, we've also asked you to make direct political interference around the rent's price as well. He can do it by public politics, and it is done in some cases, but we believe that it is necessary to make the right interference of the market. To do this thought, and so far we had not succeeded in intervention, and so far we had not succeeded. Until now, or until the week before, there has always been an answer that there weren't competitions. You know, both pubes, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like... you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have fought in all the areas in which we are in order to have a new competition, a new tool, which is that of a regulation of the prices of the private rental market in Euskadi and the whole state. This law will be able to declare the areas of... tense housing market and can also take extraordinary measures to freeze, to contain the prices of rents that are also in the hands of small owners. And more importantly, a system of tax incentives is also proposed for small owners to lower their rental prices. And in addition, what is even more important, you can, you will be able to lower the prices in the houses of the vulture funds and the big forks, that is, in those owners who have more than ten houses. Surely my coalition and the social groups would have provided and we would have liked that what is going to be approved in the Congress of Deputies, and we are still in time to improve it, far beyond, but we have a reality that can be touched with our hands and that... and we will have a new competition in Euskadi, which will be able to be used in Euskadi in order to be able to declare those areas of the tense residential market set out in Article 18 of the preliminary draft law, when the costs of rent and basic supplies exceed more than 30% of the income of the family units, and also where price increases are given, as determined by the preliminary draft law. That is why, in that question, which was not the first, there have been more questions, more interventions in commissions, we were asking the Basque Government to act, that is why we were asking the Basque Government to put on batteries, etxeko lanak egin behar direlako. Law now Statu milako law bat da, bai, baina erkidegoen borondate politicokoaren aplikatuko da edo ez da aplikatuko. Eta gaur, gaurko honetan, eta, gero, hurrengo, well, 29 year old izango dugun Etxebizitza Planaren eztabaidan ére aukera izango dougu honetaz eztabaidatzeko, gaurko honetan Legebiltzar honetatik aterako dena da konpromiso politicako argi bat alokiruen prezioaren aldeko konpromiso politicako bat. And I have to thank the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party in that regard for the debate we have had. It seems to us very important that the political signal coming out today is that the Basque Government is starting tomorrow to do the work it has to do in order to be able to declare the tensioned rental market areas, which will be done in collaboration with the outside parliaments, which will do the statistical work that is necessary in order to then be able to declare those tensioned market areas that we have included in that agreement, which will take into account the level of income of families based on income, which will take into account the prices of the rental market, which will also take into account the supply, the level of supply... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... which will take into account the prices of the rental market, which will also take into account the supply, the level of housing supply in each area and, above all, which will also include the basic vital supplies of a dwelling, as set out in the law itself, the preliminary draft law itself. Because it is essential that we include not only rent, but also at the price of supplies, in the determination of tensioned rental market areas. That's why, as it's a step forward, we celebrate. We'll probably have to do even more, we'll probably probably have a little more of the discussion of the Housing Plan on the 29th. But what we did get from us today was a political message and an order to do my homework. It is true that it is not easy to operate, for this reason there have been so many moments of tension, even in the state-level area, around this law. But it's a reality, and what's imported to us is that it has a new competition from Euka to intervent the housing market, to limit and regulate rents. And that's a message and good news for us, a new competition, more subversive for the Basque housing policies, for the housing policies of the housing. And that's how he stays in the middle that we signed today, and that's why he's happy. I say again, and I repeat, that the agreement would certainly have liked us to have gone beyond it, but what comes out are duties for the Government, to start all the work so that as soon as the law allows it, that it will be, that we are sure it will be soon, that it can be put, that the areas of the stressed rental market can be declared and that we can start to intervene in a direct way in the private housing market, regulating, freezing and lowering prices. That is what this parliamentary group has been demanding for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u41	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u42	Good morning, Congressman. Thank you, congressmen. I want to start my speech with a statement today. It's just as much a scandal as the Araba, the Biscaia and the gym, and the abuse prices of the rent market don't help at all. The end of all public Institutions ought to be as much to be reduced as to give, to make use of the necessary measures, to make words for words. But it is not a chance that this assertion has been repeated a thousand times in the mouth of both political, political, &c. What is said may remain in empty words, because words cannot change and overturn the state. On the contrary, this assertion may be made use of in advance. The crude reality of the youth has shown us the problems of spending our months and years, the impossibility of access to the housing. And that, thanks to the presidency of employment, it is necessary to redistribute public policies. The status of the young people is in the center of the political agenda, the young people form a political agenda. It's now about marking appointments on the schedule for the transformation. The situations that are unreserved, because the lives that are vital are increasing over and over again. And to-day we wanted to bring in a measure necessary for the support of these young men, and for the exercise of their right to the housing: the rents must necessarily be restricted to rents, as in the case of the unstable and scandalous private trades. Therefore the question is clear: Is the Eusterian law, Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzian tenants willing to establish the rights of the American tenants, and to limit and stop the abuse prices given in the private rent market for once? It is clear that it is also to speak of high rentals. First, that of Araba, Biscaia, and the majority of the Gipurian young men, who live in rent by ten, six young men live in rent. So the rental policy is related to pretty evacuations. On the other hand, it is impossible to satisfy the wants of all the young. Thirdly, because they were only 13%, 13.13, in the 2020, in the Araba, Bizia, and Gipuzia. The high prices of rent and insufficient economic capabilities do not allow to be given. I mean, we have a huge problem. Young women don't emancipate, why? Because they earn a misery in precarious wages that they don't give to live, much less to pay the rents that are in the clouds, while some are profiting from it with which it is a basic right of all people: the right to decent housing, which it puts in the Spanish Constitution as well. And the headlines in this case are clear. El Correo said a couple of weeks ago: "The crisis sinks to historical minimums the emancipation of the under 30s." And it's obvious. A clear cause is the instability of the private rental market, which rises and rises, and booms. Even blow us all over the face to the young, but also to the not so young. Rent homes are a luxury, and a right can never be a luxury. The rent costs are high, all record's over. The climb was 20%, but in the gym, for instance, that climb came to 30%. The average price of a private rent is 1.049 euros, 1.049 euros. Ours is the third autonomy of the state, the most expensive community in the business of the housing. For these prices it is very difficult, but, for instance, the young people of Araba, Biscay, and Gipuz have thirteen thousand raw wages for each other during the year. That means 1,000 euros in 14 pay. It doesn't go to 1,000 euros, rather. All the conditions required to develop a worthy life, so we don't have Armaba, Biscay, and Gipuz... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...that means. It doesn't go to 1,000 euros, rather. All the conditions necessary to raise a worthy life. So we don't have our armor on the Araba, Usca, and the gym. The increase of the price of the rent has also been the subject of many headlines, and here has been a subject which has often been discussed. Every portion of life crosses the prices of income. But the consequences of this elevation are not private. They're collective. And they're not just the youngest. They belong to the whole police. The price of rent determines where you live and where you would like to live. It determines who you live with and who you would like to live with. The price of rent determines the order of our cities and neighbors. The middle and outer parts of the city are thus distinguished, and the physical conditions of the one and the other of the other are widely different, and the poor are followed by this dimotomy. And if we have this landscape, we have two options for today: agree to the policies which will have the ambition to place men in the centre, and to place them in the hope of waiting and coming. We're talking about making it urgent. That's what we're doing. And that's where we've worked in this region. First, by accepting the Housing Act of 2015, and continuing the same year, we presented ourselves to the housing performance as a law to limit the rates of housing performance... arguing. And now, at this unstable moment, it's an excellent opportunity to grasp and limit the rentals we've got here. Create and apply a brave law. Don't wait for Madrid. And we have enough reasons, we think, because the moment is special. On the one hand, the housing Act that comes from the Spanish State may be an option. And that option is on the table. But considering what we have hitherto known, it is impossible to conform to the reality of the EAE. This law is not enough for the reality here. The law of Spain refers to great owners, but their number of rents, for instance, is 10% here. That is to say, the owners who have more than ten houses are only 34 of the Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzia. And in total, they have 1,10 houses. It's good to limit them. But we can't content ourselves with this. Because the rent here is 110,500 houses. And the great majority of the tenants will turn their backs if only they are confined, if only the greatest masters are confined. The majority will continue to be slaves to the increase of the housing prices, and the high prices of the rent will be overcast. We have tools and roads, and we've seen that, and we know it, and we've proved it. We brought a law in February 2021, that law I mentioned. And to-day also this law may be made use of. We have an excellent opportunity to make an excellent answer to one of the most important concerns which are being thrown into our society, to-day and to look forward to it. On the street the rental is heard to be something stupid, that it can't go on like this. We have a chance to regulate a private lease that stifles us, for the sake of those who live in rent. We can offer certainties for all of us who live here without waiting for anyone, but Madrid might not wait for a law to come. The path page is marked. And all we have to do is start. To limit rents is to act efficient housing policies, but it also allows us to make useful young people's politics. That's exactly the language. When we say integrated politics, that is, just like that. The growth of private market is only valid if it continues to increase and increase its population. You can't understand how to pay the rent, for example, the Eusk0s are making money with programmes like the Young Guy, but to refuse any problems that can be settled without money, to turn your back on every moment. The endless growth of rents, the lack of rent control, stifles young, citizen, many families, and many of them. The decision of the border today will bring people to better life tomorrow. We're talking about giving assurances. We're talking about how much it costs to imagine the future, these political and historical moments, to give certainty. It has been against this that we shall only continue to increase the uncertainty of all the tenants who live in a state of uncertainty. Instead of using our own instruments here, you will continue to look once more at Madrid, who form the majority in this legislature. Our people will see once more that they will decide in Madrid the things that can be decided here, because we have the potential here. We know, using other formulas, that we have options to limit the rent prices in the Araba, Biscay, and Typuzia. Because if it doesn't, it doesn't. But we had options.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u44	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Indeed, as Mr Martínez has explained, the preliminary draft housing law contains, among many other issues, a rental control system that will allow for legally secure operation in the rental market. In its current version, the definition of tensioned zones will rest on two large variables. One seeks to collect the financial effort of households, for access to rented housing. And the other seeks to measure the deviation of rental prices from inflation. However, in order to determine the financial effort, the relevant information is derived from the IRPF, both in terms of rents declared by the tenants and in terms of the income level of the taxpayers. Crossing this information with the land register, you can georeference the price level and financial effort of access to rent at any disaggregated territorial level. This statistical operation, and its public dissemination, has been assumed by the INE which, based on the data of the State Tax Agency, references of bonds of lease contracts and of its own georeference systems, has been able to disseminate very relevant information on the prices and financial effort of access to rent in 2018... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and its own georeference systems, has been able to disseminate very relevant information about prices and financial effort to access rent in 2018. But this information exchange and this information dissemination does not reach our autonomous community, where fiscal and catastrophic competition rests in the outside administrations, so, in order to be able to implement the housing policy and the correlative requirement of provision of valid statistical information, irrelevant in the issue of determining the financial effort of households, we need the participation and collaboration of the outside administrations, the Eustat and the Housing Department itself. Because the Department of Housing has very broad and consistent statistical information, and is always willing to improve and cross it in the areas that are desired. In this regard, we reaffirm the willingness to work and to move forward in the generation of a valid statistical system, consistent, transparent and accessible, available to Basque society to implement the new housing policies that may come. And for all this, we are pleased with the agreement reached with the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group and Mr Martínez's willingness to achieve it, since with the compromise amendment presented we laid the foundations of the work to be developed in order to enable the public administrations and the Basque economic and social actors to have the statistical instruments required by the new housing policies that come to us. With regard to the motion submitted by the EH Bildu group, as I have mentioned earlier, the preliminary draft state housing law contains, among other issues, a system of rent control operating on its own constitutional powers, and a genuine system could be created, with full legal certainty for all agents and actors, should it be adopted in terms similar to those known to them, that would allow for a legally secure operation in the rental market. We therefore find it neither efficient nor effective to promote immediate legal action to enable rental control in Euskadi with the minimum legal certainty required in public action. Right now there is an opportunity linked to the State Housing Act which seems to be timely and necessary to go through, since it will make it possible to clarify the jurisdictional framework of the various administrations and the legal changes that will result from it. It is therefore a complex issue that currently requires work and support for its development. And in any case, the adoption of a law of its own, limiting rental prices, must be in accordance with future state legislation and the agreements reached in this House. In any case, regardless of the competence of the private rental price control system, what is clear is the need to establish an information system and the statistical tools necessary for its implementation. So I think, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, that your group could support this compromise amendment, because, as I say, it sets out the form and the information necessary for price regulation to be effective. In any case, I also appreciate your willingness to try to agree. Finally, as you mention, a special mention of the emancipation of young people, simply remember that the Basque Socialists are not alien to the problem of renting among young people. Hence, among many others, the Gaztelagun programme, being the most important, which is increased in the budgets of 2022 by 13.13% and which is going to become structural from 2022 onwards. Facilitating the emancipation of young people is undoubtedly a line, one of the Government's strategic lines. But the emancipation of young people is not only a matter of housing but also of greater complexity. We will not make enough progress in this area without other structural reforms that allow for decent wages, job stability, as well as other policies on education, or even culture, which are working on the future. Youth Act in this House. Eskerrik asko, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u46	... ma'am, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Today we discuss two motives: two interpenetrations made on the Chief Arriola on the 29th of October. And, interpellations, I'd say they were different. At least this seemed to me: What Mr. Martínezinion did to him about the sale of the young, the Basque Country, and the payment of the rents, was very exact, and not exact? Then, when you present the motives, the one and the other have been discovered by you in the exact ratio of rents. And that's why I think it's been a discussion today, too, isn't it? Well, all the same, about the housing again, the discussion that we've had so many times. And in the usual matters, right? : the giving of young men, the want of rents, the cost of prices, and the control of them. And, well, we've been developing housing policies here for a long time. We have often spoken in the legislature; we have reached the grand consent. And even when we talked about the young men's donation, we had the last discussion in May, how we'd improved the youth program, we got an agreement with the groups that support the government together with the Podemos. And that's where, this Castile program, there's improvements (... ), as several measures have been required to be set in motion. And, well, those who have spoken before me, even Mrs. Pérez, are saying that we're going to have a commercial program since 2022. But that's not just what the government does, and what the Housing Department does exactly is to give the young people a place. Even so, the drilling quarters, or even the chairman of the department announced that he would store coups in public promotional promotions... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the dwellings, or even the chairman of the department announced that the coups will be kept in public promotional rentals to give the young people a housing. But we know it isn't enough, and I think we're all in agreement for the divorce, not just because of the housing problem, but also because the housing problem is very expensive, it's for that private market, and, well, it's for the young man to help in the private market. But, as has been said before, we need a co-ordination of all public policies, and that is why we have introduced the law of youth in our middle course, right? When once it is accepted in this legislature, the integrated policies, which will also facilitate the growth of the younger ones, starting from education, from work and employment policies, as well as from the housing or family policies. To limit the other rental prices. And again and again he says that the Spanish law will give us more jurisdiction, both in interpenetration and again. And I do not agree with you in that, I think, that any body of the community, who has any right to it, has no further title to it. Because we have a full right to develop housing policies. It is true that we need changes in Spain to limit the rental legislation; but the regulation of that housing law, which you have so often alluded to, in its last regulation, says that the change of the law of the settlements is necessary. So I, and in this I agree with the Ambassador of the Basque People, and thus we have left him, when we say in our Middle-Axis, that the bounds of the price in the market is thus possible, and by the legislation, we have not mentioned the Spanish Housing Act. I agree that we ought here to admit it with our jurisdictions, and in our parliament, and that it would be a law which would allow it, when those civil laws, which sometimes obstruct it in Spain, make it easier for us. At least that's our proposition. And that's how I think you've been held out from the government's hands to negotiate budgets. So I agree with what you've said, Mr Martínez IIón, that we are going to advance a step today, when we say that we've reached an agreement that the rent prices should be limited to a limit. We are agreed, and in our medium we receive several tools which will allow us to make this possible? The state of the market is really to know what it is to share this information between the administration and the administration. According to this, there is also a way of recognizing what these tensioned areas are, and of placing the measures in it. Maybe we don't share the means completely. At least we are careful to observe this law of Spain, so that we may not be able to restrain it from being torn or broken by those whole powers which we have here. And at least, our choice would be our own law here, I do not know whether we now have a new law, or whether we now have a new Housing Law, when we change the civil regulations of Spain, and make it possible for us to set bounds to those prices of rents we have our own instrument. And besides, in this Spanish preventure, Ms. Saez de Egilaz has also said, "Trandes tenedois." The juridic person has large housing parks, and it will affect them at least, as we have foreseen, to limit the rent price. We must also consider what our market is, and what sort of houses we have here, which have their own dwellings in rent. And perhaps that measure would not be the result you hope for at least. And further, we believe there is a certain degree of cautious action, which, when the rent has not been placed in several places, has been answered to be contrary to what was expected. If the first bid is few, the more offers have been diminished. So we're ready to start that way. But a little, that is why we have left our middle course without making the right reference to the Spanish law, and always saying so, when the legislation makes it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The next round of the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Well, this we see as a new attack on private property. There is no empirical evidence, not even an economic model, to support the fact that by limiting the rent price the housing imbalances can be corrected. You know why? Because what you claim is against all economic theories and models based on supply and demand. In the Basque Country there is a shortage of rental housing, and the owners of the few left know what they are doing? Put them for sale in the face of the uncertainty of what is generating this new law. And, moreover, these measures criminalize not only the great forbearers, who are shielded from their goodist proposals, but also in those humble families... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...new law. And, moreover, these measures criminalize not only the great forbearers, who are shielded from their goodist proposals, but also in those humble families who have saved for many years and with much effort to get invested in a home and obtain income complementary to their low wages, how, through rent. That's for starters. But there are also many examples of countries that have been implementing these measures for years, and where it has already been found that far from being effective they have achieved the opposite effect, reducing the supply of housing and increasing the price of rent. Moreover, in much of these places the rule has been declared unconstitutional, such as in Berlin and Paris. In Sweden, this type of regulation has been in place since the 1970s and is currently under discussion because of its ineffectiveness, as it has not only managed to raise rental prices, but for those households that are under this regulated regime in Stockholm, some families are forced to wait up to 20 years to access these types of housing. In Barcelona, for example, after one year of application of the measure, prices have barely fallen, while more than 10% of the existing supply has been destroyed. In Vox we have it clear. Initiatives such as those that pose to us all they achieve is to distort the market, to further strain the areas where it is intended to apply, to drive investors away and to punish Basque families who have been saving years to invest in a home. This is first-class economics, a very simple concept. If you limit the offer of anything in a market the price will increase. If artificially the future profitability of property owners is reduced, the future investment, both in second-hand housing and in which it is to be built, is discouraged. And let's not talk about the absurdity that it can be to define what an empty home is and also to control it, because they will already tell me if a second residence that is occupied in summer from time to time is considered empty or not. You are not thinking about the vulnerable, you prefer to pull populism and criminalize the owners as cause of the situation, to those who expropriate part of their income while in addition you increase the costs of electricity, home insurance, the IBI, the interest of the mortgage. The solution to lower the prices of rental apartments is to take more housing out of the market, not to create rental aid programs, which also limit the housing in which young people can live by reaching the maximum rental price. Therefore, these would be the solutions. In addition, this weekend professionals in the sector were focusing on it and betting, for example, on turning empty commercial premises in our cities in the Basque Country into rental homes, but you don't listen. Therefore, limiting the rental price is not the way and less influencing the private market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u49	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u50	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Today's society is the fruit of yesterday's society and what has been done from the Basque Government yesterday, as families were encouraged to buy, to be owners, to mortgage for 30, 35 years to pay that mortgage, to get a property. The Basque Government has been contributing to this for years. Houses have been built with public money to resell them at a lower price than the market. And what happened, for we all wanted to be the lucky ones and to touch a floor of VPO in the round draw. And that was the only opportunity we young people had to be owners, and so we fulfilled that old, old, caspian, past premise that all Spaniards would have the opportunity to be owners. And in this way, if you were hit by the lottery of one of these VPO draws, you could have a better life than your partner next door, who unfortunately had not been hit by the draw. However, that one was mortgaged to the eyebrows. And for several generations we have believed that what had to be done was to buy a house, to invest in housing, and who were the ones who invested in housing, because here, in the Basque Country, they were families that at peak and shovel ended up paying their first mortgage and were mortgaged again and bought a second home that cost them a barbarity to pay, for what, because to have a better life of the elderly, surely renting it, or simply to have when their children were older and independent, they did not have to suffer to pay a mortgage for so many years. So now, in 2015, this Parliament adopts a housing law and this government has to develop a series of regulations, 47, and it starts by regulating the canon for empty housing. And so what is this, because to all those people who have been buying for years... they have been saving, they have been putting aside money to buy a house for a better future, because they have to pay ten euros per square meter (?) if that house is declared empty. That is the best case, in the worst case, that house will be expropriated for five years to rent and can be extended up to ten years. And then, and if they rent it now, what they want to do is put a price on what they have to rent it to. And where is the law of supply and demand. If you want to influence rental prices, what you have to do is increase the offer and to increase the offer you have to invest in public rental housing. Stop already building VPO for sale or VPO rent with option to buy or once and for all assume completely the competition of housing, instead of having the municipalities building VPO or rated housing, do it you that for that is your competition. Do you know why the municipalities have created housing societies? Because the Basque Government was not building in its municipalities, and therefore its neighbours were not being cared for in terms of housing by the Basque Government's Housing Department. So, we remain in that you have not been able to manage your competition, and now you want to get involved in managing the private, lowering rental prices, charging fees to those who do not rent it or expropriating it. Eye, that all those families they want to influence are savers, pick-and-pick workers, as I said before, who the Department of Housing never... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... all those families that they want to influence are savers, peak workers and shovels, as I said before, to which the Housing Department has never helped. And for families and young people who have difficulty accessing the rental market, they need to know that this government and the past have done nothing to get it out, but patches. What they propose in these motions are patches, they do not attack the problem at its root. Bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. Do yourself a favor to start building and acquiring, by means of tanteo and retraction, housing for rent, and you will control the prices. At the highest demand, it decreases... Or at higher supply, lower demand and lower prices. It's as simple as that. It is not about, to solve a problem, creating another problem for people, families, which is not that they are billionaires either, because here in the Basque Country we do not have great forks. It is not a question of crushing or coercing or threatening those who have sacrificed or been able to sacrifice much for having a home or a second home; it is a question of caring for all families who demand housing, young people. Do not penalize those who have been able to have it, but help those who have difficulties. And, Mr. Martínez Zatón, you said "to intervene in the market directly." It's barbarity. It's barbarity. It breaks any free market principle on which our economic system is based. Preservation of private property, that's our goal, in other ways influencing the market. And that's called a market economy or a mixed economy, without having a directed economy, which is what you want to get to, and we would end up creating a problem to solve another. And, really, the problem would not be solved, because with all the examples that have been given in this rostrum, in other countries where they have been lowering the rent price for years and are thinking of eliminating those laws, as in Paris, as in Berlin. Therefore, what you are proposing has already been proposed in other countries and has not worked. What does work is the principle of free market. If we want to influence the housing market, we are going to build more public rental housing, and that will help those families and young people who need a push to become independent or to have decent housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing on the answers, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u52	Yes, thank you. Well, starting at the end, yes, logically, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita bets on market intervention for a fair redistribution of wealth. That... we haven't discovered anything new. And, in fact, Mrs Larrea, I invite you to read the Spanish Constitution, which I understand your party is defending, and to look for me where the freedom of the market is without any limit. We have, many years ago, since 1996, not been in that consensus of 1978. Another thing is that we do not use the legal tools in place to improve people's lives. I invite you to read article 128: "All the wealth of the country in its various forms and whatever its ownership is subordinate to the general interest". I think that's just as valid as the rest of... It is a shame, the first articles of the Constitution have more value, but this should have it. Article 131: "The State may, by law, plan general economic activity to meet collective needs, balance and harmonize regional and sectoral development and stimulate income growth and its fair distribution". Well, possibly for you this is articles, I don't know, revolutionaries, communists or so, but it is the rule that is in force and that's what we stick to, and that's also what's in the explanatory statement of the future state housing law, to put in place measures that protect people, because they're measures against no one. In fact, the small owners what they do is a part of what is also done here in Euskadi, and it is giving a series of incentives to lower rental prices and to mobilize empty housing. And housing also has a social function, also established in the Constitution, whether of small owners or of large forks. What we do is to distinguish how one intervenes in the housing of the small owners and how one intervenes in the housing of the large forks. And then there will also be a debate about whether a small owner wants to put a house in a neighborhood... for example, in Rekalde, at 2,000 euros the price of that house. Well, if it's legal, yeah. Is it legitimate? I have my doubts. Then it will be necessary to encourage at least social awareness towards housing to increase, and for the moment it is not a stick, and the empty housing decree if something else we can criticize is that it is too, too, too much, too much guarantee and so that when they are mobilized it takes a lot of time. But if you achieve the objective of mobilizing empty housing, for our part, welcome. Then there's a lot of argument whether there's not a law here or a law here or not. Vamos a ver, at this moment an EH Collector introduced a bill of law, which we voted for the tramitation. We have proposed some undertakings in the legislature and in the legislation here in Eukadin, in order to do things. Yes, PNV and PSOE have always opposed this initiative or initiation. For me, if he's in the state now, and here's a new competition, because we've got the housing competition, but we don't have the competition in the market. And this new legislation will allow by means of certain measures in the area of the apartment a very concrete procedure of the markets, and an intervention which will have a great deal of support. And that's a new right because all the housing policies can be done here, but not the interference in the market. I would love to, I have no problem, because Euskadi, in a new statute, has powers to regulate the market. No problem. But it is not today's debate. Now today's debate is to take advantage of the fact that there is a framework for having new competences. Discussions on one's own law have been given, they can be given. We and we, depending on the content, but, well, in theoretical terms, we would approve and support that we have a law, a law of our own. And besides... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... have been given, may be given. We and we, depending on the content, but, well, in theoretical terms, we would approve and support that we have a law of our own. And besides, there's gonna be it. There will be, because the law itself determines that the autonomous communities will have to regulate and regulate, within their sphere of competence, the regulation of rental prices. And that is what, for example, also through our presence, well within the Government, well supporting from the outside, in Nafarroa we are doing, what we are also trying to push in other autonomous communities, and what we have tried to push through this law in the State. These are new skills that emanate... Right now, the constitutional order is like this. I didn't make it up. The competition to regulate the market is in Congress. And here we're gonna have the new tool so we can do it. And that's gaining sovereignty. Sovereignty for Basques and Basques. In a limited way, because the law is going to be very guaranteeing to the big owners? Well, yes. But it's a breakthrough. And we and we congratulate each other today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u53	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u54	Thank you, Chief. Good morning again. First, I would like to refer to the third point, because it is about the Law of the Young, that relates a point to it in this medium. It's true, we're in a state. We're in a discussion. There's nothing yet specified. It is true that we can also refer to the fact that the Young Man will come to the Law, and because it is a reality. But it seems to us that there are still so many things to discuss, and there are too many things to discuss, that there are still so many things that we can talk and agree with. And therefore it is well to make a reference, but perhaps we are still wanting to account for it according to what we desire. That's settled. And on the other hand, there's been a lot of talk about Castile. I've been talking over and over again about the fact that the young man can't be the main instrument or program we're going to be using, because he's not effective in his work. And he has a direct connection with what we're talking about today, because he has a direct connection because high prices in the private market don't allow many young people to participate in a program like the Youngman. That's why I think it's all tied up. And when we speak of the integral policy of youth, which we have brought here today on the table, we must also talk about this measure which we have placed on the table. On the other hand, I think it's very focused on the discussion. And I'm glad I've argued about it in this parliament. Who we'll be waiting for, what we'll do sooner and later. And I've heard with pleasure the words of the congressman Beraspski. And I think they're all right in one way or the other. What we clearly have is the law of housing which will come from Spain, and which is probably the most important thing for us, and according to the information we have today, is not quite useful in dealing with the affairs of Araba, Biscay, and Gipu. And on the other hand, we don't even know when to accept it. We do not know whether the application of that which will reach this legislation, even if it passes to the tramite. If, then, we believe that we have options here, we have tools, and if this decantation can be on the table, it is essential for us to begin today to give answers to those things which are today, and not to wait for a reality which will increase the problem in the next few days or in the next few years produce other answers. And we think... We've been talking about options, options are coming from Madrid. But without waiting for these options, we also have options here. We proved this law a few months ago. If then this community has a full right to limit rents by other techniques, there is no need to wait for us to limit the private rent. And I think it's not even a word of self-interest in this, and especially in this camera. The auto-engine isn't magic. It's not something that happens according to a state of state. There is an auto-organity in which the people and the people themselves are self-organized, political ability, institutional capacity for self-organization in their own decisions. Then we'll have to talk about who gives us that ability and what gives it to us and when it's given us. And seeing that we have a chance to continue self-referring today, why should we wait for a housing law where Madrid will arrive if the rents are going up and up here? If it is impossible to face these prices for the people, for the Basque People? Why don't you just put the boundaries around here? Why don't you start making boundaries today? Why wait for me to talk about a law that can be in Madrid's disconsolate? I think we have options and we can have some agreement or at least some common points on the way. We brought in a formula that had been controversial for some political parties a few months ago, for some parlamentary groups here. Other formulas can be found. We can give them other formulas. And I think that's the key: to decide here without waiting for anyone, and to arrive at this ability to self-gravitate by such decisions. That's the best and most significant way to raise the auto-organization we've got here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. Simply reschedule some of the ideas I have previously put before Mrs de Egilaz. For the Basque Socialists, it is a matter of time and legal certainty, above all, of legal certainty. The preliminary draft of the housing law provides for such a system which will allow, in a legally secure manner, to control prices in the rental market. And the horizon is set. The horizon is set for 2022. In fact, it's within the reform plans... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... control prices in the rental market. And the horizon is set. The horizon is set for 2022. In fact, it is part of the reform plans linked to the European funds. So, right now, what I'm inviting is that we take advantage of this opportunity that we have linked to the state housing law – as I said before – that we need to go through, that we need to support it, to work, because it will also allow, among many other things, to clarify the competitive framework of the administrations and where we will be able to enter from the Basque Government. So, the adoption of a law of its own to limit rental prices, in any case, will always have to be done in accordance with that state framework and, of course, also, as it cannot be otherwise, being very respectful of the agreements we have reached in this House. So, regardless of that area of competence, I think the important thing now, and what we were discussing here today or what we were discussing here, and what I think is essential to highlight, is to work on this system of information, of statistical instruments, which we have not developed for today, which in the State are doing it, which have already developed it, which in fact the body itself, the INE, thanks to the collection of data through the State Agency are already working on this implementation of an information system and of statistical instruments, and here we have to do it. We have fiscal competence in the outside administrations, and it is very important that we look for a system that guarantees that cooperation and the involvement of all the administrations involved so that, without further delay, we can put this information system into operation. The Department of Housing, as I say, handles a lot of statistical information, but in its hand is not the one relating to that which the farms have outside. So, it's important to establish this system, and today is what we were bringing here: that start-up, and already ensure the transparent and necessary information for us to have... that this price control system is effective. So, that is why I understood that your group could also join this initiative, regardless of where our entire legislative development finally ends, which will certainly have, as always, many areas of competition but which, at the outset, we will have to wait for the framework and be very respectful of the state framework, which is the one that gives us the legal guarantee on the other hand. So, nothing else. And thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u58	Yes, thank you. Well, I'd like to put the deal that we made today. I think we open a way to measure the rent prices, in a way, well, to control them, or at least to measure them. You said you didn't like my words, Mrs. Saez de Egilla. Well, I'm glad. I think that at first we're more in harmony than we left, because I've told you, and our team in Madrid will be careful to look at the housing law, our jurisdiction... I said, that we have full jurisdiction in pretty houses, and don't let us lose ourselves in the transfer of that housing law. Eta henera, nik uste dut garrantzitsua de la irakurtzea lege-aurreproiektu horrend the first final provision, Mr Martínez Zatón, that when he talks about price containment measures in the regulation of housing leases, what he does is amend the Urban Leases Act. And I take that as the basis. Perhaps, changing the civil law of Spain, we have no need of that housing in Madrid to measure our rentals at least. And I agree with you, that we also need to increase the auto-organization, that we have to raise it. It's not a nice word, no, no, because the development of our personality is here. And I agree with you that we have a power to make our laws, and that we ought to do so in this legislature, even in order to be able to go beyond pretty houses. And that's why we haven't even mentioned the housing in Madrid in our middle place. We said "when laws make it possible." And that's why I'm convinced that we can do it here. And so you've also offered it to you, even to the government, that the government is willing to negotiate the budgets, when you accept a law to limit the rental prices of the housing, right? So I think we should continue in the nice houses we're developing today. Mrs Larrea, I agree with you that the best housing policy is to continue to expand the public park. I absolutely agree; that is medium- and long-term policy. The structural housing policy, in fact, goes hand in hand with the expansion of public housing supply, which is already a very important element in the control of rent prices in the private market itself: the more public supply the private market prices will also fall. And it is a clear example that, in places in Europe where the public park is much larger than ours, well, prices are not what we have. We have to adapt to our reality, which we have a very small rental offer, with very high prices. And that's why it also said that by legislating here we adapt to our reality, and we will make an ad hoc law for the situation of the housing market in Euskadi. And for that it is, of course, the exercise of our powers, of our self-government. And in that, gure tadea, beti, hor izango da. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Mists, yes? Mrs Martínez, it's yours... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u60	Thank you, Madam President. The issue of rent must be based more on agreements than on impositions, and that must always be the way. Taking into account, moreover, that we must respect the law of supply and demand. Mr. Zatón, you invade everything, you hate private property, but, yes, that of others, the same always happens. Its main concern is to regulate and eliminate private housing, private education, private health care. That's your only concern. Any substantive that carries the private adjective forward or behind that is the problem. We know that economics is fair and the law of supply and demand is something that they have not had to understand very well, but that we must take it into account and respect it. You were telling us about the Constitution, about the article that interests you. I'll tell you another article. Article 33 of the Spanish Constitution "recognizes the right to private property and inheritance". Moreover, this article enjoys constitutional protection measures established by the Constitution itself. And, in fact, it says: "I shall bring an action for unconstitutionality against laws and statutory provisions that violate the law of private property." Study it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u61	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u62	Thank you. Let's see, 2,000 euros in Rekalde is not going to be rented by anyone. I mean, hey! For the issue of the free market or the law of supply and demand. You want to directly attack private property. Those of the new policy, use a very old concept that has not worked where it has been applied. Well, Venezuela, Cuba: "Yours is everyone's and mine is mine." That is the concept that has been applied and has not worked. In countries with targeted economies, they have only brought poverty and suffering to their citizens. He talks about intervening in private property to make a society fairer, and the just society is the one that rewards effort, not the one that rewards everyone equally without being forced in the same way. You have also said of the Constitution that you want to change the order of importance of the articles of the Constitution, or rather you want to alter the constitutional order? Is that what you want to do? Very well, (...). All I can tell you is that it is up to us to preserve private property so that investments in this country continue and we do not create uncertainty. And what we have to do from the Basque Country, from the Basque Government, is to support and help families who have difficulty finding decent housing from the Housing Department, expanding the public park for rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. End of discussion, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzerski, Euzal Socialists, and the middle-direction that has been signed by Euzébertarians. It's a vote... Oh, yeah? Wait. Dots? Por separatedo. I guess there's no problem, right? Okay, so we vote together, as I said, about the 1st-point of the media that has been signed by Podemos-Nozzers, Eukal Sozialists and Euzébertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters, 46; the opposites 7; Abstations, 19; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u64	So, the 1st point is accepted. We'll vote for points two and three in a row. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; in favour of 52; contrary to 0;0, 20; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u65	So they've been accepted. And points three. Five point in theme list: "To discuss these other proposals of law together, and to take up the final resolution: The same proposition as the parliamentary team of Podemos-Edemus was made together, concerning the procedure of demanding, under the protection of the changes of the law, the unjust immunations written in the case of 1946 and 1998. The other proposition of the law of Parliament is, that the Catholic Church should resume the inheritance of the goods immutated in the Bible and Bacia." It's the caller's turn. Together, Madam Podemos-Nozzerty, representing the Anxiety Group, is yours to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. With this equipment, we have a proposition regarding the process of demanding unjust immunciations. The point is, what we ought to say here is what immutation is, what it is to immunctify a thing. And to immunctify is: Firstly, the registering of a property in the register. A person, if he thinks he owns anything, must carry out a document in which he really knows that he owns it, and the notary writes it. And from that point on, the property remains recorded in the record. Zergatik hitz egiten dugu eta hona ekartzen dugu ekimen honen bitartez immatrikulazio bidegabeak? Well, we're actually referring to something that began to happen from 1946, in the middle of the Franco era, when Franco... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Well, we're actually referring to something that began to happen from 1946, in the middle of the Franco era, when Franco decided to introduce into mortgage law a clause by which he equated bishops, high ecclesiastical hierarchies, notaries. So, and it must be said clearly, in payment for his support of the military uprising, in payment for this service rendered to Francoism, it was allowed that the simple word of a bishop in the Registry of Property was sufficient to say that certain property, determined well, was property of the Church, without any other certificate, title that believed that the property really corresponded to the Church. 1978.eko Konstituzioa onartu egiten da. Eta, Konstituzio Honetan, akonfesional statue of it gives. Eta esaten du, huta ére, Konstituzioaren aurka doazen edozein lege, ba, derogatetuak gelditzen say it. Printipious, 1946. Urteko law mortgage artikulu hau Konstituzioaren kontrakoa zen. Beraz, aurrera jarratizerik ez zeukan, bathe legea ez zen aldatu eta aplikatzen jarrati zen. Thus, from 1978, too, and despite the Constitution and the confessionality of the State, the Catholic Church, the ecclesiastical hierarchies of the Catholic Church, with their word alone, could register property in their name in the Register of Property. In 1998, this went further, because Franco himself considered the places of worship to be public property; it did not occur to him that they could be inscribed simply by the word of the bishops. Well, in 1998, with the Aznar Government, this possibility, this inspection capacity of ecclesiastical hierarchies, was increased. From that time on, places of worship could also be registered in the Property Register. How long was this going on? Well, until the year 2015, where the mortgage law changed, and this possibility was denied. By this time, between 1998 and 2015, if we are based on a series of records sent by the Spanish Government, or on a list of a branch, 35,000 estates have been recorded in the Home Record. Between 1998 and 2015, 35,000 goods registered by the Catholic Church. However, we know that the goods irregularly registered by the Catholic Church are many more than these 35,000. Why? If we refer to the data we have in Euskadi, for example, in this list sent to us by the Government of Spain since 1998, it turns out that 88 farms were registered here in Euskadi. But we know, we know, thanks to an initiative that was adopted here in this Parliament, urging the Basque Government to publish the goods registered by the Catholic Church in Euskadi since 1978, we know that here, from 1978 to 2015, at least 530 properties were registered. In other words, we know that the list he has sent us, which has been published by the Government of Spain, is insufficient; it is very short. In the case of Euskadi, 88-530; the difference is very wide. Of course, what it is about, therefore, is to do justice. And in order to do justice, to do justice, it is necessary to declare the nullity of all those goods whose property has only been accredited by ecclesiastical certification. Because we have to recognize that the hearts of the peoples of Euskadi are seized by the Catholic Church in a fraudulent way. And thanks also to a Francoist law, which democracy was not able to repeal until 2015. The task of recovering these assets is the responsibility of all public administrations. However, given the enormous power of the ecclesiastical hierarchy, we cannot delegate this task to the municipalities, and even less to their neighbours and their neighbours. And the responsibility to face up to disputes, the task of investigating one by one all the properties that the Church has registered, is a task that cannot be delegated in these instances. In fact, in most of the municipalities of Euskadi it is unknown what these properties, which had always belonged to the people, which were thought to belong to the people without being in the name of anyone, and which were registered by the Church. That is why it is important for this Parliament, too, to take up the matter again. And, at this point, I would like to acknowledge the work of the Citizen Coordinator, recovering the goods improperly registered by the Catholic Church, which is doing a great deal of research and dissemination on this matter. Here we have two members of the newly formed Berreskuratuz platform in Euskadi, before yesterday, who will continue to carry out this research and dissemination work in our territory. My appreciation to them and to them. In short, with this initiative, what we are trying to achieve is that justice be done, of course, and that the people be returned to what is of the people. A common friend often says that the Catholic Church has eternity to defend its privileges. The action of the political representation of this House culminates in the end of this legislature. Therefore, let us not lose the opportunity to do what is ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. The representative of the EH Collect Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word to present the initiative. [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all. As a matter of fact, Mrs. And so I'm not going to go deep in it this evening. We have had various disputes, especially in the preceding law, in this legislature, and, well, fewer or more, but you who are here know at least what we're talking about. First of all, I'd like to thank the members of the platform to get back, they've announced their constitution this week. It's true there's another platform in our country that works in Nafarro, and we had this anomaly in the Esquila Autonomia Er member, there were no platforms, no popular platforms, and this week their introduction was made. And so we wish them lots of ways. Since EH Collect first brought the matter to the legislature, in February 2015, my friend and partner, and I would like to send a farewell to the fellow Igor Lope de Muinna, who, from that time forward, has been exposed to manifest improvements in the matter which the Church has unjustly licensed. First of all, because of the year 2015, we have from 1976 the property of the records today, from this initiative we have today. By this agreement, we have these patrimonys, which have been unjustly immatised in the name of the Church. And somehow we started to walk. At Navarrian, as I said before, we started to make our way back to the beginning of 15 years ago. Then in the previous law, almost at the end of the year 2019, we made a new progress through another PNL proposal. And right there, we got different points. And by this time some of these points have been fulfilled, and I will not prolong my plan too long, for we have received some of them in the enterprise which we brought to-day, not by any means full of them, but by which they remained unfinished; and I should like to concentrate on them, rather than to recall those who had been accepted in 2019. So, what do I mean by this? The progress was also in 2019 and with a very large consent in this legislature, we gave another progress or progress in the impeachment and the subject. And at the beginning of this year there was another progress, the other also due to a request made from this legislature, which is, we believe, that we have placed our grain in it, because at last we have made political pressure on it in this direction. And the immatations of the Catholic Church were published in the whole state, and this time 1998. From year to year, the Aznians government allowed the years to write the cults. By the way, and even the woman who hated her brought it here today, Franco didn't dare do it either, and Aznar did it. But even Franco had not the courage to do it, and Aznar came to do it, the Popular Party did it. And in total, since 1946, the church lands in the whole state have been more than $700,000. From the Roman law the temples were considered as public goods, as in France or Portugal, and are now so far removed from commerce, that they could not be privatized. And to confirm that this is the case here, in the Basque Country, in our country, in the townships and local records, is only to be seen by the people, as well as by the people, to see how the family, the temples, the cults, and the bills are in their name, and are paid for them. And most of them are not temples, but municipal houses, gardens, lands, lots, even schools, cemetery, and squares. Witnesses of robbers of Bishops, without title to any other property. A dictator, a dictator, turned into a public trustr, to stop the inheritance of the people. monumental scandal, monumental scandal. And I'd like to bring him here because that's the way his book expresses the Mari. And there's a confession from here today to the great work that's done to José Mari Espartza on this subject. And, in addition, a way of misappropriating all this heritage that is of the people with the following formula, that is repeated throughout all the records, the simple notes of the record, that we have, as I have said, thanks to that initiative that we brought in 2015. And they say so, and I like to repeat it so that it can be seen that today we would certainly not use such a flourishing language and we would sum it up very briefly, but they say: "They own the estate – the Bishop, the Church, such, there are different formulas –, they own the property described in full ownership and in peaceful possession since time immemorial, without any title to believe it and inscribe it by the grace of God and the Holy Apostolic See, request such inscription". And that was all they needed, that was the registration formula for all these assets. There are, as I said, in the different municipal archives bills of how the people, of how people have been who they have built, they have paid with their work and effort this kind of heritage, whatever it is. But this was the formula that they have used and that can be read in each of the notarial records. And, as I was saying, between the progress that has been here since 2015, the first time that we've brought it, there's been a platform in it this week, and we believe that this will also contribute to the subject, because the thing that's around the impimaculations... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and we believe that this also contributes to this subject, because it is really a thing about the magnetisms that society, people in general, does not know what we're talking about, and that there is no work to be done for it. A piece of information, a pedagogy job. And we believe that would have to be a job for public administrations and public administrations. And why do I say that this also concerns public administration and institutions? I think all those things that have been progress until today will be a step back, a step back. And there's a step back from the political parties you maintain, because there are some proposals you've already received in the proposal we were in today. And in order not to give too much weight to the Dekatato and the Registrarators, they have somehow fulfilled that. They even made a revision. What the Spanish Government demanded, well, the publication of that list has been made in some way. And now there are new requests, knowing the size of this scandal. And that's in your proposition. And we protect what you get. But what you've done is you've been asking others for responsibility, and you've gone away from this agreement with certain duties you've been doing hitherto. And we have tried, even at the last moment, to keep the engagement, if the theme takes a dimension. This is true, as I have said, because there is no such important demand at present from society and municipal assemblies. There are only single cases. And that is why we asked the Basque parliament to take the leadership and to regulate the necessary duties of the Aldududians, together with the Eudels, lawyers, and historians, to examine the immatised goods, to retrieve them, because we believe, as in Navarro, there is a publicization, as the public record of this whole estate has been laid out, we must here also have it. And somebody has to do that. And for this purpose the Government was already engaged. Then we shall see what use it is, whether it is necessary to begin a judicial action, or whether it may be a counter-produce, but at least to know what we have, what dimensions. And to let each council know what we're talking about today is the day when the councils don't have that information. And then another second point, and this could be more controversial, and we even begged him to give it to you, along with the almond trees, especially the legal and historical information about the origin and rights of their public domains in the EAE place, and to secure them actively in order that the churches should be properly protected, as they ought not to be, to forgive, in order to recover, in order to recover, in order to recover the goods they had acquired. .) If the procedure of assistance is to begin with the judicial procedure. And this is more controversial, but at least it'd show a more active attitude from the funk, an active attitude. And that's why I'm saying that until today, everybody has been advanced. And today, unfortunately, you can see a step back from the side that supports the government. And we hope it's not a coercatural thing and we hope it's not in a short time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing it to the teams that's running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u70	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning also to these people who are with us today. Good. I believe that, indeed, as everyone who has preceded me has already commented, the proposing groups, this debate that we have here today is not new. More than one will recall initiatives in this regard, in fact, both in the X. and in the XI. Legislature. But, specifically, this is the result of the publication of the study prepared by the Government of Spain, in compliance with the agreement reached in the Committee of Justice of the Congress of Deputies, at that session of April 4, 2017, in which a non-law proposal of the Socialist Party is approved, concerning the claim of ownership of dominion or other real rights registered in favor of the Catholic Church. And, indeed, in those more than 3,400 pages of the study, which will agree with me that it has been a prolific, rigorous, also complex study, because it has required coordination, had to be put in communication, had to work from the General Administration of the State with all the records of Spain, in order to be able to fulfill what the Congress of Deputies asked. And in that report, ladies and gentlemen, that report contains the correct reading, Mrs Gorrotxategi, of what is the legislative item and what is the real item of what has happened in relation to these goods, regardless of whether we share the fund, the background that, in fact, the goods have to be in the hands of their real owners and owners. Regardless of that, it is the report that has each of the answers to the questions, approaches and possibilities that are brought to the discussion of its initiatives. We're gonna be tough. And in that report, ladies and gentlemen, it is... This is a problem not only of feeling character... The land of the Basque people is kidnapped. No, no, This is also a legal debate; and we are legislators. That is why I want you to know that, as I say, this report contains the historical and legislative evolution of the registration procedure, and also of the subsidiary procedure... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... as I say, this report contains the historical and legislative developments of the registration procedure, and also of the subsidiary procedure. Parents of the primitive Mortgage Law of the year 61, passing through the Royal Decree of Development of 1863, the amendment of 1909, the regulation of 1915 and the reform of the 1940s, namely 44 and 46, which contains the original wording of article 206, to which the section of marras is added, in fact, by Law 13/96 of 30 December, the law of Aznar of which you so much speak. And also the Royal Decree that develops this, which is the 1867 of 98, which amends some articles of the mortgage regulation and removes the exception that excludes from registration all temples destined for Catholic worship. Then again, this establishes, in effect, all this (...), in the end we arrive, establishes the legal regime of registration of farms in force until the entry into force of Law 13/2015, of 24 June, which is the one that puts an end to that. Okay? The report also notes many doubts of constitutionality, doubts of constitutionality that were never resolved. Where the possibility of registration of the Catholic Church's certification was raised was unconstitutional, but the Constitutional Court did not have the opportunity to discern on this issue. It also includes the process, a process which, by the way, is very guaranteeing, of access to the Register of the Property of all the property of the Catholic Church which is not susceptible to private property. And the consecration, moreover, of all these principles of inalienability, imprescriptibility and unimpedability of the public goods contained in the Constitution. We can't do here a totum revolution, private property, public domain property, historical heritage property. We're gonna be tough. In addition, it must be said that any property that accedes to the registration by bypassing all the forecasts and precautions established by law, in the event that they have acceded, may be physically and legally purified in accordance with the provisions of Law 33/2003 of 3 November 2003 on the Heritage of Public Administrations. That report also tells us of the procedural way forward for recovery, which would always end with a judicial decision, which has been urged many times and which no one wants to go to. Because, indeed, we must act before the courts, you have two days (...). We have you and we, everyone has two ways. Either a claim action or a declaration action of (...). Depends on whether possession is also at stake. But there are also a number of other problems arising from the Civil Code and certain institutions with very broad roots, such as any purchasing prescription or that famous usability that we all know, right? But that, anyway, this is what there is. Then, there is also a differentiation in the report between public goods and members of the Spanish historical heritage. Very important this too, you have to read things well. And finally, the data obtained. The data obtained are those that are, in fact, already said that there are 34,961 farms that registered from 1 January until the entry into force of the law. According to (...) whether they have been made with ecclesiastical title or with a different certificate. A general statistics is available which gives an overview of the data expressed, a breakdown of this statistics by autonomous communities. Anyway, we got everything. And as far as our community is concerned, there are, in fact, 81 registrations made during that period, regardless of whether there is more or not, which is the same. It doesn't matter, to see if we understand each other, but the question is not how many there are, but how they have been made and what way there is to cancel those inscriptions, whether there is one or not, depends; some may and others may not. So, in the end, there you have it in that report is everything, everything, what is the state of the matter. And, in short, as you know, because this debate has already taken place in other institutions, specifically I believe that the last one was in General Councils, where my colleague the socialist junta David Romero set the position perfectly. The nuclear part of the work called for in the initiatives, as Mr Estarrona has rightly acknowledged, is done. And, therefore, we believe that it is unnecessary to spend more resources, both human and economic, as well as administrative, to produce neither new inventories nor new studies. The question was at first to have that report. We have that report and we have data. To what we are now proposing is, let us say, the nuclear to be able to solve this. Another thing is whether it is what is wanted or not, but the truth is that the nuclear thing to solve this is to urge the Government of Spain, which is responsible for it, to analyse, to study possible legislative changes to facilitate the recovery of the goods that have been improperly registered by the Catholic Church. By the way, Mrs Gorrotxategi, that is what you and we agree on in the government agreement. Then I don't see what the point is. Looks like it's an agreement that's only part of you with us, isn't it? Because I believe, moreover, that with the current regulatory framework, above all that we had over the years until the amendment, the way and the answers are in the report. And there is no other way, regardless of whether we agree on what concerns the heart, the feeling, what we can think about institutions like the Catholic Church or others, okay? What we want is to fix this. And the solution goes through a legislative amendment. Because if we want alternatives other than those in the report... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... What we want is to fix this. And the solution goes through a legislative amendment. Because if we want alternatives other than those in the report, which are more flexible, more agile, but which are rigorous, the only way we can find ways to act with rigour and legal certainty is through a legislative amendment, which is the impetus given in democratic and legal states like ours. Because the rest, there's no way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. My lords and gentlemen of the legislature, I shall not make a summary of the progress of the mortgage of the Spanish kingdom in regard to the goods of the church, so often repeated. So you can save them. I prefer to focus on today's situation. In the first place, it may be possible to immutate a property without any rights; but it cannot be said that all the goods which have been immatised have been without right. Laburbilduz, Euskal Herria Bildutik eta Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Batuatik bide bi posetzen dozuez. You propose in your initiatives that two paths be worked out: on the one hand, on a case-by-case basis, in case it is necessary to go to court; and on the other hand, that legislation be amended, with a view to the possible cancellation of all registrations. Well, con respecto a la primera vía, sabemos que existia problemas de enversa. "Esammos hablando de labgos proceso juduciles, complejos en praeba y incierto desce." We believe, however, that, if we went on this first way, we should certainly have a much more settled position. The purpose of recalclamation cannot be general, but this section must be infinitely more refined. And as far as that section is concerned, today, or until now, the councils don't make much demand for your union or for your help. About a year ago, the outlaw deputy of Public Administration and Municipal Relations appeared at the General Councils of Bizkaia, at the request of the Juntero Group of Podemos, and gave information that we believe is worth considering. As far as this outlaw is concerned, there was no outlaw property that would have been registered by the Church. In his day, the Basque Government said the same thing when asked. But, returning to the appearance of the foral deputy, he also brought another point of interest: no town hall of the territory had addressed itself requesting the collaboration of the Foral Diputación de Bizkaia with regard to the issue we are dealing with. And I think it is an example that is repeated in the other two territories. Why aren't there those claims, those requests for help? In our view, there are three options for an explanation of this reality. The first could be that it is not a well-known situation, as Mr Estarrona said. It can be, it can be, municipal corporations can change. All right, all right. The second, that the municipalities might not be interested in a hypothetical recovery through the courts, for the reasons they understand. Or the third, who understand that they have no right to claim property registered by the Church in its municipal term. Those three could be, which probably also happens. Either of these three options can operate, even a mix of the three can be given. That appearance takes place in November 2020, and a few months later, as has already been recalled here, the Central Government is sending a new report to Congress that can complete what had been done by the Basque Government at the request of this House. In our amendment, what we are asking is for the content of the report to be given as much publicity as possible, so that it is known to all the institutions that might wish to be affected by the content of that new report. We've got some information about the list sent by RedMOP and the central government. You have to fix it anyway. It's identified by property, about 614, if I'm not mistaken. But, after all, it's the administration of the cause that must be moved. You can't claim the third property by yourself. In her speech Mrs Gorrotxategi said that we cannot delegate to the municipalities. It's just that it's not about delegating. It's not about delegating. It is that the Basque Government or the outlaws cannot initiate such judicial proceedings to claim property from a third party. They can't. To sum up, in our view, this first complaint is not being used, and we have doubts that it is finally being used. I personally can assure you that I have defended earlier agreements in this area and I have defended the viability of this route, which is worth redundancy. But reality is stubborn, and it's telling us it's not being used. Even in some cases, in some conversation I have been able to have not with the new platform that has been built this week, but with the Recovering platform, they were immediately beginning to advise against following that path. For the problems I have commented on: long process, uncertain process... Look, the first time I had to take over an initiative related to the issue of registrations was already... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... long process, uncertain process. Well, the first time I had to take over an initiative related to the issue of registration was already six years ago in another House. And I have to tell you that since then I haven't heard any complaints in Bizkaia, Araba or Gipuzkoa, I don't know him. Let us go with the second path that you propose, the second way, to amend the legislation to declare all registrations null and void. It is the third point of Elkarrekin Podemos' proposal and the sixth point of Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal. Also in this case, in our opinion, we will not deceive you, we have serious doubts that this can be possible, we have serious doubts that this can become a reality. However, the amendment we are presenting together with the Socialist Group seeks to remove these doubts as far as possible. And if those doubts could be finally cleared up, much better. We know what the report that the Central Government has made about it, but it's obvious that we all don't agree with what he says in this report, and it's clear that this discussion is clear. Without wishing to enter into the legal aspect of the issue, it seems that it acts legislatively and retroactively on the registered seats, since it may not be in accordance with the law to be able to face the principle of legal certainty. But well, study, let's clear up the doubts, let's clear the way. Finally, I will comment very briefly on the question raised by Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Batua about the possibility of affecting the cultural, religious and public heritage. And around this issue, in our opinion, heritage assets can be public or private, as you say..., as the law says. They are asked to change those laws. Well, they are proposing the corresponding amendments in the case of the Basque law in this Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies, and at that time our group will express its opinion on this. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Cuckoo. Mr. Gordillo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u74	Thank you very much, President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. The debate before us, as the speakers who have spoken before me have already said, is not new, it is only in this Basque Parliament that I think 12 initiatives in three different legislatures have already been counted. There have been countless debates and resolutions on this issue in this Parliament, in others, let's say, corporations, parliaments, throughout Spain as well, in the Congress of Deputies, where it was adopted in the year... By the way, all of them, the (?) They had around them something that curiously has not yet been mentioned, which is the mosque cathedral of Córdoba, but the rest of the arguments and the rest of the proposals or resolutions or sense of resolutions, because I think it was partly already known. As Mrs Gallástegui said earlier, which has made a major review of what has been the chronological period of this type of initiative as a result of the adoption of a resolution by the Congress of Deputies in 2017, the Government has prepared a report on the assets that had been registered not unduly, as the proposed groups, or irregularly, and man, are already starting to insert the wedge, I believe, already accuse these issues if not in accordance with the specific procedure laid down in the mortgage legislation, which was then also repealed. Well, a report was made, which, by the way, a report that was published, is also made public, by the way, through a resolution of the Transparency Council and a judgement of contentiousness through, but it was made public, made public and there it is. What I'm going to do is Mrs. Gorrotxategi, me for the... I have listened with great interest to all the groups. I believe that here there is a legal and a political issue. I believe that Mrs Gorrotxategi obviously uses this issue or this issue as part of that review process in which I believe that her group and her political party are in other places, of reviewing the transition, of recent history, of the role that you have confessed to, you have quoted Franco, Aznar, who is much worse than Franco, even I have heard him say and so, of course, because this enters into a debate or a political issue that you have, in this case of reviewing the recent history of Spain, and where, well, there is also a collateral issue here, which is the issue of the Catholic Church. On the legal aspect because I believe that the summary that Mrs Gorrotxategi has made has been very descriptive, sorry, Mrs Gallástegui, very descriptive, and the one that Mr Atutxa has made because it has also been very concrete, very specific. I think Mr Atutxa's arguments are very... They are good, that is, here there was a... a list of goods was requested, I say going to the bottom of the question, a list of goods registered by the Catholic Church was requested according to this procedure, and it is public, therefore, you know what goods are, and under the same legislation, if there is a person who feels that his right of ownership has been usurped or whatever, because he can resort to Justice through... through a valid legal title, because here you have to remember two things. First, one of the things I have not heard from Mrs Gorrotxategi, she is also a jurist, is that the registrations were not made only with a declaration of an ecclesiastical authority, but were made including a cadastral certification. That is another debate that seems very interesting to me to have. Spain is one..., as you surely know, Spain is one of the few European countries that keeps two records in parallel. The Catastral Registry belongs to the Treasury and the Property Registry that carries it Justice. And it is true that these two records are kept in Spain, but well, the cadastral title as it is also a title that contributes to establishing sufficient proof for a certain immovable property to be entered in the Property Registry. I insist, there was a title that had, that is, the Church came... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... for the registration of a certain immovable property in the Property Register. I insist, is that there was a title that had, that is, the Church came to possess a series of goods, that what she did was proceed to its registration. That then a legal debate can be established here on whether more, if less? Okay. But, I believe that the legal system, especially as it is at the moment, allows anyone to perceive, or to suffer – especially in their assets – an aggression in this case, precisely because they have been deprived, either of a right of ownership or whatever, because they have the possibility of resorting to a court of justice, and that this court perfectly corrects the possible registration that a registrar has made. That is why I say that there is, at this moment, a legal path. Of course, I have heard, in Mrs Gorrotxategi's opening speech, because I have heard some sentences, which I have pointed out here. Of course, you said, "No, it's that the Church, as it has eternity..." Well, that's possible, isn't it? The truth is that there are certain ideologies that do seem more permeable to any kind of evolution many times, right?, but... Well, man, indeed. I believe that, for this reason, the current system makes it possible, precisely, to defend the interests of people. Because that's the next one. Which, I believe, is the substantive debate. Here it has been said that there have been some goods that have been unjustly – let's say so, unjustly – (register?) on behalf of the Catholic Church. That, by the way, it was the institution that had owned them peacefully for a long time, and in which, on the other hand, because the owner has some obligations as well, because it was responsible for – let's say – meeting the costs of conservation, etc. And there are many buildings that have, as you know, as a series of annex expenses that are important. But of course, here the question is: "No, it has been improperly inscribed. And it's just, his legitimate..." And who is the rightful owner if not the Catholic Church? The people, in general? Of course, you, here, what are you proposing? If you are proposing a reform of the legislation that is basically about recovering, or if you want to institute expropriation procedures, that is another matter. If, for reasons of public utility, a good is to be expropriated, that is another matter. Which is what was done in France, by the way. You have quoted European countries in general; there are some nuances. In the French case, therefore, expropriation proceedings were followed at the beginning of the last century, with corresponding compensation. And, by the way, it is the French state that bears all the costs of conservation; we have now seen it with certain sad episodes that have happened. That's why I don't quite understand the meaning. That is to say, if there is legal protection for the person who can express a valid legal title against whom the Catholic Church has been able to express, the rights of the persons concerned are sufficiently protected. If you are raising an ideological debate on the role of the Church during the transition, as I believe I have seen in your initial speech, that is another different debate. That is why I believe that the explanations that have also been given today by the Government's spokespersons, and that must be acknowledged, because I believe that these explanations, in my opinion, are very correct; we can all make some nuances, but they have seemed very correct to me. And, above all, they seemed perfectly valid to me. That is why I do not understand the amendment tabled by the two groups supporting the Government, is it not? Because if what is asked of the Basque Government is to ask the Ministry of the Presidency for a list of goods registered by the Catholic Church, which I know already exists. Don't you? That report already exists. I don't know if they're asking for an update and so on.Some group said: "No, and let what is called upon the competent authorities, so that the municipalities can – let's say – recover goods that are illegitimately in the hands of the Church and that are of the local corporation." Listen, if there is that, I think there are already mechanisms, Mr Atutxa said, for the lawyers of the Chamber to... In addition, there are specific budget allocations for legal aid from municipalities that do not have sufficient means to do so. What I am most surprised about is the second point in the amendment tabled by the groups of the Government, where the Government is urged to consider legislative amendments to facilitate the recovery of property that has been improperly registered. Man, I think the essence is already in our order. I believe that, Mr Atutxa, the argument you made in this case, and Mrs Gallastegui, was good. It is already in our system; there is already a procedure in this regard. And above all, as Mr Atutxa has rightly said, the procedures, in this case of discussing a title, institutions that have actually held it for a long time, from my legal or procedural point of view, because it also has its complications. And now, making a rule that will review this whole issue, I think it will pose a lot more problems, it will involve a lot more prosecutions of issues, it will increase the number of situations of insecurity, and I believe that, everything, so that, as Mr Atutxa has said between the lines before, the situation continues as it was so far. Because the situation is going to continue with the possessors who are so far being the same. That is why we are opposed to the initiatives that have been presented by these two groups, and which are being discussed together today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u75	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the answers, together, Podemos-Nozzer, the representative of the Anxiec team, the Signora Hatage, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gallastegui said that we had to act rigorously. And yes, I agree: we must act with rigour in this matter. I am a lawyer, and I have been able to follow, more or less, all the chronology he has marked. It's been a little complicated too, huh? But, well, I was able to follow her. In any case, whatever that chronology is, there's one thing we can't deny, and that's the basis of all this. And it is that in the year 46 Franco's legislation granted the ability to act as public notaries, as public fedataries, to bishops. And that's a fact, beyond all chronology, beyond any normative issue, beyond anything else that could be more... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... and that is a fact, beyond all chronology, beyond any normative matter, beyond anything else that can be easier or more difficult to go through, the truth is that there was a time when in this country the bishops were given the ability to decide, to say what was theirs, without anyone being able to defeat it, because they were granted that capacity to be public fedarians. Of course, wrong, said Mr Gordillo, why they say it is wrong, man, because it is wrong for this, because it was the bishops, they, because they were who they were, who could determine it. And here is one thing also curious, because if we go to the pages of the Catholic Church, when they talk about registrations, note that for them the enabling title of this property is that it has always been theirs. In other words, the entire Catholic community has worked hard to manage to erect concrete buildings and goods, and well, it is understood that, of course, the entire Christian Catholic community that worked to do so was doing so so that it was the Catholic Church who managed those goods and also managed them with the title of ownership. Of course, if we accept that premise, well, we can also say that the Catholic Church came to register the goods because it had a certain enabling title, but of course, it is that premise that we cannot accept. It is a matter of principle, it is a little bit as if we accepted the premise of the absolute kings who said, or of the feudal kings before, rather, that we said that the lands were theirs because yes, because they were theirs. Then, to me already the premise seems difficult to accept, and in any case, I believe that we cannot accept a confessional state, a social and democratic state of law, to think that there are people who by their ecclesiastical hierarchy have the capacity to act as (?) Public. That is already a sign of improper action, of registration of property (?)indebted. Of course, it's all done, no, it's not all done. The list provided by the Government of Spain is from 1998, and as I said before, in Euskadi, for example, but this can be repeated in many places in Spain, most of the registrations were made before 1998, so we also need to know all that data since the 46th, because we already considered those registrations to be improper. Of course, because each registrar's seat includes not only a property exclusively, a church, but each registrar's seat includes several assets. The football field of Escoriaza, the square of the village where the swings are located, where the children of Escoriaza play, is the property of the Catholic Church; the Giralda de Sevilla is the property of the Catholic Church, the Good Shepherd, is the property of the Catholic Church. Of course, the Catholic Church as owner can also decide to collect entry to access all these premises, while after maintenance, conservation work, corresponds to public money or sometimes when public administrations have no money to invest, to the neighbors themselves of a people. That is why it is necessary to know what all those assets are that if we unduly consider that they were improperly registered, what they are, how they were made and what public and private investments have been made for the maintenance of those assets. And from there, from there, make the decisions also logically necessary regulations, because... and Mr Gordillo, it is not that simple to think that there are already legal mechanisms to reverse the registration of a title, apart from that there are only two months to reverse that registration in theory, but it is not that simple. And above all, beyond being simple, the first thing you need to know is what they are, and it's a fact that we don't know yet. That is why it is important for the Government, this Government, to do its part and to urge the Government of Spain to do its part so that, to begin with, we have sufficient knowledge, and from there, to arbitrate the necessary policy measures of change.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Lord Estarrona is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u78	Eskerrik asko berriro ere legebiltzarburu andrea eta, well, I think it's a rather exciting topic and it has many historical and legal points of view, and that we could spend a lot of time debating them. There is a concern, first of all to note a concern, because the fact of the registration improperly, to the Lord of the People's Party, to Mr Gordillo, for well, it has made him squeal and to me what I would squeal is that it does not seem improper to him that a series of disposals of some real estate or property have been made on the basis of a Francoist law in 1946. I mean, some alienations, some registrations based on a law of a dictatorial regime like the one that has suffered from the Spanish State for decades, that does draw my attention powerfully or even worry me, I worry. Mrs Gallástegui commented that I had acknowledged that some of the issues approved here had been carried out, but those which Parliament somehow mandated to the registers and the deanate of registrars have been carried out. The mandates of the Basque Government have not been carried out, and I do not say it, I do not say it, when this same legislature, and in response to it in March of this year, tells us that its department, "the department that I lead, has no record that the Basque Government has put in place any initiative after the transmission to the Basque Parliament of the documentation corresponding to the registrations carried out"; that is, of that unlisted, because it is not a list that we have in our hands, and there I think there is a difference also, it is a series of documents, the original documents of the registers that we have, but no one has worked on them. There is no list of how many are, how are they, what public investments there have been in those private estates, which we also have... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... The same. There is no list of how many are, how they are, what public investments there have been in those private estates, which we also have that information, in what year they were, through which bishop they were, to whom they would belong or who would be their legitimate owners, the legitimate owners of that good. And that's a bit what was raised and the Government was asked to do, that is, an inventory, a listing, in which we put black on white what we are talking about, because Mr Atutxa said that he, since six years ago he had had to discuss this issue for the first time in the Boards, that he was not aware of any case that he would have gone to claim. Of course, it's just, how will you know if people don't even know that this exists? If people don't even know this is happening... People don't know. How will there be peoples who intend to claim something if they do not know or know that they have the possibility or the capacity to do so? Or how, improperly, did the Catholic Church, in this case, take hold of them? Something that belonged to the people and that is found in the archives. Obviously, there are no requests in this regard. And, so, well, that's what we brought back here today. We also came to raise in our non-legislative proposal. And we are talking about the creation, for that reason, of a special commission, but in order to study the subject, to study, to put black on white and to see what we are talking about in the Basque Autonomous Community, because in Nafarroa this work has been done, through the platform, above all, but also with the help of the administrations that have turned. And that is what I was saying today, that, to date and before yesterday, that the Berreskuratuz platform was presented, we made a positive assessment because they had taken steps, in the good sense of going to a process of possible recovery, we would see whether through individualized judicial channels or with a legislative change. Because, surely, this second option is the most logical and the most likely to arrive at a good port. But for that we'll have to know what we're talking about. And for that, too, the administrations themselves will have to know how they can tackle this issue. And whether it's worth it or not. And I understand that there will be various casuistics, because we are talking about that, in Hego Euskal Herria of more than 2,500 goods improperly registered by the Catholic Church. And that is why I was saying, that even before yesterday everything has been progress in this respect and in the matter before us. But today we see a sort of setback, because from what was coming to this Parliament asking the Basque Government to lead a little, because someone has to lead in this country, because if not, there is a little ethereally left the matter, who leads to make that listing, that inventory? And who is coordinating this issue among the administrations? We propose the creation of a special commission with the Basque Government, the deputies of the historical territories, as well as the representatives of Eudel and jurists and historians. Well, to see what you can do and what you can't do. Hey, you can't go to court, because this is a very long process, which, in addition, we can have judicial rattles that are contrary to our recovery interests. Well, good, but a special committee has said that it has studied the matter. But it's just that, to this day, there hasn't been that. And that is what we note today that, in some way, something to which this Government had so far made itself available, it does not do so today. So, that's why I'm saying that I think this is a mistake, which I hope is short-term. We have not had too much time to talk about it properly and to reach an agreement. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of our initial proposal. And we will abstain in that of government groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u80	Of all the legal journey that this matter carries, because I believe that the work, let's say nuclear, which has to do with the relationship between the existing registered farms, and I say registered only, because, in fact, there will be some that may be unduly registered and others that are not, because, as you said very well at the start of your speech, Mrs Gorrotxategi, registration is nothing more than the first registration in the Register of any property likely to be registered. I agree with you that, in fact, the law of 46 is not that it coincides. It's just that it's a piece of evidence. It's a French law. But it's not just because of what you say. It is, fundamentally, because this law equates the Catholic Church with the State, with the province, municipality and public-law corporations or organized services that form part of the political structure of that state. When they lack the written title of domain, the written title of domain, they will be able to register the real estate belonging to them by means of the timely certification issued by the official, the certification, in this case the official would be the ecclesiastical, right?, in which the title of acquisition or the manner in which they were acquired was clearly expressed. Enabling title. The problem is that, in fact, later, the Law of 96 and the regulatory amendment of 98, which allows, in addition, by administrative certification or in this case diocesan, new works, improvements, delinquents, etc. can be registered. And that's the problem, actually. But the problem is fundamentally legal. That it's a Francoist law? We know that. And that Franco didn't end when he died? We know that, too. And that the peoples of Euskadi, that is, the public domain of Euskadi, are going to leave it like this, which is more correct, the public properties of Euskadi, may there be any that are improperly in the wrong hands? Also. But the legal issue, you know it as I do, is what it is. And it's a legal item that hasn't been answered in any way by any law... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ...too. But the legal issue, you know it as I do, is what it is. And it is a legal issue that has not been answered in any way by any constitutional law, no matter how much you say it, Mrs Gorrotxategi, because, among other things, apart from the fact that there was no occasion, if that had happened, in the articles of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, that you will know, like me, that they are 38 and 41, that do not allow the retroactivity of that sentence, nor the application back so that... You know it perfectly, just like me. The issue of the report. I believe, Mr Estarrona, that I agree that it will indeed be necessary to make an assessment of how to recover property which, if necessary, has been improperly registered and which is, and whose property and possession are in the wrong hands or in the wrong ones. In this case the Catholic Church, but any other, because here there has been a very important problem, which also comes from those deamortizing laws. This does not come from today, regardless of what we may be discussing today. And we'll have to get those things back. But, with the legal material that we have in our hands, we have difficulty. And we have thought that, instead of spending money on reports, spending economic, administrative, human, personal resources, creating commissions, it is much easier to analyze a legislative amendment, which will be the only one that will allow us to speed up and make processes more flexible so that, in the end, what is not yours is not in the wrong hands. It's just that. And that seems to me not only to me, but also to me, it seems to me to be a very important mandate from here on to the one who has the competence to do so. And, therefore, it seems to me a much greater advance than creating a commission, it will forgive me...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr Estarrona, the second way, of course, is the least expensive, from a human and economic point of view. It's the least expensive. But it is no less true that I, at least, do not feel able to measure the legal consequences. I am not able to measure the legal consequences in the event that such changes could be made or made feasible. The first way is the most expensive. Sure. But, after all, what we're asking is... Well, what we're trying to do is prove a hypothesis. Dedicating material and economic resources to try to prove a hypothesis. In the case of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, 614 hypotheses. And I'm going to tell you one thing that I personally know well. The files can be very ungrateful. Many hours of dedication may be that (...) the results. Maybe. Maybe. Finding a property document or some other document that can reinforce, let's say, the interest of a particular institution or the rights that a particular institution has on a property is not easy and it's not safe, because we're trying to find a document that we don't know if it exists, that we don't know it, that it can be there, but that we don't know if it exists. We don't know. Mrs Gorrotxategi, I would ask you, on this issue, to try to leave aside, as far as possible, ideological issues on which we are not going to move forward, because we are not going to reach agreements in this area, let us say, macro, and let us be more pragmatic. To this day, there are no requests for assistance from the institutions, for whatever reasons. I said them in my first speech. I won't repeat them. As far as this parliamentarian can comment, the pro-recovery movement is practically ruling out this first possible avenue of recovery to go to court. And it's positioned along the path of legal changes. Okay. In our opinion, he may have or will have the route he has. But, well, everyone will know where the accent is. Basically, this is the reality as we see it, and the situation today. And we think we have to be pragmatic. I don't want anything to do with the funniest of you. ) Asking. This is what's happening last year. We have lists. We have our lists. We can make more lists. Yeah. But for what? Keep them hidden inside a drawer? So far that's what's happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u83	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u84	Well, in the end, what has become clear in this debate is that the debate that was intended to be triggered was another one. One of the proponents has said so, Mrs Gorrotxategi. Prosecution of Francoism, the subject of the confessionality of the State... This is usually proposed by you in April. But, well, you can also think about it now. I have no objection to discussing it. But, man, I like to focus a little on the terms. Again, in his reply, he has not commented that the registrations that were made were made through a cadastral certification, which is another title. It is that it is not only with the immemorial possession, that it is already, but, in any case, the immemorial possession admits a proof to the contrary. I mean, the individual who feels affected by this, in fact, can... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...memorial that is already, but, in any case, the immemorial possession admits a proof to the contrary. In other words, the individual who feels affected by this, in fact, can discuss it and may raise it. Mr. Estarrona said, "It's important to know." Well, there's a list of goods. No, but we want more. But know who? No, the individuals who have been affected. Listen, then, if a private person, a person is affected in a good that he thinks he has some kind of right, man, I think the person knows him perfectly. I don't know if you have much experience living in small villages. I have lived in small villages many years of my life, and the truth is that in people everyone knows how far the edge of your land and the other reaches. Everyone knows that. Everyone knows that. Which I don't understand. If what you want is to know him, man, you are also the Government of Spain. I say there's something you can do. Mrs Gorrotxategi said: "it is that there are public spaces that are the property of the Church and so on". Well, then, it will be a public space, which is actually owned or registered by the Catholic Church in its name. And no, it's a space that's going to use the Consistory, you have to use... Look, there are procedures in that case too to, say, expropriate that land by also mediating a justification. I therefore believe that there are some answers which (...) legal order. But then the conclusion. Listen, it is that the report of the Government of Spain, here is the lady who at that time was vice president, Carmen Calvo, concluded that the Church did not register property in his favor without mediating title. And if we read the news of the moment, with the statements of those responsible for the property records, that's where they confirmed it. It was not only the declaration of being a good that the Catholic Church had immemorially possessed. It is that I again insist, gave me another title, which, by the way, is also commonly used to initiate proceedings before the Property Registry, which is the cadastral certificate. That is why what I insist on, and with this I finish, is that what seems here is that there was another debate. You have a debate, a particular obsession, which is to prosecute recent history, Francoism. Look, there's no problem with us having a debate on this. One day he will come here to propose that all marriages celebrated in Francoism be declared null and void because they were also celebrated by the Catholic Church. But, anyway, it's another matter. So, as I have already said, Mrs Gorrotxategi, you have not convinced us of the debate and we will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together with the original text of the proposition, as the Podemos-Nozzer, like the Anician party. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour 24; contrary to the 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u86	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote for another proposal like the EH Group. We can vote. Holder.)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u87	So it's not accepted. Finally, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eucabertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 40; the contrary, Absences 7; 24; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-18.u88	So it's accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and at thirty-nine.
