ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I inform you that the two members of the legislature have the vote in hand. First point in theme list: "The bill of law, the distribution of resources, and the Aldudias of Euscal Autonomia to determine the resources of the Esquires. Discipline and final resolution. "Madech's representative has the word to defend the bill." Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, good day to all. Good day to all of you congressmen. Today I come to present to you the one I hope is the next law called contributions for the period 2022-2026, and that as you all know, it will be the one that, with this denomination and after the Law of Historical Territories, would do the number 10. It will be a brief presentation because the content of the agreement of the Basque Public Finance Council of 15 July which defined the methodology for the calculation of contributions, now converted into a bill by the Basque Government on 27 July this year, is well known. However, it is for this legislature to formally approve it, and it is right that I should like not only to expose but to motivate the reason for this law, its main extremes and new developments. Later we will have the opportunity to exchange views on the entry of the law that I now present in the institutional and economic-public legal framework of Euskadi, since there have been numerous allegations at the time of its presentation, all of which are of high interest to the administrations that we are part of the Basque Council of Public Finances and which, in short, we represent the Basque, foreign and municipal governments. It is a fact that this law occupies a very concrete place within the internal public financial architecture of Euskadi. It is known that it has to have a content necessary for it to be considered valid, it is known that it can have a more contingent content and it is known that its content depends, basically, on the state of the annual budgetary revenues of the common and foral institutions, and much of those referring to the local Basque institutions as well. That is why it has been said, with nuances, that all contribution laws are more or less the same. Nothing further from reality, in my modest opinion. Faced with this vision, something sad and of mere institutional survival, this law, and with more reason that I will now go on to describe to you, combines all the characteristics to be considered one of the laws that more cohesion brings to the very complex Basque institutional and financial framework, the one that most obliges the pact and strengthens the more unitary vision of the Basque public finances to the full, and the one that, in short, maintains the political tension about the best way to satisfy the logical needs of meeting balancedly the need for resources and the sufficiency of them within a defined fiscal system. For me, it is not just any law, it is a law that represents an important part of Euskadi's internal facial spine, a direct heir to the Statute, the Law on Historical Territories and the Economic Concert itself, and that projects a certain calm in convulsive economic scenarios such as those we are experiencing, particularly since the adoption of the previous Law on Contributions, back in 2007, and maintaining itself as a reference with its principles and extensions, both in the great recession and in the covid period. Having said that, and already going to the specific draft law, I begin by reaffirming what I said in 2007 at this very place, with regard to the presentation of the previous draft law, the then vice-lehendakari and Counsellor of Finance and Public Administration, Idoia Zenarruzabeitia, by confessing that we believe that the rule we are voting today is a positive step that gives certainty to all the institutions concerned, because it is the most appropriate and balanced thing that could be put forward at the current juncture. It is the most appropriate bill, as it adequately complies with the distribution of resources derived from management... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... which could be considered at the current juncture. It is the most appropriate bill, therefore, properly complies with the distribution of resources derived from the management of the Economic Concert. It is the most appropriate bill, because it guarantees all Basque institutions a stable financial situation. And it is the most appropriate, because if new elements appear in the resource distribution model in the coming years, the law provides for how to adapt to this new situation. The second idea I want to highlight in order to distinguish this law from all the previous ones, is that it is the first time that a law of contributions is committed after the incorporation of the municipalities into the Basque Council of Public Finance, after the law of local institutions of Euskadi approved in 2016. I must say that this has taken place naturally both politically and institutionally and projects a certain idea, always relative, of, as I said before, a unique Basque public wealth in terms of the revenues collected in the country. So today is a special day for our legislature, and also for our Basque institutions. Today we will discuss the bill of law which regulates the financial and economic relations of Basque institutions for the next five years. That is to say, and as his title saith: "The bill of law for the distribution of resources and the economy of the Eunomy Esquires" to specify the funds to finance the budgets of the Eunomy Estribe. 2022-2026. I mean, the Contribution Act. What is called the Confederation Law is a fundamental Law to establish the Publique Policy of Euskadin; for the means derived from the management of the Economy will determine the rules of distribution between the Institutions, and amongst the historical Lands. And by these means they will finance the jurisdictions which they have assigned to a great extent. You all know, Autonomy 42 States. According to the rule of the articles, there will be a series of introductions from General Basque Ogals, the main entrances, which will help to finance the commercial expenditures. So also Autonomy is maintained by the same State, that a law of the Eugarchian law will regulate the criteria and procedures of distribution of the contributions of historical lands by equity. On the other hand, the 27/1983 law of November 25, which we know as the law of the Himistric Lands, establishes a sphere of division of jurisdiction between the two institutions of Euscarian, and prescribes the mechanism of financing and distribution of the means, which regulates the criteria and procedures of determining them. As you know, section 22 of this same Historical Territories Act states that "the Basque Council for Public Finance shall approve the methodology for the distribution of resources and the determination of the contributions of each Historical Territory to the budgetary expenditure of the Autonomous Community with effect for periods of at least three budgetary years, except in exceptional circumstances in the opinion of the Council, which shall advise its validity for one and two years". The, I hope, for a short time, existing Law on Contributions or Law 2/2007 of 23 May, was initially adopted for the five-year period 2007-2011, but after the five-year period, has been extended under the automatic extension clause provided for in its Final Provision. It has therefore been 15 years, 5+10 years of extension, of a solid methodology that has worked and guaranteed the stability of our institutional structure, since, throughout the current Law 2/2007, Basque public institutions have as a whole had adequate funding to be able to develop the competences they have attributed. This was concluded by the report on the "General analysis of the competences and funding of the various institutional levels of the Basque Autonomous Community" carried out in 2018. There is no doubt that many years have passed without a new methodology for the distribution of resources from the Economic Concert, but finally, on 15 July 2021, the necessary agreement was reached within the Basque Public Finance Council. An agreement that has had the unanimous endorsement of all the institutions, I would like to repeat it, with the unanimous endorsement of all the institutions that make up the Basque institutional framework. And that's already an important value in itself. The principles that have inspired the new methodology, as it could not otherwise be, are those laid down in the Precepts of the Law on Historical Territories, both in terms of the distribution of competence and the principles governing the distribution of resources between the various institutional levels. I will remember the following general characteristics of distribution: The means acquired by the management of the economy are collected in the jurisdictions and budgets of the forum-gain; these resources are divided according to the rights of each stage of organization, and the two sides are occupied by the financial relations of the two parties, between the general European institutions and the forum organs. The distribution model considers the criterion of shared risks, and by applying this pattern, the commercial public institutions share the danger which attends every historical territory by compacts. These general characteristics relate in particular to a part of the model, the so-called "vertical distribution model" of resources that determines the financial relations between the common institutions and the whole of the outside bodies. The "horizontal distribution model" of resources, for its part, completes the inter-institutional distribution of resources by determining how each historical territory's contribution to the common institutions should be made, while respecting that: first, criteria should be adopted to stimulate fiscal effort. Secondly, criteria are used which, from the beginning of budgetary sufficiency, seek a policy of... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... criteria that stimulate fiscal effort. Secondly, criteria are used which, from the principle of budgetary sufficiency, seek a policy of average average current expenditure per inhabitant that is equitable and supportive. And finally, that the contribution of each foral deputy is determined, basically, in direct proportion to the income of each historical territory and is weighted inversely proportional to the relationship between the fiscal effort of each historical territory and the average fiscal effort in the entire autonomous community. All these criteria for the distribution of resources must be retained just as well, and this shows the continuity of the previous methods agreed on the 15th of July on the 15th, which keeps the means in its chief furrows, and protects the fundamental principles which have been established for nearly 40 years. And this, I think, is of immense importance in proportion as it gives stability to the internal model of distribution. But to-day, the method of arguing and voting in the legislature, which is to be applied at 2022-2026, in five years, has new elements, which I shall briefly explain. First of all, about the structure and update of the law. The new methodology is distinguished from the preceding methodology in structure; for some rules have been reorganized, in order to clearly identify the elements which determine the internal pattern of the vertical and horizontal distribution of resources, and to apply the methodology as required, the operating rules or instrumentals have been reorganized. It has also updated those aspects arising from the application of the quota marking methodology or agreements adopted by the Joint Economic Concert Commission, the financing commitments that the State may acquire in areas falling within the competence of the Autonomous Communities or the specific arrangements for the financing of certain transfers of services. And, in order to facilitate the interpretation of the text, those issues that the current context, experience, or the application of the previous methodology itself advised to review have been adapted, and the procedure to be followed in certain situations not covered by the current law, such as the assessment of transfers not integrated in the vertical coefficient from the institutions common to the outlaws, has been explained. Thus the new method of determining the means of distribution and contributions is divided into six chapters: The determination of the means to be distributed, of the model of the vertical distribution, of the model of the horizontal distribution, of the general distribution, of the distribution, of the share of the local institutions in the resources derived from the Economy; and lastly, the sixth chapter, the operating rules, and the need of information. Lehenengo kapituluari dagokionez, lehenik eta behin, aipatu beharra dago kapitulua her berry, erakundeen artean banatu beharreko baliabideak zehazteari buruzko kapitulua. Baina, oinarria ez da batare aldatu, hau da, banatu beharreko baliabideak, orina art bezala definitzen dira. From the resources to be distributed, two concepts are excluded: on the one hand, deductions from the quota marking methodology, and on the other hand, special deduction for the amount corresponding to the implementation by the Basque Government of policies for planning, promotion and economic development and measures to ensure political and economic stability. Bigarren kapituluak baliabideen banaketa bertikalaren herduari helpzen god. The vertical coefficient is increased from 70.04 % to 70.81 %, as a result of the integration of the specific funding for transfers of functions and services and new funding not reflected in the previous coefficient, as well as to the resources which, from the common institutions, are transferred to the historical territories on the basis of a significantly greater contribution, intended to finance the portfolio of social services, which goes from EUR 20 to 35 million, as well as the integration of the amount corresponding to the policies of promotion of Basque and the planning of linguistic normalisation in the general financing of the municipalities. Among the competences transferred and integrated into the vertical coefficient are, among others, those relating to R & D+I, prison health, highways, AP-68, AP-1, maritime transport, employment regulation files, historical archives, implementation of legislation on pharmaceuticals, etc., including the last prison transfer. This integration increases or decreases the vertical coefficient, depending on who is responsible for executing the competition. The marked increase in the allocation to finance the social services portfolio from 20 million to 35 million, which reduces the vertical coefficient, is a clear expression of the commitment of the Basque institutions so that, in view of the challenge of ageing the population, a full development of the social services portfolio can be ensured. The third chapter is intended for the horizontal distribution model which, in its own terms, maintains the methodology for the calculation of the horizontal contribution coefficients, by unanimous agreement of the institutions represented in the Basque Public Finance Council. The horizontal model specifies how each of the territories should contribute to the financing of resources attributable to the common institutions, as well as the rules governing the inter-territorial distribution of obligations and entitlements arising from the quota methodology or the distribution of internal adjustments to collection. In this way, the definition of the variables to be used in the annual calculation of the horizontal contribution coefficients is maintained, and the weightings of the components, based on the income and fiscal effort criteria, expressly specified in the Historical Territories Act, are also maintained. Thus, the relative weight of GDP of each historical territory is maintained at 70 %... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... in the Historical Territories Act. Thus, the relative weight of the GDP of each historical territory is maintained at 70 % and the weighting of the inverse of the relative fiscal effort weighted by the respective collection capacity of each territory is maintained at 30 %. The fourth chapter regulates the general adjustment fund, the objective of which remains to ensure that, except as a result of differences in rules or management, the relative weight of the collection of each foral deputy, after deduction of the contribution to the fund itself, reaches 99 % of its horizontal coefficient. As a novelty, the ceiling for the General Adjustment Fund is increased from 1 % of the resources to be distributed among the Basque institutions to 1.45 %. The increase in the maximum amount of the General Adjustment Fund increases the guarantees already established in the resource distribution model for the Historical Territories, especially if we take into account that, as a result of the inter-territorial adjustments of VAT collection, special manufacturing taxes and the special electricity tax, more than 40% of the own management collection of the out-of-town parliaments is subject to prior redistribution, and therefore already represents a first step towards rebalancing. Another novel aspect directly related to the increase in the General Adjustment Fund limit is that the Fund is now structured into two distinct sections. The first tranche is used in the same way as in the fund regulated by Law 2/2007 on Contributions: it has a limit of 1% of the resources to be distributed, and to the same must contribute the common institutions and the outlaws according to their respective vertical and horizontal coefficients. The second tranche of the general adjustment fund shall be activated when, by application of the first tranche, a guarantee of 99 % of the horizontal coefficient has not been reached for all the territories. The limit of the second tranche is set at 0,45 % of the resources to be distributed and, unlike the first tranche, the contribution of the common institutions is set at 50 %, and the remaining 50 % will have to be provided by the outside bodies according to their respective horizontal coefficients. As you all know, you know, the origin of this second tranche lies in the agreement of the Basque Public Finance Council of February 19th, and as we announced at the time, it could be a first step towards the new methodology of the contribution law, as it has been. Pasto a las novedades del capitulus quinto, is the fifth chapter of the bill of law, and the subject is as follows: Parties of local institutions in the compacts. Until now, this matter was received in the fourth supplementary regulations of the law. The additional regulations which are now at work are now developed as chapters in the new methodology, with the novelty which I shall explain in succession. First, then, the share of the local institutions is determined in the sphere of the distribution pattern, as the Eukadical Office Law says, considering two fundamental principles: On the one hand, it was identified by the minimum degree of membership established by the Basque Council of the United Nations, and on the other by applying the criteria of the shared danger. If so, the minimum share of local institutions has been established at thirty-nine-and-three per cent. This percentage has been obtained after having grafted in the vertical coefficient the following concepts: a specific finance or funding of the forums, which is collected in the "dfi" law of the Union; a contribution made by members of the community to the institution of the Social Services; and lastly, to promote the use of the corporations, and to promote the normalization of the support, and to plan the financial rate of the financial year of Marchion under the condition of the undertakings. By establishing thirty-nine per cent of these thirty-three minimum leagues, the local institutions of the three historical regions will establish as the percentage of their share in the contracted taxes, by the recommendation, by the obligation, and, moreover, it will be greater than the share which is now recommended in force. Similarly, the recommendations made by both the Basque Local Institutions Act and the general analysis carried out in 2018 have been followed. Thus, the new methodology in its article 21 establishes as a recommendation of fiscal policy to the outside bodies of the historical territories that the criteria for the above-mentioned distribution provide for a policy of general and equitable current expenditure and solidarity, and that they are fixed taking into account, at least, the population, the fiscal effort and, where appropriate, the organizational uniqueness of the local entities of each historical territory. For its part, chapter 6 similarly covers the operating rules applicable to the new distribution model, as well as the reporting obligations arising therefrom, which incorporates a new precept dedicated to the liquidation of municipal participation, in a similar way to chapter 4 of the current Act on Contributions. Finally, the final provision for automatic extension of the law is maintained, ensuring the economic and financial stability of the three institutional levels and updating the content of annexes I and II, respectively, on the determination and calculation of the vertical coefficient and on the identification of the economic indicators suitable for the assessment of the collection capacity of each of the tax figures that influence the determination of the horizontal contribution coefficients. As an conclusion, we may say that the model received in this bill respects the fundamental elements of the structure of the previous laws, and at the same time the technical updates to be considered as the means of distribution, including the elements which have occurred during the past few years in the distribution model. The bill of law, therefore, strengthens the model of a shared danger in the distribution of the resources derived from the economic agreement, in a great measure making the finances of the funns and almonds general. He was a brewer... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...by making a lot of fun and financial funding general. In the same way, for the sake of a well-balanced and well-balanced finance, the forum institutions and local institutions have gained a greater and more security. And I would not like to end without stressing that the bill that I have presented to you today effectively integrates within it the legitimate financial aspirations of all Basque institutions. It ensures the economic and financial stability of the three institutional levels. It fully implements the basic criteria for the allocation of resources from the Economic Concert. In short, this bill will give soundness and greater certainty to the public accounts at this crucial moment in the economic scenario, focused on economic recovery and employment generation. In addition, having this law passed before the Basque Public Finance Council on 15 October will make it easier for all institutional levels in Euskadi to draw up the budgets of 22 using this new methodology. Finally, I want to stress the importance of this bill of legislation. I'm sure we've been able to win the glory of the forduns of three historical lands, the local establishments, and the Basques, to set the welfare of the Basques above any other subject. The New Contribution Law is the result of the compactl Interaction of the Institutions. And this honest and loyal partnership, this work that we've made together, will be the result of today. And that's why, thank you all, thank you, all of you who've really been most kind, including the President of the Eudel and the Eudel president, the Deputy Chief of Ogatis, and (Actually). ) To the Director of National High School. And also the deputy of the Ogal Department, the Ogage Department, the Ogland Department, and all who have worked, and all the counselors and technicians, who have worked hard work to get this deal. And especially I would be grateful, with your permission, yes Pepe (... ), and Joseba Alcde, what a wonderful job they've done in one way. And from another point of view, they've been in many laws so far, and their work has been very important all these years to get here at this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u2	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Next, we're going to the teams' turn. Little to big. Misst, her representative, Mrs Martíne, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Before I immerse myself in the details of this bill, allow me some considerations. Today's morning promises to be a version of the Comedy Club, with a succession of dense monologues in a dialogue of the deaf that will conclude, logically, without agreement, without one of the parties recognizing any reason to the rest. This is what Parliament has become, even more so with the exercise that the government parties are doing by their absolute majority. There is also a lack of social pedagogy, even more so when we are going to discuss something that affects all citizens, the pocket of all citizens, the destiny that is going to be given to their taxes, their contributions, because we are not only talking about the institutions, but about the fate of the money of each of us. The opacity in this plan is clamorous, which forces citizens to act of faith to believe that what is decided here will be good for them. Well, surely, more resignation than faith or trust. It is known that the one who leaves and distributes... And now let me go back to 2018. Then, Councillor Azpiazu said that the delay in the passage of this bill was due to the fact that Basque institutions preferred a good law rather than a regulation quickly, but that it might prove unsatisfactory. Do you remember that, Mr. Azpiazu? And here we are discussing a bill that does not like any opposition group, that now want to pass fast and running, and that has been characterized by the dissatisfaction that has generated among the institutions involved, most of them in the hands of the main party of the Government. A good reason to agree, no doubt. It is bloody for the Basque Government to refer a bill to this House, obviating the opposition, by preventing them from making amendments to improve or correct the legislative initiative. An evident demonstration of the growing authoritarianism of an executive who abuses his majority. That said, I summarize in one paragraph what I think of your bill. It strengthens the Basque Government as the main spender, to the detriment of the other institutions, which are closest to the citizenry. Increasing concentration of resources of all in their arks. It is also confirmation of the inequalities between provinces, that these inequalities are also known and allowed to grow. And it is the way in which everyone's taxes are spent on national construction of independence dream. And I focus on the details. The vertical coefficient is increased by 0.8 %, as we are told, as a result of the new transfers assumed by the Basque Government. Also as a reflection of the amount corresponding to the social services fund in the vertical distribution model that they propose, moreover, to increase by 15 million euros. There are no more explanations, nothing concrete. They are very concrete when it comes to specifying the costs of the Basque Government to finance with revenues derived from the management of the Economic Concert, 10,242,417,475 euros. However, those of the deputies are an estimate. It is a quantity that can vary and can also condition the percentages of the vertical coefficient. Where do those amounts come from? Why, in the case of the Basque Government, is the precision greater rather than that of the outside institutions? And it must also be borne in mind here that this is the mother of the lamb, this case, because it is where the Executive, moreover, can put any match and hide it between so many million euros. We therefore demand maximum clarity, maximum transparency and full implementation. It is also very significant that there is no concrete list of new competencies that would justify... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... maximum clarity, maximum transparency and full implementation. It is also very significant that there is no concrete list of new competences that would justify an increase in the vertical distribution coefficient, opening up a way to make any enlargement and modification of their contributions according to rules that are not sufficiently explained. Too many unsolved incognites in a very dense bill. In this sense, article 8 opens the door to the incorporation of new powers of the State into a possible increase in the coefficient. But they also do so without fixing ceilings, when it should be ensured that, under no circumstances, would exceed the 70,81 % fixed in their bill. Why don't you set this amount as the maximum limit on this bill? It is also remarkable that every time a contribution law is passed, it increases a coefficient that in the year, for example, 97 was 66.25; much less than the 70.81 that I have just described. And this can only mean two things: that they are being emptied of functions and competences to outlaws and municipalities; or that they are being cut off from economic resources to provide the same or more services. In any case, this bill reinforces something that has already happened: that the Basque Government is the institution that spends the most and that spends more every day, to the detriment of provincial and municipal institutions, precisely the administrations closest to the citizen and those that offer more tangible services. The adoption of this bill deepens the over-financing and centralism of the Basque Government. The Executive confirms itself as the main spender, undermining the economic capacity of parliaments and municipalities. This 0.8% increase in the vertical coefficient represents no less than EUR 110 million more per year for the Basque Government. Money that withdraws from the rest of the institutions and that leaves in its entirety the pocket of the Basque citizens already quite suffocated to taxes and those who, moreover, are denied the possibility of opinion on this. Nor is it clear why local authorities receive at least 39.23 % of the resources available in the historical territory. Act 2/2007 of 23 March, the fourth additional provision, provides for the recommendation of the Basque Public Finance Council to the outlying bodies of the historical territories to allocate at least 54.70 %. Now, what was a recommendation has become an obligation, but also reduced by 15.77%. And the reason is unclear. Why this figure, 39.23%, and not another? They talk about minima, but why don't they also indicate the maximum? The increase in the general fund of adjustments, from 1% to 1.45%, is evidence that imbalances grow over time. The proof that, far from solving the problem, the focus is intended to be on patches. It is undoubtedly the demonstration that these imbalances between provinces exist and are known, as well as the lack of rigour in detailing each of the amounts. An example of what is happening. Recently, the deputy general of Bizkaia, Unai Rementeria, welcomed the fact that the agreement reached on the draft contribution law increased the social services fund, to which I mentioned earlier, up to 35 million euros, being for his province half of these resources. Is this decision consistent with the real needs of the entire population affected by this new rule? What is the reason for such a decision? Maybe a power-to-power struggle that has nothing to do with the general interests of the citizenry? It is also remarkable that Bizkaia has managed to have some direct taxes that were previously shared among all the territories remain on the farm that collects it. This is the case, for example, of the tax on energy production. Especially raised in this province, in Bizkaia What interests do you have in this regard? Thus a two-speed Basque country is consolidated: an executive and a province in the most powerful and rich part; and the territories of Gipuzkoa and Álava dependent on a fund of adjustments that should advance towards 0%, at the same rate as the imbalances between the provinces were being resolved. Let us take, for example, the recent transfer of prison management. An excuse for this Basque Government to increase the vertical coefficient, to divert resources from other Basque institutions and to grab more funds in its own coffers. Ten years of negotiations, Mr Azpiazu, of discussions, which conclude in a bill that does not like any opposition group, which has not even allowed us to amend. Obviously, our vote will be against this text which is before us today. They also know that it will come forward with the votes of a party, a government that sells dialogue and practices imposition. For all that, from Vox, we ask the Government to return the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u4	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Azpiazu, welcome. We missed him. I do not think he will be able to be here with us on 15 October, in full control of having a Basque Finance Council, obviously, but, of course, it is a law that we have been presented with so much delay that this has become a bit of a government standard, is it not? Three late legislatures. Most of the laws that come here are already with three late legislatures. It is a pity that we leave things to the end and then, in the end, Parliament's control capacity because it can be undermined because the advisers, sometimes, cannot come to Parliament. Well, the law before us today is that on the draft law on the methodology of the distribution of resources, etc., etc., for the financing of the budgets of the Autonomous Community. In short, it is the law known as the Law of Contributions. It is the law that distributes the resources that the deputies collect among the different levels of government that exist: that is the local, the foral level and the autonomic level, as is known. All the opposition has already announced the vote against. We too will vote against this bill. Why? Well, look, the fundamental reason we're voting against is that in the very statement of reasons of the law... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...so, look, the fundamental reason why we are voting against is that in the very explanatory statement of the law, because here we are talking about that the vertical coefficient that is increasing, that is, the amount that ends up absorbing the Basque Government, goes from 70.04 to 70.81; by the way, reversing the last trend that had fallen to 70.04, now, however, it is rising. And what I'm wondering, and I think the rest of the groups have also wondered after they've read us all the information, is where are the economic reports? What did they justify, why? There is talk here of no, it's that they can raise expenses, etc., but where are the economic reports? I will give you some consideration throughout the intervention, because the truth is that I believe that the reports on which you have apparently been based and your team has been based to justify this change in methodology, or rather than in methodology, specifically in coefficients, which is what really changes, because I believe that it is not sufficiently justified. That is why we call for the return, in this case not so much to the Government, but by virtue of the provisions of the Historical Territories Act, to the Basque Finance Council or that within the Basque Finance Council, some of whose distinguished members are certainly here with us today, because they can redraft the budget. It is a law of contributions, forgiveness, essentially, an essentially opaque bill. And, in addition, it incurs important contradictions. But the explanatory statement says: "The vertical coefficient is increased – it is greatly increased, from 70.04 to 70.81 – as a result, as a result of the integration of financing, of the transfer of functions, such, such". Well, well, so far someone can think well, because the government has more powers, so the government will have more spending. The Government needs more capacity, in this case, to take on funding. Of course, but then, in a row, he says, "as well as resources." In other words, the coefficient is increased because the resources that the common institutions, that is the Basque Government, have to transfer to the historical territories on the basis of a greater contribution intended to finance the portfolio of social services have increased. This was hard for me to understand. I mean, I take the money from the deputies, I take it, and then I give it back to finance social services. How's this? Isn't it better not to take it off? No, I just want to take it off, but then what do I do? Do I redistribute it according to a number of internal criteria? That's what I think we need to explain a little bit more. Without funding there is no autonomy, this is a clear thing. Moreover, its spokespersons, by the way, in another House, the Congress of Deputies, repeat it a lot. And it is curious because what you constantly recriminate the central government, whatever the government of the nation, is what you are doing. In other words, what they are doing is centralizing the capacity to spend, with which they are conditioning the autonomy itself of both members and local entities. I'm not going to tell you, I think, I just this, I think this is going to be, so I've seen the claims of the rest of the groups, I think it's going to be a repeated argument. The great question that remains here flying over this plenary today is: but where do these numbers come from? Where do these numbers come from? Because, of course, you see, you read in depth the report, you read in depth above all the economic documentation that you are supposed to support or have to support this proposal or this bill, and the truth is that in annex one of the draft, where the only numbers appear, quite summarized, for, man, there I am not going to enough data to justify this. I see here, therefore, a very brief, very generic summary, lacking definition, without much justification. The truth is, it's something that repeats itself. Nor is there a reference to a specific base year, there is talk of some quantities, in annex one, where the expenses we have are said to be these and such, but, well, what year? He was commissioned a report through the Basque Finance Council, which will be quoted as saying that today also by opposition groups, which took a while to do so, in 2018. But, of course, the report is 2018, which is the report that is used in part, as it is said, as the basis for the presentation of this project. But, of course, it's a 2018 report that if you read it to it, you see it uses data from 2015. We're on our way, we're using 2015 data now to present this contribution bill. I am very surprised by the simplicity, especially because you have a very well-prepared team in your department, and I was very surprised by the excessive simplicity of the numbers that have been sent to us. I believe that a number of additional reports here would have made this very clear. Who are the most affected, who are the injured in this contribution bill? The main disadvantages of this draft contribution law will be the municipalities and the outlaws essentially. These are going to be the great ones harmed because they significantly reduce their funding, setting a much lower minimum funding limit, from 54.7 to 39. But the argument is the same, that is, the mandatory level of funding is lowered. There is also a question of how much of this very long ten-year delay is going on. Well, it has taken us ten years and in the end it seems that this legislature, which has an absolute majority in this very compact Parliament, has to pass a lot of laws, among others. The general adjustment fund also, which seemed to be an exceptional measure that was created at a given time to establish compensation, as you have also mentioned before, to establish compensation as a result of possible inequalities between territories. It's normal, if it's a complicated subject, I don't say it isn't. But, of course, that general adjustment fund, which was a patch, is ultimately being consolidated. In the end we're going to make the adjustment through a fund. It is the same system as at national level with interterritorial compensation funds in many cases, isn't it? What I'm going to do is I think that, this bill is very clear, and they bring us a bill with a formula there that apparently, well, quite complex, with data that are not too developed and as a main milestone that increases the collection, or it increases in this case, rather, the amount taken by the Basque Government, and they tell us that this is the wonderful law that will allow a fairer, more social, more such financing. Those are all the arguments we'll hear with the budget, I imagine. But it does not convince me of the distribution of this, it does not convince me of the methodology and the explanation of the distribution of the money. It does not seem, therefore, that all the recommendations of that report, which was commissioned at the time, have been followed closely either. There's another... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... money. It does not seem, therefore, that all the recommendations of that report, which was commissioned at the time, have been followed closely either. There are other arguments which we can also make available to them, namely the lack of homogenization of accounting criteria, which was already stated in the report of the Basque Finance Council itself. Don't you? Listen, what in one territory is called one way, in another territory is called another way, is financed under another heading, in the end, there are certain differences between territories that are not homogenized and because they are not homogenized, it is often difficult to establish these criteria of territorial redistribution which is, I understand, what the Government will also claim. Nor am I going to go too far, but this lack of homogenisation in accounting criteria has obvious risks. What's the risk? If we do not call it the same in Álava, in Gipuzkoa and in Bizkaia, if we use different criteria, because obviously when it comes to establishing, analyzing what are the requirements of income, expenditure, etc., we will not do it right. There is a risk, a very obvious risk of undervalued or overvalued certain competences, certain expenses and so on. That is why, in substance, Mr Azpiazu, all this seems to us – I think it seems to the opposition, but each group will speak for itself – to us, to me personally, to our group in particular, this seems to us to be simply a twist in the process of centralisation that the Basque Government is following, in this case, through funding, by increasing funding. This does not stop being curious, because then one of the constants of the Basque Government is the lack of implementation of the full budget it has. It's a curious thing. In other words, it is trying to justify or above all to amass more money to the detriment of local institutions that provide great service, as I will say below. And then, besides, the budget itself that they have already been handling, always suffers from lack of execution, always. And then, besides, you do this very well because you get to convince or at least get to move sometimes the message that, no, the lack of budget execution is very well because we have a remnant. Man, we have a remnant because we have been unable to implement the budget, it is not a positive thing, quite the opposite. Here what happens is that – and we have seen it with the covid – the local institutions, not only the parliaments, which have a large number of social powers, but also the local entities themselves have a very important role to play in the face of the citizen and in the face of managing, and above all to renew, etc., the demands made by the citizens. Let's say that the local area is the first line or has been the first line – it is usually – but almost always for the citizen. For the citizen, in fact, there is a single administration in general, a single administration where the person who puts most of the time the face, and above all the other cheek, is the town hall, town hall which, I insist, is abused by removing or cutting off its main channel of funding which is this. That is why I sincerely believe that this Act on Contributions, this bill on contributions that is before us, could be much better done. We are, of course, in favour of adopting a bill, a contribution law, a law that is fair, and above all a law that is clear, a law that clearly establishes the criteria why one thing is, why not, and especially with the reports. Here they have had time to send the reports, which happens that as we have always left everything for the last moment, and in the end everything has been accumulated for us, we have accumulated such, the meeting of the Finance Council, then, of course, Parliament can not come to appear, and in the end as the bad student we leave everything for the night before. There is another important issue – which I am going to finish with – and that is that in reality the increase in the vertical coefficient, which it does is to increase resources in the hands of the Basque Government, of course, corresponds to the increase in current expenditure, corresponds to the increase in current expenditure. The reports of the Basque Finance Council, and the latter in particular, also spoke to us about the need for moderation of current expenditure itself or, at least, for analysis, etc., which tended to moderate a film at least what is the usual expenditure, which is structural expenditure called – as you know much better than I – the "current expenditure", which is not done either. That is why, Mr Azpiazu, we are going to vote against it. And what we are also asking is for this bill to be returned to the Basque Finance Council so that synthesis can be reworked. And with this I conclude, it is a bill that is dark, it does not present the proper reports that justify these important changes in the coefficients. Secondly, it is a bill that will significantly increase the centralism of spending in the hands of the Basque Government. A Basque Government which, by the way, has already demonstrated its lack of capacity to implement the budget it already has. And, thirdly – and I think this is very important – it's about local entities – and here are some of their top representatives – almost as if they were minors. How many times have we talked in this Parliament about the distribution of powers, of responsibilities between each other, but here practically the Basque Government almost becomes the legal guardian of the parliaments and, of course, of the municipalities. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, our group proposes and requests that this House vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u6	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-Nekership representative has the word. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u7	Good morning. President Señor. Senor Subalzu. The Statute of Gernika, the Law on Historical Territories and its incorporation into the framework of the Economic Concert recognize the peculiarities and the historical future of our country. They were and are, therefore, the crystallization also of a collective social will that, by definition, can never be completely closed. The agreements of this nature, the social pacts are born with the will to endure in time, but they do not have a useful life... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... never completely closed. Agreements of this nature, social covenants, are born with the will to endure in time, but do not have an unlimited useful life. Today we discuss here, at least partially, its formulation or fiscal and financial derivative. This differential factor that our territory has with respect to the territory of the common system of the State, a difference that derives from this historical and collective becoming that gives this country the capacity to collect and manage its own resources and then compensate the rest of the State by means of the figure of the quota. The Act on Contributions that we are discussing today sets out the vertical distribution keys on the collection of outlaws, as well as the horizontal distribution between the three historical territories of the financing of the Basque Government. It also sets out the minimum percentage to be allocated to municipalities. It is therefore crucial – and here it is for us and for us the key – because it provides, among other things, financial capacity for public administrations with less collection capacity. The peculiarity of the Concert regime, unlike the autonomous communities of the common system territory, implies that we do not receive funding from the State. This forces us to finance the expenses of our institutions with taxes or public debt issues that must be accepted by the markets. It is true that it provides us with a regulatory capacity of infinite possibilities and derived ones, but it is also true, and this is from our point of view, and we have expressed it more than once, that we do not take advantage of all the opportunities provided by this regulatory framework of our own to implement fairer and fairer taxation. Its design tends, in many cases, to make public spending excessively pro-cyclical, which prevents us from responding effectively to economic crises, cushioning the declines in economic activity with sufficient increases in public spending. This law, under the consideration of Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza, was an opportunity, among other things, to rethink contributions, establishing mechanisms that mitigate the harmful impact of the shared risk criterion. It is true that the new methodology passes from establishing a recommendation of minimum participation in the collection by agreed taxes for the municipalities of 39.23 %, but only after the deductions from the methodology of marking of the quota have been produced, the special deduction for the amount corresponding to the realization by the Basque Government and the policies of Planning, Promotion and Economic Development, the general contribution to the common institutions, the evaluation of the new transfers from the institutions common to the outlaws, the net amount of the General Fund of Adjustment... After all, the municipalities, once all deductions have been taken into account, only participate in 11.5% of the agreed taxes. In short, the Basque municipalities suffer from the same under-financing problem that afflicts those of the rest of the state. There are other models, and so we can cite the case of federal countries such as Austria, where municipalities carry out half of the public expenditure of which subnational entities are responsible. Or Germany, where that percentage is 38%, according to ECO data. And the lack of municipal funding prevents a territorialization of social spending for a more close execution to the territory, based on a precise knowledge of the real needs of the citizenry. We had the opportunity to design another contribution model that would reduce the pro-cyclical nature of the funding received by municipalities, and that would have enabled the Basque Parliaments and Government to manage with higher levels of indebtedness in negative cycles. In our opinion, a historic opportunity has been lost to rethink the entire Basque fiscal model, and to open a process of reflection with the State to make possible a functional finance model that replaces the obsolete and conservative concept of finance, ill-called "responsible". This missed opportunity comes, moreover, as does this bill of contributions, one of each afternoon, and to be approved, moreover, with which it will clearly be a majority – it is true that – sufficient, but which we consider to be scarce, taking into account the bandia and the importance of the law. Because, in the light of it, unless it changes throughout the debate, this law of contributions will only come out with the support of the parliamentary groups that support the Government. Allow me to stop for a moment to underline this fact. The Basque Government, together with the outside parliaments, is working on this draft contribution bill, more than a decade after the expiry of the current one. An agreed allocation of resources at the peak of the real estate bubble, which remained in effect when the economic paradigms of the time had jumped through the air. Law 2/2007 has been extended irresponsibly. These extensions have resulted in distortions that have not taken into account the circumstances of territorial income distribution in our autonomous community. It is incomprehensible and inexcusable that there has been a 10-year blockade. Today, a decade later, the Basque Government proposes to us, once again, an act of faith: the endorsement of a law that, although fundamental to the institutional becoming of Euskadi, has been elaborated in a conclave behind closed doors. A closed-door conclave, no witnesses, no political opponents, in the hands, basically, of the Basque Nationalist Party. Although, of course, we do not have, nor will we be able to participate in the process of drafting this law, we believe that it would have been welcome for the draft to be annexed, as has already been said here, to the relevant technical reports which should accompany the normative text, and which would allow us to clarify the suitability or not of some of the precepts developed in the law that are being debated here today. Three years may seem few, but the competitive transfers that have taken place and will take place in the coming months, coupled with the greatest economic shock in recent history, deserved this law to be accompanied by studies, estimates and scenarios incorporating these changes, and future changes, for example, the foreseeable concertation of the new taxes with the State. Therefore, in the next few minutes I will make an effort to set out our position on the bill, both in terms of its form and its content, at least in terms of its public and known content; on the discussions that could have been held behind closed doors between the territorial leaders of the PNV, we cannot pronounce. First of all, we are obliged to insist on the idea that the definition of the criteria of distribution in two private conclaves, such as the Basque Council for Public Finance or the Joint Commission for Economic Concert, are a way, in our view, of stealing the participation of parliamentary groups... in this case, we know that it is in the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament, but in any case it seems to us that it is not transparent and undemocratic. In this sense, and so we've recorded it in the allegations, it doesn't seem... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... But in any case, it seems to us that it is not transparent and undemocratic. In this sense, and we have left it recorded in the allegations, it does not seem justified that the vertical coefficient is announced to the citizenry in a process that recalls the election of the Pope of Rome in a very heavy conclave after an inscrutable and hermetic process. This coefficient, the vertical one, is increased, as has already been said, from 70.04 % to 70.81 %, which is essentially justified and is basically the only reference given in the text, by the integration of the new competences assumed by the Basque Government in recent years. This is not surprising, since the substantial changes in the level of competence assumed by the Basque Government should, in our view, rather be reflected in the quota. This increase in the vertical coefficient should rather reflect the division of competition between the different Basque institutions. If in any way they justify it in the new powers, then it can be concluded that the Cup should be corrected. With regard to the horizontal coefficient, account is taken only of the share of the GDP of each territory in relation to the total GDP of the Basque Country, with a small adjustment to take account of the fiscal effort made by each territory. This adjustment weighs only 30 % in the calculation of the coefficient, one wonders whether the tax effort should not be taken more into account, assigning it a higher weighting. On the other hand, this criterion, although apparently fair, ignores other indicators that can be taken into account to reflect the contribution capacity of each territory, such as asymmetries, in the suffering of economic crises, servitudes that may give rise to certain infrastructures or regional imbalances. So we have also wanted to reflect it in our allegations, it does not seem that the absences in relation to these considerations... sorry, the absences in relation to these considerations, in our opinion, are clamorous. It also seems that the drafting of this bill seems to have ignored some of the enormous contemporary challenges we face, such as the need to respond to climate change, the gender pay gap, the weaknesses that have exposed the covid pandemic, the economic recovery after the pandemic, the distribution of Next funds, which we believe should have been valued in calculating the vertical and horizontal coefficients. And to end with the great absences does not include his bill as fundamental as scenarios in which the new tax figures of the State, such as the Tax on Financial Transactions, the taxes on single-use plastics or the Tax on certain digital services, can eventually influence the coffers and the level of collection. Finally, we believe that these three blocks that I have just exposed to them largely invalidate the precepts of this normative text, which, as they usually do, is rather a recycling, a short glue of the previous one with certain adjustments in terms of coefficients and percentages. On the other hand, it should be noted that this normative text, as it usually happens, is apparently very technical, but tremendously ideological in substance. Although their mouths are filled talking about expansive spending, of rebuilding the economy from the public, of the end of austerity, the truth is that they have not strayed into the bottom of the postulates of the last decade. In the text it is presented as virtuous and also uses this term, to moderate the growth of current expenditure. Over and over again. We think we should abandon those premises already. I repeat here what I have said on many occasions in Parliament. The growth of current expenditure should not be moderate, but should respond to the real needs of citizens and to the management of the economic cycle. Public expenditure, when it responds to the logic of good governance of the expansion of the public service for the stimulation and leadership of economic development, always has a positive impact on society as a whole and on the public finances themselves. A disastrous decade the past in the economic, pernicious in the social and that has not even met its objectives in terms of public debt, it seems that after (?)live we have not learned much. I now turn to the General Adjustment Fund. The ceiling for the fund increases to 1.45%, and as has already been explained, the distribution model for this percentage, but the truth is that the question that our group is asking is what criteria they determine again, because we do not know them, that this percentage will be 1.45% and not 2%, 3% or 0%. We don't think there's any apparent logic behind it. In addition, we believe that it perpetuates the existing budgetary imbalance, and that in the end, what reflects the General Adjustment Fund is a failure in the system of the Act on Contributions. We believe that such a fund should not exist if the allocation is properly tailored to the existing territorial needs. Finally, a minimum percentage of local entities' participation in the agreed taxes is set at 39.23 %, which is somewhat higher than that in force in the current model, and is now a recommendation rather than a legally determined coefficient. But there are no reports, again, tables or statistics that allow us to check whether that percentage is the right one according to the division of competences. As in the case of the vertical coefficient, we believe that this percentage should be determined within a budgetary process, debated with transparency and voted, where appropriate, where appropriate. We continue to apply the risk-sharing criterion which we find to be fundamentally harmful to the municipalities, and which contradicts the principle of financial sufficiency. Municipal underfunding is already endemic in Euskadi and was demonstrated as a result of the pandemic. It is, of course, throughout the State, but we believe that this should have been otherwise revised in this proposal for the Act on Contributions. COVID-19 has highlighted the crucial importance of the public, but also its limitations and inadequacies, and has also put on the table, we have understood, assumed, the importance of the role of the local when crises of these dimensions occur. Our parliamentary group Elkarrekin We can... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... of these dimensions. Our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza, considers an in-depth review of the municipal funding system to be essential, and this law was an opportunity to open that melon. For Elkarrekin Podemos, the direction is to make the municipalities key protagonists. And we also believe that they have not been taken into account beyond their presence. It is true, new thanks to the adoption of the LILE within the framework of the Basque Public Finance Council. But there has also not been agreement on this proposal within the framework of Eudel, nor has there been any comment in the handling of this law on contributions to the recommendations contained in the LILE report. Among them... for example, one, and in addition it appears in one of the, I think I recall, allegations made by another parliamentary group, in this case I believe that EH Bildu, a very concrete recommendation, which was to include a homogeneous criterion or criteria for distribution through the Law on Contributions, which would then allow outlaws to do the same, also establishing, on the basis of those homogeneous criteria, criteria for sharing between municipalities. We believe that that, well, because it was also a mistake in the calculation, not having had more in mind the report of the LILE and, if necessary, that the municipalities, the municipalities, beyond having presence in the framework of the Basque Council of Public Finances, would have had a more relevant role. And I say that the percentage that is reflected as a minimum expenditure, which is not really going to be, because it is not going to be 39%, but it is going to be really quite lower after the application of the deductions, we think it would have been appropriate to review it or, at least, to justify it with the mandatory reports and studies, both in this case and in that of the vertical coefficient. Therefore, and to conclude, both on the basis of what is stated in our allegations, as well as on the opaqueness of the process, because of the lack of supporting reports showing the reasons for the changes laid down in the new Act on Contributions, because of the fact involved and, in our view, obviously, cynical that they have been waiting ten years for an absolute majority to be able to process the new Act on Contributions and not to have to rely on other parliamentary forces in the debate and the setting of the criteria of this Act, we believe that for all this and, moreover, because of the scant role and relevance given to the municipalities that are once again the payers of the Basque public funding system, we believe that for all this there is no reason, of course, to support this Act on Contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u8	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Counciler, good morning to all. The Basque Socialists welcome the agreement reached in the new Law on Contributions for the period 2022-2026, as it will bring financial and budgetary stability, and will enable the Basque institutions to draw up the budgets for the 2022 financial year by applying the new methodology. A methodology that captures the claims of the various institutions has been demanding and, above all, highlights the incorporation of the precepts deriving from the Law on Local Institutions of Euskadi, the LILE, with a chapter specially dedicated to municipal financing, where, among other things, a minimum percentage of participation of local entities in the agreed taxes is established by law. A percentage that is also going to be higher than currently recommended. The opposition groups have criticized aspects of form and substance. However, it should be noted that a unanimous agreement has been worked out and reached within the Basque Finance Council, where all the institutions, including Eudel, are represented. And there has been no initiative or question of control of the Government by these groups to know the scope of the work on this matter. On the merits, the Counsellor of Economics and Finance has explained in detail the changes in the most significant aspects of the law. And I do not want to repeat myself, but I do think it is important to stress that the updating of the vertical coefficient by incorporating the new transfers made by the Basque Government in recent years does not involve any greater funding from the Government, since what it does is to incorporate those powers which were previously envisaged at the coefficient itself. And in any case, it wouldn't be a problem to have more budget funding, would it? But even in order to compensate for this increase in the vertical coefficient that could occur with the incorporation of these transfers, the Basque Government has increased the Social Fund by 10.5 million. Another positive aspect that needs to be highlighted. And not only does this social fund increase, which is fundamental in the management of social services by the historical territories, but it also maintains the objective of ensuring that the relative weight of the collection of each foreign Member reaches 99 % of its horizontal coefficient and, therefore, continues to seek territorial balance. Also, for some groups this law is continuous, but the truth is that this law did not need to break with the previous model, but to update and collect the agreed aspects, since one of the conclusions precisely of the LILE is that all institutions have autonomy and financial sufficiency to undertake the projects and programs of government, as well as their competences. Therefore, I conclude as I have started, it is important to highlight the agreement on a financial tool as important as the Law on Contributions, which is fundamental within our financial and fiscal system, in order to be able to draw up the budgets of the various institutions, and also to have done so within the body where they are all represented. Today, therefore, it is a day to welcome the adoption of a law emanating from a unanimous agreement, which represents an instrument of stability, which incorporates the demands made by the various institutions over the years and which confirms the solidity of the methodology used. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Collect EH... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... over the years and which confirms the solidity of the methodology used. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u12	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good morning, everyone. The law which we are able to discuss in this day is the fundamental law of securing the activity of all the institutions of the community. This law has an influence on vice, Gipu, and the inhabitants of Arbatua. It's the law that has the right influence on our daily life. Because this law fixes the distribution of resources which are available to the municipality of the town, the cities, and the joys of the population to satisfy the wants of the population, and to secure the amount of development required by this people. Today, as has already been said, we are faced with one of the basic laws for the functioning of our country's institutions. A law laying down the foundations on which municipalities, parliaments and the Basque Government must develop the policies that Basque citizens need. We can talk in this Parliament, as we do weekly, about social investment, economic development and a country with a future. But all this depends, to a large extent, on the law that we are debating today in this Parliament. But this law, so important, has been delayed for ten years. How is it really possible that the government should bring the law with ten years of delay? How can it be ten years' delay and ten years ago that this law does not solve any of the obvious problems and disturbances? How is it possible to bring a law with ten years of delay and not give an answer to the finance of municipal institutions which are closest to the local population? How is it possible for this law to be admitted five years ago in the law of the Basque Offices, that many engagements which had been made by regulations were not yet fulfilled? A lot has happened in this country for the past ten years. There have been many circumstances, and in different institutions there have also been changes of government. But, by any chance or by no chance, it's done this time between the AAE and the institutions of the country are exactly the same. And I said this, but this is not a coincidence. This agreement has been closed down in a Sabin office for ten years to change nothing and leave the problems that were on the table nearly ten years ago. 10 long years, 10 long years dizzying the loser. 10 long years announcing impending agreements at each meeting of the Basque Finance Council at the end of the year. 10 long years, in which some Members have shown their discontent, on repeated occasions, with the distribution of resources and under different-coloured governments, including the Basque Nationalist Party. 10 years, that when one starts to read this bill, the bill that we have today on the table, seems like a joke of bad taste. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this trip didn't take so much carpet. This law project does not solve the differences and deep problems of the distribution of resources which have been involved in the institutions of the past few years. And he doesn't have the right city funding to guarantee enough stability. In fact, there is no real change in the distribution of resources. We can read in memory of the justification of the law. In the first place, methodology is consistent, although a few aspects have been updated. We can do a lot about the cofficiency. That's it, we can talk a lot and a lot, but, actually, we'll be able to explain very little. There have been slight changes, especially in the vertical coefficient, but, on the other hand, in the horizontal coefficient, the one received in the previous laws has been retained, almost literally. So, in the horizontal coefficient that caused so many commotions between the almonds, there is no change. It's really amazing. The balance of financing up to now is not solved by this bill of legislation. In fact, where there's been problems, it'll be a matter of time to surface problems again. And that's no way out of this law. If the General Adjustment Fund was first set up, and later in 2019, an extraordinary fund to correct possible imbalances in the distribution of economic resources, this new law, as we have said, changes rather little with respect to the 2007 law, the only thing it does is consolidate those funds. That is, this law assumes that imbalances will follow, because no substantial change has been made to remove them from the game board. The other teams have already indicated it, but I think it's a topic to emphasize. This law is closed to this legislature, without any possibility of any real profound discussion. From the government, it's often said that the agreement is open to the government. But we didn't get a call on this law. The government has agreed to a law with the aliens. And that's how he brought her to this parliament. Live. You'll tell us that's the procedure. And that's the way it is in the law. But where is the desire to dispute and compact established by governments often? Where's the neighborhood? It's stupid... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... The desire for discussion and agreement proposed by the government? Where's the neighborhood? Is it stupid or really a way to work? Well, as has already been said, the legal procedure for the approval or processing of this law does not help much, does not help much in agreements. But, really, the lack of information and the opacity of this Government, which has not even called for even if it is, I do not know, to explain, to clarify, to give information, even to try to convince the rest of the groups of the goodness of this law, because the truth that makes it even more difficult to make these agreements. You have told us that this law is the result of a treaty in the Fiintz Basque Council, and that it is the way to do it. But we all know this deal was between the funk and the pillows. In fact, that's the way it was announced, the public was made public, and that's how it was made by the press, and by the news. And once this agreement was concluded, Eudeli was the only chance that had been granted to bind him to the treaty. The municipal councils have formerly been excluded, as secondary institutions, in the procedure of this law, and have been excluded from the method of agreeing on the subject of the municipal finance which is so important to the councils. Thus, when we collect the Basque People, it is clear that they are not in this agreement, by reflecting on the will and necessity of the councils of the community. There has been no treaty at Eudel, and there is no dispute about the text that has been presented. And this has been the case, because the agreement has not been sought, it has been attempted in another way. The topic I'm talking about about for the Rescala People gathering, the municipal funding, is essential, fundamental. Or, rather, one of the most important concerns of the EH Collectations is insufficient. For us, the Basque Country for the Collector, it is essential that the townships' autonomy should be preserved, and consequently to maintain a just fund of financing which is so important to develop their activity. But today, as we have said in the law, it cheats the local institutions. This law of Contribution deceives the special jurisdictions and a report on the financery of the different States which arose from this law. In fact, there hasn't been any discussion about the ETEL report and its consequences and recommendations in the Euskal Acadecial Council. This law, which has already made some preliminary remarks to the public, does not follow the recommendations of the ETEL report. It does not satisfy the recommendation of the budget, and of establishing homogeneous criteria for the exchange of accounts, nor does it fulfil the recommendation of the means of distribution of homogeneous criteria between the townships. It is evident that this law does not entirely conform to the advice of the local institutions and the recommendations of the ETEL report, but is left alone with the subjects that pleased them. That is to say, it has already been said that the ETEL report said that different classes of institutions had sufficient finances. With this we appeared clearly at his moment, and now we confirm it again: that is not so. It wasn't real-there wasn't a record in which the jurisdictions of different levels of institutions were not listed, and the consequences derived from it. It is true that this regulation has a new chapter on the finances of the town, and the chief physician has mentioned it, but this is the only piece of regret, the existence of the chapter, and not the content of it. Kapitulu berri honek ez duelako bermatzen udalek beren eskumenek zerbitzuak herritarei eskaini ahaliziko beharrezkoa den finantzazioa izango dutenik. It sets, as has already been said, a minimum percentage that will be allocated to the outside bodies, to the local entities, in terms of participation in the collection of the agreed taxes, but it is true that we do not know the reports that show that this amount is sufficient for the municipalities of our country to provide the services they must provide, and that these services are of quality. For many years you will silence with this law the reasons for the separation of resources between the institutions, but you have not given them any deeper solution because you have not reached the heart of the matter properly. In a word, you've lost the chance to start a new model of financing, and this town will have to come back later than soon. Today you will accept this law, Mr. Chief, but it's a political failure. You've been wandering around for years about the law, the contribution to the law below, but you've only been able to introduce this law with the absolute majority. The whole composition is opposed to a fundamental law of the fundamental institutional structure of this people, which is the way you yourselves wanted it. It's the motto of your local government, but in the transmitation of this law there's no way to work for the government. The law will be passed, but the problems will remain there. And these problems will come back... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... The law will be passed, but the problems will remain there. And they'll come again. ) These problems. This people will remain for several years suffering the effect of the unsuited design of the institutional structure and of an ancient model of financing. The opportunity has been lost. For you, it will be won, but this country loses it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you who have come, good morning. And good morning, Mr. Subalzu. And thank you for the explanation of the law. On our side, on the side of the Eucian patriots, seeing the benefits of the agreement, and you, the chief physician, for the arguments which I shall now discuss, and for the reasons which I shall give above the claims of opposition, and for the explanations which I shall give, our vote will be favourable. The main features of this bill have already been named in this debate, and I am not going to repeat much more, but I am going to summarize them because they seem very interesting and very important to me. And, in short, one, the new regulation ensures as an up-to-date and efficient mechanism that maintains the principle of balance. Secondly, the modifications incorporated in the draft respond to objective circumstances: firstly, to the necessary adjustment of the resources provided to the Basque Government by the institutions with normative and collection capacity, which are the deputies; the assumption of new transfers in the period of validity of the current rule, which are 15 years, because in the last 10 it has been extended, thus modifying the vertical coefficient, this is the percentage of the total collection intended for the Basque Government, which becomes 70.81. And secondly, the maintenance of balance in the effort of the territories, which is guaranteed by maintaining the current contribution coefficients, but by increasing the general adjustment fund that fosters interterritorial compensation and which increases from 1 to 1,45 %. Thirdly, the local authorities, which ensure that they have at least 39.23% of the agreed taxes on them, also increase their availability of funds. Thus, the three levels of Basque Administration are envisaged the adaptation of the financing methodology to its competitive characteristics in order to maintain co-responsibility, but also the sustainability of the Basque model. Thus, the next five years would be faced on a solid and consensual basis in the sharing of obligations. But what's more, I believe this law is also beyond our old customs. Don't you? That is to say, in the interinstitutional agreement, in this case the Basque Government, the three parliaments and the local authorities, and in its essence and content there is the shared risk, that the Basque institutions are in solidarity if they do not raise enough to develop their capacities and competences. And that's our model. And we believe that this model has been beneficial to Euskadi with dialogue, understanding and agreement between the three institutional levels of Euskadi: Basque Government, deputies and municipalities. Town halls, yes, and I emphasize it because some spokesmen forget their participation in this process through Eudel, and forget that Eudel gave his approval to the agreement. So that's a big deal, as I said, for fun, forduds, and City Halls, by Edels. And it's so generous and unanimous that the spokesman at the EH Collector says I'm surprised, Mrs. Pindo. The representative of EH Bildu indicated that Eudel had not had any information and that she had been denied access to it. But do you see your statement consistent when Eudel, in his press release of July 15, after approving this agreement of its executive – it was approved – qualifies the agreement as the most important milestone after the LILE and underlines the importance of the agreement to improve and increase municipal funding? Do you believe that Eudel has approved this agreement without any documentation and that, besides, without looking at any role from Eudel they have had the daring to make these statements? How can Eudel not have information when it was the one that closed the municipal minimum or when Eudel has been part of the reform working groups since the adoption of the report in 2018? You will explain to us, Mrs Pinedo, how there may be so much discrepancy between your accusations and these realities. You could perhaps contrast with the representatives of your formation in Eudel to know what you asked for and what you did not, and to see in which working group you were and in which not. But what I do know is that what is clear is that Eudel had the information he considered appropriate to approve this agreement. Another thing is that you don't like the result, but the reality is this. And because they don't like the result, the only thing the opposition did was go out in a press conference with their demands, but without asking for any documentation. Because it is also striking that you indicate that you "have not had enough information to verify the calculations incorporated in this bill", when you have not asked any questions or requests for information and documentation to the Basque Government. Nin-gu-na. Nothing. Not a single political group asked for information from the government, not a question. Nothing. And now you're complaining about lack of information. Then you say you want to make an agreement, but in this case you have not even expressed interest. Because with minimal interest they would have asked at least, as did their colleagues, their political groups in the General Councils, in the three, who have received with complete transparency all that information they have requested and which includes, among other things, the details of all the calculations. Here, on the other hand, no information has been requested, but that is, they are planted here and complain about the opacity of the Government, when all kinds of details have already been offered. I, with the information available, have been able to resolve the questions raised by the groups in their allegations of this law and have been able to verify all the calculations and all the new percentages contained in this bill. Therefore, transparency and clarity in the face of this clear demagogy. It's obvious... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... containing this bill. Therefore, transparency and clarity in the face of this clear demagogy. The goodness of the agreement is evident. It has been argued very well by the Sailburu and our group ratify it, so I will focus on responding to the questions raised by the groups in their allegations, to see if they will reconsider their position, although Sailburu anticipates that I find it difficult. Consent. It is indicated that there was no consensus or broad consensus, and several groups say so. Do you not think it is a broad consensus that it is an interinstitutional agreement, the Basque Government, three parliaments and the municipalities through Eudel, adopted unanimously, an agreement approved by the representatives of the institutions, elected by the citizens, and therefore, Mr Soto, with all democratic legitimacy?, where is the problem, which you are not in the photo? Because for example EH Bildu in the decision is, for example, through Eudel. About the procedure. I think it was the Elkarrekin Group that has commented that all these negotiations have to be done in Parliament as a parliamentary seat, and my question is which parliamentary seat, because it takes into account that we have three institutional levels, it is Parliament, the General Councils and the local authorities, because at the moment the municipalities are in the Basque Finance Council as their own entity with their own representation. So how does the debate fit into all parliamentary seats, including corporations and plenary sessions, how?, especially if it is one of its objectives to reach an agreement. But it is also not a whim either that it is the Basque Finance Council that approves this amendment of the law. This methodology is reflected in the Historical Territories Act, which was adopted in this Parliament with all democratic legitimacy. And I repeat the question of democratic legitimacy, because it has already been questioned here. Therefore, you consider this agreement not legitimate when it (?) will approve this Parliament by majority, it has been approved by the Basque Finance Council unanimously, the Basque Government, the three deputies and the municipalities, and this approval mechanism is regulated by the Historical Territories Act, which was also approved in this Parliament by those who were legitimately designated by the citizen. I assume that in the reply they will change their minds, as I find it very serious to accuse this agreement of lack of democratic legitimacy. They will not agree on other issues, but the lack of legitimacy does not seem to me to be most correct. Oh, and you said that the arrangement was hastily accepted, I think Mrs. Pindo. Do you think it's urgent for an analysis that started at 2014 with LILO in 2016, where after the end of 2018, an advance in February 2019 was accepted, and where in the course of the two years, when they've been working on fun and Eudel? At the word "Forum Europe," the chief physician also published the plan of the treaty in the word "dear" which has passed. You think that's urgent? Or rather, a profound, calm work, and a work done with experts? In order to achieve these deals, he needs a dose of agreement, discretion, an enormous job, and a large technical knowledge. So I don't know what your hasty conception is, but I wouldn't have defined it with the chain of haste. You knew he was working, but you weren't interested. Ask (... ), don't make haste now for an excuse. Jarraitzeko, éta koefizientearen aldaketen inguruan. They ask to lower the vertical coefficient to give more resources to the municipalities and the deputies. Two considerations in this regard, first, do you believe that the Basque Government should have fewer resources? And with less resources, how can we finance health, education, security, i.e. the main public services of our Autonomous Community? Then you will come within a month asking the government for more resources for the 2022 budget, because it will be in your opinion austere. They are asking to reduce the contribution to the Basque Government and in one month they will ask for more budget. Budget, Mr Gordillo, is, of course, about 97 %, the autonomous community that most implements. It is also appealing that you, being members of the Basque Parliament, should call for the Basque Government to have fewer resources. I mean, I don't know how to digest all this. And second consideration with regard to the reduction of the vertical coefficient for the benefit of municipalities and parliaments. On the basis of what do they conclude that the Basque Government should have fewer resources, and on the contrary more municipalities and outlaws?, on the basis of what? I refer to the LILE report of 2018 prepared by the expert group and its conclusion is clear, and I read literally: "The financial capacity of each of the local institutions of the CAE is very diverse at the individual level, although they as a whole have adequate funding for the development of their competences. Similarly, the different institutional levels of the EAC adequately care for the competences of each of them, with the distribution of expenditure generally reflected in a correct way." Therefore, on the basis of what do they consider the municipalities to be underfunded? We give validity to this intense work of the expert group, to the so-called LILE report, which I see in your allegations too, and this working group which has analysed in detail for two years or so the situation of the institutions concludes that their funding is adequate. And also, with certain findings. I'll give you two. It is noted that the Basque Government has a financing needs of almost... We are talking about 2015 figures, because it is on the basis of this report that almost 6% of the expenditure that does not result from their indebtedness and the three Member States, while the local authorities have a joint funding capacity of 6.6%, that is to say, the first observation: there is a deficit in funding by the Basque Government and the Member States, but there is a funding capacity by the local authorities of 6.6%. It is also noted that the revenues subject to allocation finance 92.5% of the expenditure of the Basque Government in respect of the autonomy of each institution, which is not derived from indebtedness, which is 86.1 in the Chambers and 49.5 in the local authorities. This means, therefore, of these agreed taxes that are subject to the Act on Contributions, the autonomy or funding capacity that each institution has. As far as the Basque Government is concerned, what the Basque Government needs is that it reaches 92.5%, which without that, let's say, the Basque Government could not live. The deputies live on this in 86.2, but the local entities in 49.5 %... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... That without that, let's say, the Basque government couldn't live. The deputies live on this in 86.2 but the local entities in 49.5 %. Therefore, local authorities have other very important financing capacities outside this sharing of agreed taxes, which means that this group of experts also sees a tax route at the local level that would allow them to increase their collection. And these are findings from the LILE report, from the expert group report. And now I'm going to focus on the horizontal coefficient. They indicate several groups, I think Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, which should change their calculation by modifying not only the percentage, but also the parameters that make it up. On the basis of the LILE report, as far as adequate funding is concerned and therefore its modification is not justified, I believe that we should be aware in addition to the general and legal context, the Historical Territories Act establishes, by law, the criteria to be used for the calculation of the contribution coefficient, the horizontal, and must be based on income, which is basically GDP, and the reverse of fiscal effort, which is revenue capacity. But in addition, multiple indicators are used for the calculation of GDP: demand, consumption, aggregate expenditure. Many of the indicators pointed out by the Elkarrekin group Podemos, which also today Mr Soto has stated, are already included in the calculation of GDP; and those that are not can not be used either, because the Historical Territories Act already sets the criteria. And to set an example that quotes Podemos, right?, that of depopulation. A process of depopulation indirectly affects a collection capacity and the wealth of the territory, right? If a region, for example, is in crisis, this affects its consumption, its net surpluses, its final collection and, ultimately, its gross domestic product. And that, therefore, affects the horizontal coefficient. So, Mr Soto, many of the indicators that the Podemos group points out are already included in the GDP calculation. That's about the basis of the horizontal coefficient. And with regard to the need for some groups to increase, in this case, the 30% percentage of the horizontal coefficient, I ask you: why more and not less? Have they made calculations of what effect that has on interterritorial balance? For the same criteria have been maintained because, one, there is no reason to change them, as I said before, because moreover, what parliament, which territory would accept to lose? There it is seen that it is an agreement that each institution fights for, because the LILE report notes that funding is adequate, and because it would not solve the most important imbalances with a simple change in percentage. And finally, two questions to comment on... also Elkarrekin, we can. The first, about you... according to you, contemporary challenges have been ignored in the coefficient calculations. For precisely the majority of the challenges that you point out are challenges that correspond to facing virtually all institutional levels, each in its most specific area of competence. Each will therefore have to deal with them with its own resources or, if necessary and if necessary, with specific interinstitutional agreements that will have specific funding already provided for in the regulations: 24/5 of the Historical Territories Act. Secondly, the failure to value European funds in the vertical coefficient is a matter of criticism. But if they don't, that is, they don't affect the coefficient. Receipt of funds, and any other extraordinary additional funding, shall be distributed among the institutions in accordance with their respective competences. That is to say, if, for example, a resource comes from European funds to, for example, improve the residences of older people, the amount will be allocated to the corresponding level of competence; in this case, in the example, to the deputies. That is, the vertical is for the, that is, this coefficient is for the distribution of regular funds. Then let us be clear, because they cannot base their rejection of this law on these arguments. Therefore, as you can see, this agreement aims to provide the best solution for all parties. A unanimous agreement, in order to distribute resources in order to be able to deal in the most efficient way with the policies of each institution. And I really think, and we think it's done. This law, which will be confirmed by the whole Union, is a good law for the three organization levels. We must not see who wins or loses it, I think we ought not to measure it that way. What must be observed is that financial stability and accuracy are protected, that the balance is protected and that it is answered from solidarity when it is needed. That it's a national agreement that has been accomplished for many years, but that's what's happening here, and that our team's happy about it, because we all win with his approval. And that even if it qualifies as a patchy law, because it substantially does not change anything, but I will tell you that, in fact, the agreement is continuous. It proves how difficult it is to make major changes in such a delicate matter, more so when the LILE expert report states that the funding of the institutions is adequate. Interestingly, the presence of the same acronyms in different institutions would not have served to smooth frictions. But now, the end of the most acute period of the pandemic, the beginning of recovery after the greatest economic coup, the need to have a solid system to settle it have led to an agreement. It is apparent that the time that has elapsed has not been easy, but if agreement has been reached it means that all parties are satisfied. This is a complex issue, and it has been such a long time since the agreement was conceived. However, the law needed to be updated to incorporate the ultimate competencies, to incorporate specific funding and conditional funding, for example, the impact of the euskera, into the vertical coefficient. But all this with a neutral impact. That is why I am surprised, Mr Gordillo, that you indicate that the increase in the vertical coefficient is to give more resources to the Basque Government, when what has altered the vertical coefficient has been the incorporation into it of specific funding and conditional funding. But that doesn't mean we're not... giving more resources to the Basque Government. What I should say here is that the changes have been neutral, that the recommendations of the LILE report have been incorporated, and that the Basque Government has contributed 10 million of the additional funds to strengthen social policies, even if not demanded by the expert group. And why? Because it is considered a challenge and therefore a future bet that must be met. And also the Basque Government, which contributes 50% to the adjustment fund, in that additional 0.45. Let me tell you, Mrs Pinedo, yes, a fund that has applied since 2019, since it was understood that it was a very important step for a future law, also said by Councilman Azpiazu at the February 19 press conference; that is, nothing hidden. But it is, in fact, a clear statement that the law itself has enough waist to adapt to different situations, provided that there is an interinstitutional agreement... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ...of the February 19 press; i.e., nothing hidden. But it is, in fact, a clear statement that the law itself has enough waist to adapt to the different situations, provided that there is an interinstitutional agreement, and that during its term it can adapt itself, and that so that it is not something entirely (is it watertight?)). And in this line, in its statement on the non-neutrality of the changes contemplated by this law, the People's Group requests to moderate the increase in current expenditure. But I, Mr. Gordillo, will offer you some data. The last contributions were 9,619 million; those of 18, 9,500, just-just above those of 18, well below those of 19; and those of 15, those of 2015, were 8,737 million. So, Mr Gordillo, the increase in expenditure on the budget of the Basque Government is rather against debt. That is, in 2015 he was in a situation of fiscal consolidation, deficit reduction, and consequently, greatly reducing the budget increases of the Basque Government. In the 21st, as a result of the pandemic, a very important effort has been made to combat the pandemic, with a deficit in the budget of 2021 of 2.2%. And they were not precisely against contributions, which were reduced compared to 2020, but against debt. I think you're wrong, eh?, if your group, if you want to perform such a simplistic analysis in each exercise, because so the conclusion has neither feet nor head; you know well, Mr Gordillo. For all their allegations, it is clear that it does not understand how the financing of the new competences occurs when it is a new transparency. They do not understand how it is integrated into the system as a specific funding, so that the one that must implement the competition, be it the Basque Government or the parliament, and that now the only thing that has been done has been to remove those of specific funding to incorporate them vertically; that is, in a neutral way. And by the way, three-four comments on defects in the law, which are supposed to have detected the groups, have led, or will lead to vote against this law. Elkarrekin Podemos, on the non-incorporation of new taxes into the law. Simply tell them that if the Joint Economic Concert Commission had been held, they would have been agreed, and we would be talking about those taxes incorporated in the new law. But since that meeting had not been held, the taxes that you mentioned could not be incorporated into the law. But it is also that, for example, the tax on plastic packaging and waste deposits that you quote in your allegations, is not even approved by law. That is, the law that creates them; it is not. But it's just that, I don't say "agreed" anymore, it's that the law itself isn't approved. Therefore, it is impossible to put in a law something for which you have no competence. Now, with the concertation of taxes and the beginning of the collection of taxes, of course, they can be incorporated as concerted taxes to the system, and they will or will not be adjusted, depending on many factors, as was done in their day with taxes on the value of the production of electricity. That they are not in the law, but that has not prevented them from being incorporated into the collection of agreed taxes and, in fact, their adjustment was agreed upon. That, therefore, do not worry, that when they come they will be incorporated with the appropriate adjustment mechanisms. Then they also cited the homogeneity of the criteria, which according to EH Bildu and also the People-Citizens Group, the law has not incorporated. But it's just, it's not a matter of the Contributions Act. The homogenization of accounting criteria is something that the working group asked to facilitate the analysis; for nothing else. But it is also that the Act on Contributions is not the place to incorporate accounting criteria. Where appropriate, if adopted, they should go, for example, to the specific budgetary rules, but not to this law. Euskara eta gizarte zerbitzu funtsari dagokionez, EH Bilduko ordezkariak dio LILE txostenak egindako gomendioak came out of it, batha udalei galdetu gabe. Well, ba alde battik, hori ez da horrela, éta ore Azalduk said. Alde battik, part-hartzeari dagokionez, udalek, Eudelen bitartez, prozesu bear part hartu dute. So, that "udalei galdetu gabe" thing, it's not the tightest thing. That is, obviously, there has not been an assembly of Basque municipalities, which I understand is what you intend to do, because for that you have an organ that represents them, which is Eudel. But, of course, this openness of the process we know that often hinders the consensus itself: because the debates go out, the media..., and, at times, internal and quiet work is often essential to reaching agreements. Otherwise, if we start to make the drafts public, as you said, that, in my opinion, only makes it difficult to complete the process, the style of this Basque Finance Council, which I see has been to work and a lot, but with discretion. Because their goal was to reach an agreement, and a good agreement for everyone. Eta, bestetik, LILE txostenak dioena ez tergibertsatzea eskatuko nizuke, because in the area of Basque and social funds, the LILE report says, expressly, page 126: "It is recommended to incorporate the amount contributed to the extraordinary fund". Therefore, the LILE recommendations have been clearly followed; another thing is that we do our own version of the report. I think it is great that all groups use the LILE report, and that we take it as valid to examine whether the recommendations have been incorporated into the Act. But they forget two things: to read it well, and to read the final conclusion. "They have adequate funding, and also the different levels adequately cater to the competences of each of them." Basically, it comes to say that we are all well, therefore, included in what I am talking about now, the Basque and the social background. And finally, in order to end it, the Representative asks also for the examination of transfers, because there has been no profound reflection at all. But, Mrs. Pindo, why do you think this thought would improve the law? And if you think that's the way it is, why I call EH Collectors, and PPco, you didn't ask for that deep reflection when you were on the crew, as representatives of the division? Well, because LILIL does not require that deep reflection, but a general analysis. What is to be done is with all the programmes, and with the rights of each institution, each of which has its own programs, as best and efficient as possible. Given all of the above, and in short, the municipalities have been part of this work; they have managed to shield their funding. That the changes in contributions are neutral, that the Basque Government makes an effort in social policies with additional endowments, and that the recommendations of the LILE report of the expert group have indeed been incorporated into the law. With these members I do not see that there are substantial reasons on the part of the other political groups to maintain this position so contrary to such a successful and unanimous interinstitutional agreement. They have made their typical apocalyptic readings – in my opinion – that have nothing to do with reality, I think. And I think those phrases so much in your political discourse, but they have little solidity, and I refer to my arguments. I'm just going on for the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. After that, it's my turn, Mr. Subazuki, the word is yours... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... I'll continue on the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. After that, it's my turn, Mr. Subazze, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u17	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Eskerrik asko to all for your speeches and your contributions to this debate. I would especially like to thank the honourable Member (...), Berrojalbiz, because I think she has explained a lot of things that will make it very difficult for the opposition now to remain in the positions that had initially been expressed. In July, at the end of July, the Government had sent the documentation, I believe quite extensive and concrete, to this Parliament, and the groups in this regard have been able to count on two and a half months to try to look at the information. If, of course, further clarification was needed in other areas, as in the General Boards, I know that some have, and we have had no inconvenience in sending all the information. Because, moreover, it is information that has been known for a very long time, because in all laws it operates in a more or less similar way, and we also understand that in this sense parliamentarians have to know it. Of course, unanimous agreement, on the one hand,+ between the institutions which are responsible for properly financing their competences and those which I believe are most interested, if I may, in defending their competences and their funding, and then there is a unanimous vote against the whole opposition, without nuances, without nuances. To me this, of course, it is difficult for me to understand, beyond a political pose of opposition, but a pose, if I may say so, rather unresponsible in this respect, is it not? And I find it difficult to understand, and I believe that you too, too; above all, when you have already been given some clarifications, that I believe many of them have been blunt. I'm going to try to clarify some more issues too. And in this second intervention I will try to give a comprehensive response to the allegations made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups. And first of all, I thank you, as I said before, all and all of you for the statement of your views, which are always respectable, of course, but on which I shall then comment, I have my own opinion. I anticipate you, because I do not think I have done so before, that this law certainly does not fully satisfy any of the institutional levels, and we all leave positions in the corners of the discussion, but believe me that I am convinced that it is the best of the possible rules, and hence unanimity with Eudel's participation as well, as I have said. Because here it gives the feeling for some interventions that the local level is not represented, that it has been marginalized; no, no, it has been present and has been participating and is a participant and has voted unanimously with the other institutions this bill. Mrs Grisaleña, despite not having made written allegations, your position on this project is obviously in the antipodes, and there I am not going to try to look for any approach because surely you do not want, and my approach would be even ill-considered. Secondly, Mr Gordillo, I have carefully read your allegations and heard your speech. You have presented them here today in a profuse and extensive manner and with due clarity. He has also spoken of more things, logically, and I appreciate your intervention. But, honestly, I don't share virtually any of the opinions you put into them. And I also sincerely believe that between some errors in the perception of the model and many opinions, in my opinion biased, that do not come to the case with regard to the adoption of a contribution law. The trees in the so-called LILE report, Mr Gordillo, whose main conclusions are not alluded to in your allegations, have not failed to see it from the forest to locate the rule that they are going to vote on today. To begin with, it is not true that the increase in the vertical coefficient detracts resources for the parliaments or that it detracts resources from municipal funding for the benefit of the Basque Government, Mrs Berrojalbiz has also emphasized this issue. On the contrary, the memory of the draft law of contributions clearly explains a neutral position with regard to the current situation, and, if necessary, more beneficial for the outside and local entities, especially for the latter as it turns into unconditional resources today finalists, even increases them. That is to say, equal powers plus unconditional local funding. To think that the percentage increase in the vertical coefficient implies greater and better funding from the Basque Government is not to understand the system of distribution of resources according to the competences. That the model of contributions should contemplate the importance of care policies, he says in one of his allegations, we also believe that it is wrong. The contribution law is to establish a method for calculating the funding of the Basque Government through the resources from the Economic Concert in the form of contributions, and not to establish guidelines for spending policies, an issue that each institutional level must assume through budgets. By the way, does it not seem biased to you to say, as you do in your second and tenth allegations, that if anything has revealed the crisis of COVID19 is the importance of care policies, largely managed by outlaws and local authorities? I think it's been important too. But what cannot be forgotten is the true transcendence of public health and health policies, the exclusive competence of the Basque Government. To me, of course, I do. In addition, there is no list of powers of the three institutional levels and no allocation of resources to each of them, and in order to justify this a lack of accounting homogenization between the way in which expenditure is accounted for by outlaws and local authorities, not by the Basque Government, which points out that the LILE report is certainly disheartening, biased and out of focus. Look, I said this in my first speech, the law of contributions that we are dealing with today, and which is already the tenth with that name, is not to put money into the competences or to make a list of them, but to appreciate since the last law passed the variations that have occurred, as well as the impact that LILE has entailed, and to seek an interinstitutional balance that provides a lasting financial sufficiency at all institutional levels. And I think this is done with this project. I agree with you, Mr Gordillo, that this law could have been brought before this Parliament and that the general adjustment fund is still being maintained as a method of compensating for possible imbalances in the horizontal model. But the reality is that even the extensions of the previous law have not caused distortions in the budgets of the... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to compensate for possible mismatches in the horizontal model. But the reality is that neither the extensions of the previous law have caused distortions in the budgets of the Basque administrations nor has a better method been found to adjust the calculation of the horizontal coefficients, extreme the latter already agreed since February 2019 and that today the law does nothing but ratify. In conclusion, Mr Gordillo, as I have seen very well from the municipal funding and quite enthusiastic of the conclusions of the LILE report, I would just like to remind you that this report finds that there is a greater dependence on the revenue subject to allocation in the case of the Basque Government and the outlaws, than in the case of the local authorities, in line with the different relative weight of income at each institutional level, own income, final income or income derived from indebtedness. It notes that while the shareable revenue for all local entities represents 45,7 % of the total revenue, the percentage increases to 78,3 % on average in the outlaws and to 84,5 % in the case of the Basque Government. And I don't think many of those percentages have varied from 2015 to here, Mrs Berrojalbiz has explained it perfectly. In short, as I believe that this bill maintains a perfect balance of funding at all three institutional levels, and as it is the result of a broad inter-institutional consensus, I have no choice but to ask for the favourable vote of your group, Mr Gordillo. Of course, I would not understand – or it would be very difficult to explain after the statements, even, that there has been – that your group voted against a project that is very positive for all the citizens; that it is very positive for the normal functioning of the institutions; that the institutions, which are responsible for guaranteeing these funds and their competences, have approved it unanimously; and that you – I believe that partly because of misinformation, if I may – are going to oppose it, I would say that, just because you are in the opposition. Legitimate, but that's the fact. Thirdly, the Elkarrekin parliamentary group We can, through its written allegations, the intention – today Mr Soto has used a series of arguments that fluctuate between what I consider, Mr Soto, I say to you with affection, a certain lack of knowledge of the internal interinstitutional financing model of Euskadi – the value judgments and some doctrinal positions in relation to the neoclassical economic paradigm that I consider respectable, but which, as far as today's issue is concerned, I think are quite extravagant. I begin with the knowledge of the internal financing model. The claim that shared risk is an invention is not maintained, since precisely the principle of shared risk is one of the cornerstones, not only of the methodology of distribution between Basque institutions of the resources derived from the management of the agreed taxes, but also of the Economic Concert itself towards the State. Nothing, therefore, that looks like the creation of any peculiar figure – then I will return to this topic – when talking about financial sufficiency. And the procedure used to agree and approve the methodology that brings us here today is covered by both the Statute of Gernika and the Territorial Law and the LILE. These last two rules adopted precisely in this Parliament, so it is difficult, Mr Soto, to argue that this procedure or that the Basque Finance Council, which was set up by the Historical Territories Act itself, lack democratic legitimacy, or that they operate in an obscurantist manner. In short, this bill, which is put to the vote in this House, is the ratification of an agreement between executives, as the rules emanating from the Act itself have wanted to do. You may like it more or less, but anti-democratic, of course, you have nothing even the voting procedure. Do not understand that the law that we bring here today moves in areas already set by other rules and want, through it, to modify those rules indirectly, is not to know the institutional role of the Law on Contributions. Value judgement, it also seems to be trying to say that there is a lack of rigour in the calculations and that no documentary support or studies on the assessment of competences have been provided. This is not the first Act on Contributions, which could perhaps justify these requirements, but it is the tenth that this methodology is submitted to Parliament for consideration, so it has been taken into consideration with documentary input, precisely those objective elements that allow to verify the variations in the division of competence between the last Act on Contributions and the latter, which has also been joined by the contribution of the conclusions of the general analysis of competences, report carried out following the mandate of the LILE. Moreover, as I said at the beginning, they have not asked for information either. This advisor is available to talk to any group at any time and send any information or give any clarification. If so far it has not been taken into account, I believe that we can also take this into account for the future. This report, moreover, the LILE, is talking about the principle of shared risk, far from ignoring that the municipalities lack regulatory capacity in fiscal matters, which is also false, concludes that the municipalities have a higher fiscal route than the rest of the Basque institutions, since they do not depend so much on the revenues derived from the management of the agreed taxes, as is the case with the common institutions and the outside bodies. Being the most doctrinal part of its obligations to identify the neoclassical economic paradigm, based on the principle of budgetary stability, and to advocate a functional hacienda scheme that corneres arbitrary scholastic rules that do not relate to the well-being of citizens, it is certainly a political option, but today, Mr Soto, we are not talking about economic models because it does not touch. The scheme that you propose in what is a concrete economic model, is now far from reality, because the principle of reality makes contributions, like any other law, to move in the economic environment of the European Union and, in this case, we are not talking about what to spend: the wage gap, climate change, etc., as you say, but about how to distribute the revenues obtained from the agreed taxes according to the competences of each institutional level. On the other, how, where and how much we will spend we will talk about it in less than a month in this Parliament when we talk about budgets. This Act on Contributions should not be confused with spending policies, i.e. the Budgets Act or the tax policy applicable to the Basque Autonomous Community, which are implemented by corresponding tax rules. The Act on Contributions seeks to give satisfaction to the interinstitutional balance in the area of financial sufficiency. And, in this sense, the principle of shared risk does not contradict this financial sufficiency, and less that of the municipalities, since no law... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... in the area of financial sufficiency. And, in this sense, the principle of shared risk does not contradict this financial sufficiency, and less that of the municipalities, since no law subsequent to the LILE report, as far as the common institutions are concerned, has entailed financial burden for the municipalities. Rather, the final conclusion of the LILE report states that the local institutions of Euskadi as a whole have adequate funding for the development of their competences, as well as the various institutional levels of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi adequately cater to the competences of each of them, with the distribution of expenditure generally reflected in a correct way. Mrs Berrojalbiz has also made reference to this issue, which I think is really also important. In conclusion, Mr Soto, this law only sets out a methodology for the distribution of the proceeds from the management of the Economic Concert, and as such, of course it takes into account all the agreed tax figures, even those in which you cite in your pleading document, and takes into account the current jurisdictional division, and all institutional levels we have agreed that this is the best possible distribution rules at this time. That is why, although I can understand that it seems to you to be more fair to assign a higher weighting, 30% of the tax effort is the percentage we have agreed on and to which I must adhere. In conclusion, and as I have said to Mr Gordillo, I also ask you to vote in favour, unless you are not so opposed to your political position on this law, that the others understand that it is so favourable. We can't all be so confused and so far away. That is why I would ask you to vote in favour. But, well, you'll decide. Fourthly, I must point out to Mrs Pinedo that EH Bildu is the only parliamentary group that, at least in the allegations, does not request the return of the bill, but the suspension of its processing, that a law with a broader view be developed. In any case, those who have requested the return, I imagine they will have an alternative model capable of having sufficient consensus to be approved in this House. I have my doubts, too. Of course, Mrs. Pinedo, having arrived at this processing moment, it is impossible. But besides, we don't agree with reason. Hala prozedurari badagokionez, zuek bayeztatu duzue hiru erakunde malaren artean adostasunik ez dagoela eta akordio hori ez dela bilatu, negozio prozesuan udalerriak kanpoan utzi direlako. Baina nire lehen hitzaldian adriazi doubezez, Herri Dirubideen Euskal Kontseiluaren barruan akordioa aho batez hartu zen, organ horretan ordezkatuta daden erakunde guztien artean hartu zen. That is why it is false to point out that the majority has been imposed without reaching a broad consensus, and this has been for the benefit of the Basque Government and the outside parliaments so that they can approve their budgets for the financial year 22; when nothing has to do with reaching consensus with the adoption of the budgets of 22. On the contrary, not only has there been a broad consensus, but all Basque public administrations will be able to draw up and approve the budgets for the year 22, precisely with this new methodology. On the other hand, the procedure for discussing and approving this bill should not make it possible, because no law requires it, to reach an agreement between different political sensitivities, but to sanction an agreement reached between institutions; that is, between the executive branches, since that is what the Territory Act and the Statute itself wanted. You may or may not agree with the procedure, but it is the current procedure. As to content, EH Collect has made a description of it, and has concluded, without making any essential change in methodology, that the problems surrounding the horizontal coefficient remain in it, and that time is a matter of time to reappear in the conflict. This, of course, is the value of a judgment, and I do not agree with that judgment. Not just me, but the organization agreement. We don't know what's going to happen in the next few years, we know we've got the balance, and we've all agreed to give a legal category to something that's working from February 2019. EH Bildu also devotes itself in his allegations to glossing over the chapter devoted to municipal financing, but, however, forgets the general conclusion of the LILE report regarding the financial adequacy of the municipalities where it is found, as I have already pointed out to Mr Soto, that the local institutions of Euskadi as a whole have adequate funding for the development of their competences, as well as that the distribution of expenditure between the institutional levels of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi adequately meets the competences of each one. I must recall again that not all the recommendations and conclusions of the LILE report should be incorporated into the agreement and its next law on methodology, since both the Basque Public Finance Council and the institutions represented there are also addressed directly to them. Thus, it is not necessary to include in this law the homogeneous criteria of budgetary imputation and consolidation of accounts, nor those recommendations to the historical territories in relation to the exercise of their powers of financial guardianship or those which may affect the territorial financial councils in relation to the application of Articles 111 to 115 of the Law. Finally, in the face of criticism for not taking into account the will of the municipalities for the adoption of the agreement, that is, that LILE itself wanted the municipal will to be expressed through the association with greater representativeness. And I can assure you that the agreement has taken account of Eudel's opinion, not so, as it is understandable, of each and every one of Euskadi's local entities. This applies both to the adjustments in the vertical coefficient relating to the policies of promotion and planning of the Basque region and to the social services fund, both recommendations included in the LILE report, in which Eudel also participated. Therefore, thanking the tone of your speech, within your legitimate right to oppose it, Mrs Pinedo, and in the light of a strong opposition to the approach of this project, I would also humbly ask the Bildu group to reconsider the situation, as I have asked the rest of the parliamentary groups, so that, on the basis of these clarifications, we may be given a margin of confidence and not always in opposition by opposition, but that we make a positive contribution to a law of contributions which is extremely positive for the institutions that we are here too... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and we are not always the opposition for the opposition, but we are making a positive contribution to a law of contributions which is enormously positive for the institutions that we are here today as well as for the citizens as a whole, which is obviously the most important. Finally, I should like once again to thank the representatives of the parliamentary groups who support the Government for their interventions and their support for the important consensus reached among the Basque institutions so that each and every one of them will have a balanced distribution with sufficient financial resources to deploy their spending policies over the next five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u18	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Passing on the answers, Mist, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm going to be very brief in this reply, and what I'm going to summarize is basically Vox's position on this bill that we don't share either in the forms or in the background. After ten years of gestation, they present us quickly and running, protected by their absolute majority, as I said before, and with the certainty that, whatever happens, it will come forward, but also, with the negative vote of all opposition groups, groups that, moreover, we have nothing to do with each other, but that you have managed to gather in a clamorous not in the vote against your bill. We have to acknowledge that it is an achievement of this Government, of dialogue and of agreement. They have achieved the opposition's consensus. They consolidate with this bill the Basque Government as the administration of the administrations, necessary intermediary, recipient of huge amounts of money that are then distributed as best suited to them. More and more money, more and more opaque. But since there is no resistance, because they already handle everything, there is no problem. Then they dress it with their empty words of content: "the best law of all possible, the law that this country needs." But what country? Because the Basque Country is a community, not a country. Let's start from that base. They bet without blush for the centrality of their Government, reducing the weight of the provinces and municipalities. More and more, the entire Government; and less and less, parliaments and municipalities. Increasingly, money is spent where there is no contact with the citizen; and less, where the relationship with him is close. That centrality, moreover, which you criticize the Government of Spain and impose here. That law that you are going to pass today is confirmation in addition to territorial inequalities. It is the consolidation of the differences that grow over the years. Hence the undisguised happiness of the deputy general of Bizkaia. I asked him in my first speech: Why have they managed to get some of the direct taxes that were previously shared among all the historical territories now to remain in the estate that collects them, especially the tax that taxes energy production? Was that one of the points to be able to agree on this bill? That's something he hasn't answered, too, and I'd be interested to know. The adjustment fund, Mr Azpiazu, should not increase from 1% to 1.45, should reach 0%. Why? Because that would indicate that there are no inequalities between the territories. Of course, Álava and Gipuzkoa are the ones who have voted in favour of this increase, because we are the ones who have the most inequality, unlike the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry. It is an advance of what is going to happen in this legislature: that we will always be against what you do, because you do it on a roll basis and little room for manoeuvre leave us. As I have told you, today they have managed to bring together all the opposition in this House to reject their project, which was also brought by the back door, without making it possible for us to make any kind of amendment, as if it were also an uncomfortable process to go through as quickly as possible. A demonstration of what for you we are the groups that dare to oppose your pretensions, your obsessions. Mr. Azpiazu, I'm going to tell you something by responding to what you told the Vox group. Never will your approach be seen badly by my team, never, make it very clear; on the contrary, try and see how cordial the answer is. We will always be critical of what we do not share, but I think that is what this Parliament is about, is it not, Mr Azpiazu? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u20	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. And many thanks to Mrs Berrojalbiz that the truth that has given us so much more data than the counselor himself, but, come on, a quantity of data that I did not know so much of them. I have been looking at whether, in the parliamentary questions, Mrs Berrojalbiz had asked the Government, but I have not seen them being asked in that way. I don't know, the truth is, I guess you'll have, because I don't know, a tremendous amount of information, right? We would appreciate it if you could share it with the other groups, because I believe that the main argument for this, of the debate we are discussing here today, is what we have commented on. In other words, the negotiation process and the process, in the end, of passing this law that we all know comes from a negotiation that is behind closed doors. Mrs. Berrojalbiz very well says: "man, we are not going to be publishing drafts, because this... ". I don't know exactly what phrase he said, but he said, "It's that it makes people nervous, it's that it's bad, it creates trouble." Man, I think transparency is very important in economic matters. I also believe that it is very important, that it would have been very important, that the government, perhaps, would have told the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the Councillor, in July, that it wanted to come and explain this to us. I, honestly, expected that to be the procedure. The truth that I think I have sinned with trust, because, man, the usual government procedure is always the same: if you are asked questions concerning a matter that you consider to be going on, you say no, that you will already give explanations when you finish it; if you are done when you are done, you say "Ah, no, it is that you forgot to ask before". Man, I think we played here a little bit the argument this dog and cat from... is that he's already missed his right to ask. Well, man, I think he's a little poor, actually. Above all, the fundamental issue... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It's just that you've already lost your right to ask. Well, man, I think he's a little poor, actually. Above all, the fundamental issue, Mr Azpiazu, and you, I think, agree with me, is that the agreement that has been reached at the Basque Finance Council and that brings us here today must be an act of faith on our part, but furthermore, in this I have to admit that you are sincere, because your words will be in the diary or believe me that it is the best possible agreement. Actually, we'll have to... I mean, here it puts us in the weed of having to believe it, because of course, with the analysis of the roles that it has presented to us, man, the Public Employment Act I think are two volumes, (?) reports, public sector bills, etc., and even the very brief Body and Scale Act because it brings a series of reports that are very comprehensive, so I don't understand why it doesn't bring it, so it's something that worries me that the laws don't come with the proper justification. I understand that the group that supports the government because it does not ask for explanations, but what happens is that, man, from there, if it does not ask for explanations, it has almost stolen the turn, because I believe that Mrs Berrojalbiz, whom I insist, I would appreciate all that information that she handles because if she shares it I think it would be very positive for this House and for these parliamentarians, that unlike what I thought I heard, because I think I have heard her say that parliamentarians have to defend the government, man, I don't know. I believe that parliamentarians have to defend the citizens, but surely I have heard it wrong. Let us see, Mrs Pérez Ezquerra has made a short, brief speech, as we know, because the truth is that it seemed to me a much shorter speech in which the truth is that she is trying to establish support, support for the Government, but of course, leaving it to the Government to justify it. We have been told several times in the various speeches, both that of Mrs Berrojalbiz and that of the Councillor, that no, that this is an institutional agreement, and so on. Man, I here what I see almost almost was an agreement, I don't know, almost the PNV with itself, because man agreement between institutions and look at them in all institutions, if they didn't rule in all institutions because I don't know if they would have reached an agreement of these characteristics. So, man, this methodology, Mr Azpiazu, which you have, I don't know if you consider it to negotiate, to bring us here already a closed agreement, to tell us "this is the best agreement and there is not going to be a better one." And besides, if you don't vote for it favorably, it's that you're either disloyal or such, for man, I think that's not how this works. Disloyals don't put it in your mouth, I want to tell you what it is that you (?) comes here with an agreement, with figures, which are not providing the necessary information to justify it. Mrs Berrojalbiz, for her profession outside of politics, knows that accounting notes must be or must be supported by some documentation. Man, and here also the whole Law of Contributions, its complexity, with a square of these characteristics, that this is the information that brings us, man, I think that better could have been done, of course you have funding in your own department to do so. He says, "No, they haven't asked us anything, they've asked us before." Hey, we've collected almost all the information we've been able to get the truth from there, but of course, you guys (?This is in July, which by the way, we ask you the questions. Now you are answering questions from the end of July, because of course, you don't take a little time to answer either, we send you the questions, extension, I don't know what. In the end, the questions take a long time. So, of course, you're playing a little late today. No, we present the agreement, parliamentary holidays, we present the questions, no, come, we let the time pass, no, now I come here, I appear, no, I will answer the questions. It has been very clear, very open, very transparent. No, it is a tremendously complicated issue, as you well know, the calculation of the coefficients, the horizontals have not touched them, you see that that was a complicated issue to negotiate, even for your own party, and they have touched the vertical coefficients, that the truth is that they could give us, I don't know, some kind of explanation a little more developed. No, it is that the costs for the competences assumed and so on are increased, some, prisons, yes, the social issue is not, and then above all, no, no, it is that as the transfers to be made to the parliaments for the social issue are going to increase, we have to have greater participation, but man, because let me leave the money to the parliaments, if the money is going to end up in the parliaments, which are going to develop the social issues, the competences in social matters, because let me leave it to the parliaments. It's just that this looks a lot like an eye-to-eye calculation, actually, it looks a lot like an eye-to-eye calculation. And then I insist again, a resource-grabbing eagerness when then we leave ourselves quite unexecuted. This is Mrs. Berrojalbiz. We just left... Look, let's see, in investments, 2020, 62% is executed. No, it's just that Mr. Gordillo, you too... is that 2020 was a complicated year, you're right, let's go to 2019, 50% was executed only, chapter investments. Man, Mr. Gordillo, 2019 complicated year, come, 2018 57% execution, is that this... And we can keep pulling back. So, man, and the argument you're telling me is that it's a fallacious argument, I think you haven't said fallacious, it's not what you usually bring in your speeches, but similar, it said, it doesn't really detract resources, this what it does is it organize proportions and such. Man, the argument that was used in the previous Act of 2007 clearly said it, no, no, as it went from 70.44 at the time to 70.04, it said the law, it said, this is a translation of resources to local entities. Man, it's getting bigger. if reducing the coefficient is a translation of resources to local entities or what it was at the time, since today increasing the coefficient will be to draw it from the entities. I mean, maybe not, no, it tells me not, because listen, because nothing, nothing, listen, the argument is not worth it. Then you explain it to us. We may hear you in some forum where you are preached, and you do it very well, and I am a faithful follower of you and perhaps there I can understand you better, but I insist, I am sure it is a subject of mine, that it will not be a subject of yours. This Law on Contributions, Mr Azpiazu, will be a Law on Contributions or the Law on Contributions with the least support of this House. (?) You will be able to criticize me, you will also criticize Mrs Pinedo, Mrs Martínez, but in the end, the truth is that you have managed to agree to the whole opposition, and look at you, the (?) Ideological that there may be here, but I believe that the arguments that are repeated are similar, they are similar. Look, our group is perfectly... not only a supporter, it's that you need, you need and you obviously need a contribution law, but a contribution law that's clear, transparent and where citizens, people, obviously have the guarantee that the... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... let it be clear, let it be transparent and where the citizens, the people, obviously have the guarantee that the allocation of resources has to do with burdens, with expenses, with compensation for competences, with the development of certain social issues, and not that in a closed room we have locked ourselves up and come, is that Bizkaia now has a lot, has a little bit, is that Gipuzkoa now has to be compensated, is that Álava has to be compensated on the other hand, because come, let's make an eye here, come, 0,3, 0,2 the 0. Of course, moving a tenth of this is moving a few hundred million, as you know, some hundred million. That is why our group is opposed, but we do it sincerely, we are opposed, but we are doing it well for this to be reworked and above all for information to be brought to us. It's just that it's not up to anyone to bring in a law, so simply, altering something as important as coefficients, no, no, you have to ask at the moment. Look, I think that argument falls by its own weight. But the problem is that this methodology rains on wet, Mr Azpiazu, because we immediately have the budgets and will bring back to the House the budgets that will be the best, the most social, the most egalitarian, the ones of recovery, if I already make the speech here. And then they will say or take it or leave it and, if they do not take it, listen badly for you, because you are not contributing to the welfare of society. That is why we refuse, Mr Azpiazu, and that is why we will maintain our negative vote. Still, it's been an interesting speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u22	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u23	Thank you, Counselor, for the explanations you have given us. The truth is that I don't know whether to answer the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party or you because, basically, you have shared much of the arguments. I will start with the final part, which Mr Gordillo commented on the lack of motivation and justification for the percentages in the document. I, the truth is that in this sense, and it will certainly be an exception in the history of this House, but I agree with him. I am quite convinced that if we do not have documentation to justify and justify the reason why these are the percentages, it is because, in fact, the reason why they have been set is more a political balance, indeed a closed space, which we know little about in terms of the content of these talks, and not so much a detailed analysis, than if it had been so, for sure it had been accompanied by the document which presents us today the reasons why it rises from 1% to 1.45% of the compensation fund or from 70.04 to 70.81 or 39% of the minimum coefficient for the municipalities that we believe this had come, probably very well justified. Tell us, man, if they'd asked because they knew, it seems a little... Finally, to derive the responsibility that such substantial elements contained in this law of contributions have not been accompanied to the law, and we are told, well then, to have asked, if 10 years have gone by the... Yes, yes, the document is, but the justification and reasons why these percentages are applied are not. Furthermore, we believe that if that is the case, then too, that the territorial imbalances, in terms of assessment of origin, that is, starting from a prior analysis of the territorial imbalances or also, for example, of the European funds, which were said to be "no, this does not have to be accommodated here", in so far as there is an imbalance in relation to the projects of the European funds that it welcomes to each territory or with each reality, it should have a certain reflection of the imbalance of origin that could be compensated by the percentages of distribution, as well as with the competences, as well as with the situation of the municipalities, which you will share with me, which have less regulatory capacity in terms of income. And that, in addition, as regards the element of shared risk, it has been a cause for complaint about how municipalities have been influenced by the last crisis we have experienced from the pandemic and, subsequently, by the reduction of the environment to 15 and 20% of their income by the parliaments. We understand that there is a need to reflect in this sense; that the municipalities come out more harmed in the system of distribution is evidence, not only in Euskadi, it is true that in the rest of the state it is even worse; that it would be that the GDP already reflects at the beginning, because it is the basic criterion on which the distribution is articulated, that the GDP reflects the differences of income, as has been said, seems to us a doctrinal error, if you want to use that term, it seems to us a mistake, because using this criterion, as you will surely share, is a regressive criterion. That is to say, we believe that to suggest that GDP as a single or fundamental element of reflection of income differences between territories is not for us to be the one to be and, indeed, the same corresponds to a doctrinal element, I do not know, therefore, we are also here to question basic and substantive elements that then motivate the implementation of these types of policies. Ten years of delay we do not believe that it is random, that is, that is, that it is a good thing, it is 10 years of delay in connection with the many negotiations that have had to take place in the field of the various governments, which obviously want to maintain the financial sufficiency of their own institutions. That is for sure, sure that the different governments have wanted to maintain financial sufficiency, some of them have come years without it and complain about that issue. But we believe that the fact that it took 10 years is because basically there was not the ability to summon in one space representatives of governments from different institutions that reflect a very clear majority in which the PNV is the predominant element, as when it comes to Eudel, so in the end. Apart from the fact that the reports on which the government is continually basing its position on the municipal level, it seems to us that they are certainly quite obsolete reports, because it is true that one is 2018, based on data from 2015. Where are the data...?... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... municipal level, it seems to us that they are certainly quite obsolete reports, because it is true that one is 2018, based on data from 2015. Where are the current data that reflect that the financing of municipalities is effectively sufficient? I tell you that we believe that there is no data to support it today, beyond majorities that are very interested in certain organs. We will not be able to share or change our position on this in our final vote. But, and I will tell you, for a fundamental issue that I said at the beginning and that you may consider more in form than substance, and that is, I say it again, because much of the changes that arise are not justified and motivated. Moreover, we consider that what is a territorial imbalance is maintained in view of the increase in the compensation fund, that is to assume that there will always be a territorial imbalance and that, therefore, it must be compensated, but then, a posteriori, not of origin, a posteriori. And that a priori we will not apply criteria that correct these imbalances. Or, if so, if they are applied, well, if they are based on GDP, on elements that do not reflect for us what later turns out to be what motivates the use of the compensation fund. In other words, what ends up being the cause of the use of compensation are certain imbalances that are neither accepted nor indicators that are reflected in the contribution law. Why? He tells us, no, because it shouldn't be like this, it hasn't been done like this. Well, anyway, this was the perfect time to change it. So, well, just to focus on what I have already told you, that we will maintain our position and that, of course, we would have loved it and we would have liked it to have been another, surely you too. But that also requires dialogue, not, of course, just waiting to start that dialogue on the basis of the questions put by the parliamentary groups in this House. If we don't ask, then we don't talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u24	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists? He mustn't speak. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u25	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr. Below, I must confess, you have attempted to explain the benefits of this law to me today. But perhaps, in my first speech, I have said that if you tried before, there might be a chance. And that's how we expressed it in a July press conference from EH, but unfortunately he hasn't been wanting to talk about it from this government. In this discussion I have been talking about Eudel, and I have received various assertions, some in a better tone, some in a very low tone. But I'm not on the Open Web page, July 9th, "Modick and Aaba, Biska and the Gipuzian Forducts have got a pre-profit for the new law of contribution to 2022-2026. " This was opened, the agreement broke in between fun and pillows. There's no Edel on this press note, it's not Edel, it's a deal between fun and pillows. That's July 9th. And on the 15th of July, it is true that the Basque Council of the People was assembled, and in this it was that Eudel made his affection. That's all. And other things can be told, but this is an open press note, not the Basque People. I can understand that today you want to stress on the part of the government and the groups that support the government that this law brings cohesion, that there is a unanimous endorsement – I think I have just explained myself about this unanimous endorsement – that it brings financial stability, even at some point the representatives have said that it captures all the demands of all the institutions. It is a good thing that the counselor then comes to matize, as he usually says, and says that this law may not satisfy all institutional levels. It is a good thing that, from time to time, the Councillor, and I must thank him always, mutters the sentences of some of the groups that support the Government, what a telite, telite. I can understand it being said again dialogue, understanding and agreement, but it is that dialogue and understanding and agreement, after ten years where the institutions of this country have on successive occasions put problems and have explained problems of the law of contributions that was in force, and that it turns out that dialogue and understanding and agreement arrive – oh surprise – when the PNV manages an absolute majority in this institution, because let me put the dialogue, understanding and agreement into quarantine, which we have recently used quite that word. There has been talk of the Historical Territories Act, whether it is legitimate or not legitimate, less evil than it has been talked about later that another representative has said that, from my mouth nothing has come out in that regard, but at least we will have, at least we will have the right to perhaps be against or to question or not like the LTH, for example. And that is why we also say that these funding laws do not meet the needs of all institutional levels. Today it has been said again and again that the LILE report, which was about the LILE report, has very clear conclusions and so on. I recalled the counselor's appearance when he came to explain that LILE report, and I remember perfectly my speech. And I was clear in saying that, well, we picked up that report but we were very critical of the general conclusions of that report, even the starting point of that report. Because that report, from the beginning of the report itself, announced that it would not analyse the use of competences, duplications or the proper allocation of resources for the corresponding competences. If that was the origin, what are we talking about? I mean, where is it that these conclusions are so perfect because it says that all institutional levels have financial sufficiency, when you don't talk about the... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... that these conclusions are so perfect because it says that all institutional levels have financial sufficiency, when we do not talk about duplication, about the correct allocation of resources between the different administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community. We can praise it, we can use it as it is deemed appropriate, as has been said, I read it to myself, and we analyze it at that time, but, honestly, you can't make a reading... Well, because each one does the reading that corresponds, but we are clear that that reading that we did when the counselor came to explain it, with two years and peaks – if I don't remember badly – of delay regarding what the Local Entities Act indicated, by the way, is said, we continue to maintain it and continue to give us reason. We are told that where we get local entities, edo udalek, ez daukatela finantzazio nahikoa. Nik ez dakit zein udaletan ibili izan zareten zuok, bath galdetu udaletako jendeari. Galdetu has beaten the age of Zinegotzi the age of alkato. Eta, gehiago cuckoo, yellow Eudeli. Begiratu, exacten da beti... gaur esan izan da udalak kontuan izan say it, éta kontuan izan say the law Honetan, éta mahaia bordinan daudela, éta ez ez say it alde will beat uzzi. Baina Gero, Batzuetan, Gertatzen will say Gertatzen direnak. Eta, Eudel, Eudelek berak, in all the alert reports he makes, of early warning he makes Eudel, always-always-alert of the lack of analysis, of the financing and of the resources of the municipalities. If the municipalities are so taken into account, why does Eudel, constantly, in all his early warning reports, have to leave this phrase written, black on white? Look, when it is said that it was time, that circumstances have led to this agreement, and I believe that Mr Soto, who has preceded me, has said so; I, in my first speech, have said so. You can dress the saint as you see fit. Each of you saw the saint as you wish. But it's been 10 years since we've heard Members cry, cry out with funding problems, cry out that resources were not being distributed well. Deputations of many colors. I even remember a deputy general who refused to support an agreement in a Basque Finance Council regarding a distribution of resources, because he believed that his deputy was ill-treated, without going to assess whether it was correct or incorrect, but that has happened. Not during these ten years, even in the space of the previous law, from 2007, to its theoretical expiration date. Therefore, let's not say that everything has gone honey on leaves, because I insist, if the LILE report says that everything is perfect, that the financing of the institutions of this country has to be, that everyone has enough funding, then why have there been so many disagreements between the institutions of this country for ten years to agree a law of contributions? What happened, that it was a whim of the institutions, that they didn't know they had financial sufficiency and it turns out they did but they protested, I don't know, because it seemed to them that they had to protest? Because even, I insist, parliaments governed by the PNV have come to show those disagreements. Therefore, sincerely, denying evidence seems to me that sometimes it does not help us. I understand that you want to praise the goodness of this law; I understand. And they consider this law to be the best thing that could happen to this country; it seems fantastic to me. But I insist, we will see again how, sooner than later, problems will be put on the table between the different institutions. Because this is not the first time, because we have been listening to this at the different institutional levels of this country for 40 years; this is not new. It's just that we've been doing this for 40 years, and that's why some of us have been saying that we have to deal with institution financing in a different way. And if it has to be something related to the LTH, it will have to be, but let us not sacrifice the laws here because they have been passed in this Parliament. Which, of course, are in force? Yeah. That they are approved in this Parliament? Yes, but let's not sacrifice them. Because you constantly tell others not to sacrifice the Constitution, so do not sacrifice the laws that are passed in this Parliament. And I insist, you will take this law out, you will sell it as a great achievement, you will say it is an agreement between the three institutional levels of this country, but many municipalities in this country will continue to have financing problems. Many municipalities in this country will continue to face problems in meeting the needs of citizens in their municipalities. And you'll say it's a great achievement. Well, look, like that one said, the fat bitch for you, but the problems are going to follow. They're going to follow. And municipal funding for this country remains an outstanding issue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, we have a complex system. Here there is no estate: there are three that deal with tax collection. That is not the case in the State, is it? Because there is a central wealth, that of the State. But here, in a small territory, existing as there are three estates, with an important tax power and the power to collect, such misadjustments are generated. Of course, who said there's no misadjustment? But, over the years, these misadjustments have been resolved, or are being gradually resolved, which has led to the institutions, from a financial point of view, to have sufficiency and stability of sufficiency and economic stability. Because no one has said, Mrs Pinedo, that there are no things to adjust. Because, I want to tell you that, in the end, this is still an agreement. An agreement between three parties: an interinstitutional agreement, deputies, three deputies, municipalities... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... I want to tell you that, in the end, this is still an agreement. An agreement between three parties: an interinstitutional agreement: parliaments, three parliaments, municipalities via Eudel and the Basque Government. And it's the best deal that's been made between different parts, that each one fights for his own. And in an agreement you have to leave things in the tinter, you have to know how to give in, but, of course, you are more of red lines and the thing about giving in because it doesn't go, it doesn't go with you. But they don't care, they don't listen to the arguments put forward, everyone comes here to tell their own story without taking care of what other groups bring, in my case. And in fact, EH Bildu continues to reaffirm himself in his criticism of how to proceed with the municipalities. I would tell you, as a fact, that, due to the last municipal law, the status that the municipalities have had in the Basque Finance Council – and don't read me headlines, that is, I go to the law – has increased and that they already have their own representation. Earlier, someone said that only representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party are present at the Basque Finance Council. Neither, because there is also some mayor of EH Bildu in the Basque Finance Council. Therefore, the municipalities have their own status at the Basque Finance Council, regardless of what Mrs Pinedo says. Therefore, when it comes to making decisions, it is done by the Basque Finance Council, but also by the municipal level. In fact, the sign of this is the minimum municipal funding set at 39.29 which has been a claim made by Eudel, which has been answered by integrating it into this law. That, by the way, Mr. Gordillo, your allegations said so. If this municipal minimum is higher in homogeneous terms than the previous 54.7. And not only that it is superior, for which I invite you to review the available calculations, because our colleagues at General Boards have made a request for information, and the juntas and, therefore, with public information, you can verify all this information. I mean, it's not information I expose for being a government-supporting party, it's public information. So, if we dive a little bit we have information on General Boards. And not only that it is superior for the verification of that information that is available on the General Boards, but also that what was a recommendation becomes a legal obligation, with which the reading of the Basque Nationalist Party cannot be more positive. And that's why I would also like..., speaking of municipal issues, I would like to highlight the incorporation of the precepts deriving from the LILE with a special chapter dedicated to municipal financing. I, Mrs Pinedo, have made observations from the LILE report. I have provided data on the capacity or need for funding, on the deficit or surplus of the different institutions. No more, observations, I have not seen any, for its part, any findings. I have taken, I have taken the LILE report and I have given data. I have said observations, I have not concluded anything else, observations. You draw any conclusions you want, misrepresent my words. I'm not going into... If you want, look at my first speech and there you will have my words. Because it's easier, I see, than doing this kind of claim from this stand, but you have to be a little more serious. They also, yes, they also continue to defend, for what they maintain in their interventions, that it was necessary to change, that it was good to change the law, but, moreover, to change it substantially. That's what you've warned in some of your positions. But, on the other hand, I do not observe, I do not know, a solid basis for the law to be amended. They only indicate that there is a need to change, but in what, what is to be substantially changed in the law when a law is presented today that incorporates all the recommendations of the expert group, the LILE report, when the Basque Government and the deputies provide additional resources for social policies, when the adjustment fund is increased and when the demand of the municipalities is incorporated by shielding their minimum municipal funding by law. They've put on the table a series of concepts, a lot of aspects, of valuations, with great headlines, but I don't see that they have much support. But, well, it's your mark and, well, I'd say your mantra, too, wouldn't it? You stand against it, you understand what you want to understand. They say that the vertical has risen because it gives more to the government. They don't answer my explanations as to why the vertical climbs. And so, I'm not going to go into the explanations that you don't want to hear. I tried it on my first shift, but I see it didn't have any effects. So just give thanks to all the agents and charges you've come to this law today, and to the agreement you've done and the agreement you've made, to increase the minimum funding of municipal policies to the law, to increase the fund of disabilities, and to penetrate into the law the recommendations made by experts in LILILILILIL. In order to achieve everything with financial stability and accuracy, which will be the basis of the budget of 2022 to deal with the targets that come. Eta guzti honengatik EAJren bayezko bozka izango du, dudarik gabe, ekarpen lege-proiektu honek, because the value of the agreement lies in the strength demonstrated as a country by crystallizing this agreement that was always presumed complicated. This agreement will allow us to focus on recovery, as Councillor Azpiazu has said, because it is a key milestone in tackling the process of economic recovery and employment together and on a firm basis. It is an investment in stability to respond to the challenges of the global transformations that Euskadi faces as a country: ecological and energy, technology and digital, social and health. The agreement on the Law on Contributions marks a milestone and will allow all Basque institutions to start on 1 January 2022 with budgets based on certainty. It will focus on economic recovery and the generation of higher quality employment opportunities. This is the priority that we share with the Basque institutions, in a model of collaboration with the cooperative and business fabric. An agreement that has been reached in the course of numerous technical meetings and a final political impulse of the councillor and the entire Department of Finance together with the three outlaws and the representation of the Basque municipalities. Therefore, an agreement, without doubt, successful, with the will to agree, and always with a country vision: Euskadi. And that's what we have left. For our part, for the Basque Nationalist group, thank you for your effort, your work and your willingness to agree. Zoriontzeko akordioa. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. End of discussion, we'll vote for the bill. You can vote. [[Pause]] [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 40; opponents, 33; Abstations, 0; white; 0.1,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u29	It has therefore been approved that the law of methodology which will apply during 2022-26 periods of the Esunomical Fertilization and Aldundias to the funding of the budgets of the Esunomical Esistia. Second point on the theme list: "To discuss the procedures of the Presea and of one reading, Eucabertarians, Basque Sociists, and the parliamentary law made by the parlamentary teams of the Basque Council, to change the 1st and 20th of December Kooperatibs. Discipline and final resolution. According to the order of the table on September 14th, 2021, the assembly of Boxarets will be transferred by a single examination at the full meeting. If there's a side shift, please, who wants to be on the side shift? All three, all right. Basque Popular, Mr Barriio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u30	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselor, vice-lehendakaris, good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Well, this point I think is going to be brief compared to the previous one, and we have to do what we have to do is justify our signature with the groups, the Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group, because this proposed law amending the Law 11/2019 on Cooperatives of Euskadi. We have to say that some of us work with dedication, with contributions through amendments, so that the Law 11/2019 of Cooperatives of Euskadi was a reality in the last legislature, and that that rule would mean an improvement, a modernization of this entrepreneurial system of social economy that has developed in such a powerful and exemplary way on our land. As of June 30, 2021, there are 3,416 cooperatives in the Basque Country, 528 in Alava, 1,648 in Bizkaia and 1,240 in Gipuzkoa, of all sizes and focused on many sectors, in almost all sectors at the moment, technological, productive in our country. Yesterday we checked in San Sebastián, at the event held on the occasion of the presentation of the Denon Artean prize, promoted by the Supreme Council of Cooperatives of Euskadi, and granted to the International Cooperative Alliance, ACI, what is the muscle of our cooperative system, not only in our community, but also in the Spanish sphere, in the international sphere. And that is why we must work in this Parliament, because the rules governing this sector, that regulation, those laws facilitate the fact that they can continue to develop, that they can continue to grow, that they can continue to find new cooperative formulas, that all this also generates more employment and more economic wealth, as has been shown so far. The law of 82 of this Parliament, the law of 93 and its reforms, and the law of 2019 that we passed at the end of the last legislature, as it has touched, soon, but it has also touched on reforming that law on technical issues perfectly agreed with the sector. In the proposal for a law, in the explanatory statement, the signatory groups set out the characteristics of the reform, which relate to the scope of insurance cooperatives. In this regard, the agreement of the Bilateral Commission for Administrative Cooperation between the Administration of the State and Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community and the need to bring articles 124.1 and 125.3 of our law into line with the general rules on insurance entities. There has also been a need to change the time frame given to cooperatives in order to adapt their statutes and to bring them into line with the new law, following the consequences at all levels, at all social, administrative and pandemic levels, and therefore the need to increase this statutory adjustment period until 31 December 2023. And also important is the possibility, which we all know, of adapting to the use of the electronic means and telematic methods of the different organs in cooperatives. Its organs are assemblies, councils, commissions, organs of all kinds, and always adapt this telematic use, its electronic use, provided that its statutes provide for it. Of course, personality is the most important thing, and more so in this area of interpersonal relationship which are cooperatives, and of union in common, but, in any case, all this has to be, issues of these characteristics have to be adapted. Well, all of us, such as this, telematics and electronics, have also been able to get to know this Parliament and to which we have had to adapt with the reform of the regulation, and much more so in this very dynamic area of cooperative enterprises. There has also been a need to correct some material error, the translation into the Basque language or in the wrong reference identification in Article 153.3. Well, issues that are also part of this bill. That is the purpose of the proposal and of the proposed amendments in accordance with the general rules, according to the sector, moreover, and adapted to the new circumstances, to the new needs. This Parliament has been characterised in terms of the social economy and the regulation of cooperative rules by a broad agreement to regulate and analyse the social economy and its most widespread expression in the Basque Country, which is the cooperative. We will also have an opportunity after the adoption of this law to talk about cooperatives and social economy with the presentation of the strategic plan entrusted to the Government on social economy. And I'm done. Today co-operativeism is a recognized reality in Europe... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... strategic plan for the Government on social economy. And I'm done. Co-operativeism is a recognised reality in Europe today. Yesterday we also saw it as a key economic factor, with an economic and social factor essential for its own characteristics, for its principles, and according to the forecasts made yesterday, also, at the end of the decade, at the end of the decade, 20% of employment will be social economy. We must therefore strengthen co-operativeism. And we can do so by adapting the legislation and encouraging the Government's action in its promotion and support. The social economy has endured the shock of the crisis we are experiencing better than other economic formulas. But it is clear that it has also been affected. For this reason, there has been a need for changes, in this case in its cooperative expression. And that is what the signatory groups have done with the signing of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u32	Thank you, Madam President. And yes, I think we're going to be brief. Not anymore compared to the previous point, because, really, compared to the previous point any point can be much shorter. Let's be brief because there is an agreement – I think – very broad. And because today we are going to give a useful example to Basque citizenship with what we are going to do in this Parliament, having been complicit among all of us in developing a strategy to address a request from a sector that is strategic for Euskadi, such as the cooperative sector. And on the basis of establishing these complicitys, for being able to give a quick response to those problems that have raised us. Yesterday we were in a delegation of parliamentarians from this House, in the prize of Basque co-operativeism, which is called Denon Artean. And I believe that this is a rather important and very powerful concept, because moreover, today, together, among all of us, we will establish with dialogue, with agreement, a response to those problems that have raised us. As you know, the Cooperatives Act was passed in this House in 2019. And since that year many things have happened: some have to do with the pandemic and others have not. The first of these is that, as you know, after its publication in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, the Government of Spain warned the Basque Government that we had included a figure which had been removed from the European Union system for some time, and also from the national system. At that time a process of collaboration was established between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to reach an agreement and, finally, that agreement was contemplated, also expelling the figure of insurance cooperatives operating on a variable premium basis, which had been expelled from the European Union, also expelling it from our legal system, making only those operating on a fixed premium those also operating in Euskadi. And that's what we bring today, in this bill. And then, things that have to do, like I said, with the pandemic. The first is that in 2019 cooperatives were given a specific date to make the statutory changes necessary to comply with this new law. Of course, what happened happened. And, of course, cooperatives have had many problems in meeting this requirement. Then, it seems logical to us, it seems normal to extend this date of fulfillment in a calendar year, until December 31, 2023. And that is also reflected in this bill. But in addition, yesterday we heard, in that act of Basque co-operativeism, that society is constantly changing and evolving; something that is evident. And that the field of innovation, the field of technology, had to have its point of transfer, not only to the productive field, from the field of cooperatives, but also to the field of internal organisation. And today we're going to include that possibility with this bill, aren't we?: the possibility for co-operatives to decide to collect within the statutes of their cooperatives that telematic meetings of their different organs can be held, establishing different conditions, logically, depending on the organ. And by establishing a guarantee, a right, which we think is very important, and it is that if there is a cooperative who wants to remain face to face in the assembly, he can do so, thus guaranteeing protection to those who can always be the weakest. He said Denon Artean is a very powerful concept. And it is a concept that defines co-operativeism very well, but it also defines very well the process that we have used to get here today to this Parliament. First, cooperatives with the Basque Government, with the Department of Labour and Employment, analyzing what needs are, and what problems they have encountered after the pandemic, including in the enforcement of their own laws. Secondly, the Basque Government with the parliamentary groups, transferring these reflections that have been made with the world of cooperatives, and making us participants in the search for a solution. All of us, the parliamentary groups, in dialogue with each other, in dialogue with the cooperative sector, who assures us that, in fact, they agree to adopt these solutions. And furthermore, by agreeing that it must be the one-time reading procedure that we give to this bill, to ensure that we arrive in time. And I want to stop for a moment at this point, to thank you for the attitude we have had, which all the parliamentary groups have had. Because regardless of what is being voted on in this House today, it is true that if we are here today it is because unanimity, unanimity of all groups, from the Vox Group, through the People's Group, through the Podemos Group, through the Socialist Group, the EH Bildu Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, we have decided that it can be dealt with through the single reading procedure. And I think this is remarkable. We, as a Socialist Group, will always be in the defence of a sector that is strategic for Euskadi. We are on it, we are grateful that there has been a great deal of consensus to develop it, and I think it is an example... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... the defence of a sector that is strategic for Euskadi. We are on it, we are grateful that there has been a great deal of consensus to develop it, and I think it is an example to continue along this path. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u33	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarka is your word. No one's getting involved in the other round, right? , on the other side.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u34	Thank you, Chief, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. If we look at the government program of this legislation, we'll see that the first axis is work and economic recovery. Gobernu honek hellburu horren aldeko apustua egiten du, zalantzarik gabe. It bets that it materializes in clear strategies that aim to overcome the negative effects of the pandemic, strategies based on advanced industry, investment, innovation and internationalization. It is true that the pandemic has had a clear negative impact on the economy and employment in Euskadi, and it is necessary that we recover the levels before this phenomenon, but adapt ourselves to the new challenges and the new realities we face. One of these key strategies for reactivating, recovering and improving the quality of employment is the Government's commitment to strengthening the role of the social economy. This Government has already committed or launched specific initiatives in this regard, supporting the development of social economy enterprises, facilitating actions aimed at strengthening their dimension, incorporating new partners and fostering inter-cooperation and partnership among them, and also supporting the improvement of business management and planning, training and the promotion of good governance and corporate social responsibility. By encouraging both technological and non-technological innovation projects. And in order to do all this, it is necessary to develop the Basque Cooperatives Act, as was already foreseen among the commitments of this Government. A rule that despite being of December 20, 2019 needs a concrete fit, because it is very important to have the right legislation to get the best results, and to urgent needs, quick answers. What we bring to the plenary's attention today is precisely this: to know how to listen, to detect shortcomings in the rules in force and to act as quickly as possible to respond to the demands of society, in this case, to the demands and concerns expressed by the world of cooperativeism. This is also one of our functions as parliamentary groups, to be in touch with the reality of the moment and to try to legislate according to it. While it is true that the Cooperatives Act is a recent law, it is no less true that the health crisis we have experienced with the pandemic has also revealed in this area some legal limitation that needs to be corrected. In this case, we are talking about two aspects not fully covered by the current legislation: the use of telematic means, the specific use of telematic means in meetings of collegiate bodies and the moratorium to adapt the statutes of cooperatives to the same law. Two issues have arisen, two needs that require our quick response. Two demands that the sector itself has moved us to, and to which, as has been mentioned, we have sought the formula and the regulatory procedure in this House that allows them to be resolved as soon as possible. We are faced with two amendments that will facilitate cooperatives, on the one hand, to adapt their statutes within a reasonable period of time, taking into account the paralysis to which the covid has subjected us all and on the other hand, and on the other hand, they will enable them or they will enable them to use new technologies in the meetings of these bodies in a more effective and efficient way. Nothing extraordinary. But it required a quick performance like the one we're offering. Cooperatives have shown us in these long, hard months that they have many strengths in their model. Its principles based on solidarity, participatory management or cooperation have enabled a positive reaction by encouraging in many cases new initiatives that are in line with the reality of what we were experiencing. They have resisted, they have shown us the strength they have and already face a new phase with the challenge of recovering as soon as possible and in the best possible way. Let us also accompany them from here and give a positive response to their approaches. The Kooptareib has shown their strength. He hasn't had any trouble, but they're standing and trying to get on with the job. Today we will help them with this reform, and we will help them with the everyday working. Esto es lo que con reform hacemos. I am only encouraged to add your votes to this proposal, which is ultimately the sector's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u35	After deliberation, the proposal of law is made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes given, 69; the supporters 50; the opponents are 0,0; abstain, 19; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u36	So it's been accepted to change the 11/19 bill of December Kooperatibes. Going to the vote, Miss Martínnez, your word is yours. [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'll be very brief. An initiative has been discussed to address the competition discrepancies between the Government of Spain and the Basque Government over the Basque Cooperatives Act. The proposed law is intended to regulate certain organizational aspects of operation, correcting errors and contextualizing the law adopted in 2019. Issues that we consider should be adequately addressed and regulated. The situation generated by the coronavirus pandemic has affected the normal functioning of cooperatives; and, in particular, the possibility that their cooperative bodies – general assembly and governing council – could reach agreements in a non-personal way. Firstly, because they are outside their founding statutes; secondly, because they do not have sufficient electronic means. The experience gained over these months has taught us that videoconferencing or telematic meetings have come to stay and more and more studies are supporting the advantages of this new way of interacting. In essence, the procedure remains the same and the only thing that changes right now is the mechanism. It is therefore essential to adapt the statutes of cooperatives to this new mechanism. And the moratorium that this proposal of law seeks until the date of the closure of the ordinary exercise of societies, on 31 December 2023, we believe is reasonable. As you can see, issues that we have understood to be reasonable from Vox and that we express, moreover, openly and without complexes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together Podemos-Toy won't speak. The representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again. Today, we have just laid down the arrangement of the law of Kooperati, which has recently been granted to us in this legislation. The Koopatareibs had long since proclaimed the necessity of the law, and the new law was necessary, as we believe, to adapt the legislation to the present wants, since the present state has nothing to do with the 1993. In the new law, for instance, the Basque Country in the United States, the administration of the Companies ought to be a match for women and men. The new law has improved the legal protection of the Coperatives, and that is why we voted for him, although we were critical on certain points. For instance, because the number of hired temporary workers was extended, opposed to the cosmic mind, and the co-operatives of the profession refused to be represented. We left because we agree with the character of the cooperatives, because we appreciate the importance and influence of the co-operatae in our country. Because, after all, co-operatives are an excellent instrument for answering the world in a different way. And we certainly keep that commitment today. As then, the co-operatives themselves proposed to us the necessity and need of certain changes which will come to pass to-day. And we believe that they are reasonable, and that they are necessary to adapt the co-operatives to the wants of this long pandemia by day and above all. We have, therefore, since the first moment proposed to us by change, attempted to give way to the trial, to find consent, and to accelerate the changes of these agreements as far as possible. It must also be mentioned that we have seen a real attempt to connect those agreements to them on the side of the Department of Work and Empulgu, from the first moment. We think they've made an honest attempt on the head-masters and heads of the Social Economics, and that the result will be as big as it is today, because I dare say we've answered the team with the same honesty and honesty. We think it's highly remarkable, especially now that we've discussed a few minutes ago about the Confederation Law, and that it's been very different from the fact that you've been acting in this case, and the result is as big as that. But, well, that's where I'm going to leave the matter. Today, the changes made by the alteration of the laws on our table were different points for the EH gathering, and therefore our vote has been abscesssion. For the first time, as I have said, we agree with the demands made from the world of the Kooperatians, that is to say, the time for the State to adjust to the new law, or to penetrate into the subject of the telegraphic assemblies. These are another influence on the pandemia, and this pandemia has shown us that later we have to have other tools, including telematic instruments. These demands made by the world of Kooperatives are useful, so they have the full support of the Basque Country. But, on the other hand, this change of laws leads to an agreement made in the Coincidence Committee. We say a deal because that's the way it is expressed, but we know that by the Committee of the Both, the State participates here, in our law enforcement, in the legal laws that are accepted. And we don't agree with that at the Basque Country. We cannot admit that the law granted in this legislature is threatened by the State's threatening to go to the Constitution. We clearly see what the nature of this legislature is, and it is impossible for Madrid to attempt to change what has been admitted to all of us here. And this does not happen only with this law, but is always a phantom present. The state informs us of the legislative activity of this legislature, and we do not agree with it. What is in the foundation is an important matter for us: the defence of our self-interest, the defence of the jurisdiction of this legislature. The state must respect what has been decided here... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...is a very important matter for us to defend our self-interest, to defend the jurisdiction of this legislature. The state will have to respect what has been decided here, but it has a different practice, and we don't agree with it. We can't allow him to be involved in this case, not because he's part of that silent case. And we are convinced that we will not submit to the oppressions of our jurisdiction. In this case there seems to be a technicality behind, or a mistake, but if that is so, we really believe that the proposition should be brought to pass by the hands of the state, and not wait for the law to be brought to this. Therefore, we have abstained from gathering EH for the use of the co-operatives, but EH Collect will not defend the Government of Madrid to enter into the laws of this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Third point in theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law made by the Parliamentary Group, in order to guarantee the rights of labour for those who are in the division of the digital platforms. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Saez de Egeilaz, the representative of the EHG, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u41	Good day, Congressman. Today is October 7th, a good day of work. We should be discussing affairs with dignity and quality at this day, and it is not a coincidence that we are here to discuss. It's not a coincidence to talk about people who are more familiar in the way of a bullfighter today. In this day, when speaking of decency and dignity, of employment of quality, some must still remind them that we are far from it. Horregatik, bi argazki ekarri ditut gaur Legebiltzar honorara, éta bi argazki hauek bi egoera erakusten diskigute, bi irudi graphiko, hain zuzen ére. Bi modu azierazteko prekarietateak hil egiten duela, éta azierazteko era prekarieteta gure kaleetan bizikleta heurean ibiltzen from her. There are two images, and it is often said that two images are worth more than a thousand words, and they come to say the same basically: that this, all this is the result of extreme precariousness, of precariousness at work, and that riders have labor rights and need decent labour rights, that employment always and without a doubt has to be worthy. They are reflections of the extreme preparation, but there are also examples of a model struggle among the workers, and therefore we have wished to bring them here on the day of a considerable work to be present. As I have said, this day, which will be as much talked of as it pleases, will be treated with decency and dignity, but the facts show us the contrary. In the time of savage capitalism, apology may be made for the work of quality, and it is done, but we must begin to speak of the commitment to public policy and the lives of workers and workers at the center. And if we don't make this commitment, it's impossible to make any progress. Hence it appears to us that this government, and the institutions of ours, ought to establish and execute the rights of the separate members of the digital platforms, even to-day. The object of the enterprise of today is clear, that it is to ensure the rights of work that this government has made a firm compromise, by applying all the tools and measures necessary to it. And every day we see the riders in the street, at any hour, in any corner. The moment and the situation don't matter. We usually see them on the bike, but we can see them today on a skate. In the Pandemae, too, there have been labour and labour, and there have been about 50 decrees in the whole Spanish state to change the law, which have been decided on the direct relation of work. On September 23nd, 2020, the Supreme Court of Spain established a law of law. And on the basis of this, it is undisputed that all these self-organists who have been working like false autonomists and companies like Glovo must consider them as hired workers. And this at least happens to be exaggerated at present. Hence we say that the law has changed and has been obtained in some great measure, in the name of the juridic security, not to perpetuate the form of false autonomists, and to work on other men's workmen. But this law, which has begun to apply, is not sufficient to ensure the rights of workers, and we know that it is so. It takes more steps to make the rights of the laborers protect. And you have to say that, too. We've seen that the separation has been one and only one of many companies. By changing the law, they can't follow the example they used before with the exploitator? It is easy for them to avoid the law, because they have dedicated themselves to doing anything in the past few months and weeks to avoid hiring these equivocations, for example, such companies as Glovo. But, further, we must consider that this is a subject of much-edge, or that it is a fact which we have brought to the present day; and I think it is the systematic development of the rights of workers working on digital platforms as a divisor, so precisely that it is the reflection of the economic model which the enpres which is behind these digital platforms. Hitz egiten da, éta izugarri henera, entreprise hauen sorreran atzean daden entrepriserais, ekintzaile deitzen zaie. Eta iruditzen finde gehiegi hitz egiten da ekintzailetzaz azkenaldian, éta asi beharko gauza era guzti hauek, ekintzailetzak atzean dituen gauzatxo guzti horais hyzketan. And it's that here we have a problem, and it's that you can't undertake to put in place bad conditions. I really think we should focus on this and start talking about it. It cannot be undertaken in any way. If your idea is based on the exploitation of the workers of the company you want to set up, that idea is not worth it. We can't keep talking about entrepreneurs that have been funded... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... In the exploitation of the workers of the company you want to set up, that idea is not worth it. We cannot continue to talk about entrepreneurs who have been financed and reinvented the market, if what they propose is to reproduce wild capitalism and exploitation for personal benefit, but with words in English like startup or a few more. And the problem we know what it is: that somehow that exploitation is legitimized, rooted, and many times assumed in all our spaces. And I dare say that in the ardent and firm defence of their temporal rights and their lives we have been informed of the new modes of exploitation. In what is rapidly altered, at the moment at which every day something new is invented and established, the dispersors have shown us an immense dignity in all their struggles. And the sequence of it, for example, is that the steps on the table, the progresses, the unions, and such associations as Riders x Derchos, have shown once more that the organization of workers is indispensable and possible, but that this struggle has not ended. And of course, when we're talking about the separation, we need to refer to a full-consumption model. And this, even if it's not the exact subject today, it's a matter of direct connection. They told us we had a chance to eat whatever we want, and they tried to make us believe. It seems that no one wants to talk about the working conditions of the workingman who waits at the door to satisfy your caprice with that characteristic inkbag. And now, too, there's a new market that's creating separate foods. These reply to an idea beyond the supermarket, and they get that food from some particular warehouses or locals so that they can go to the houses. And recently, I don't know where I read in an article, but the party accused of having no physical space to go to the bathroom during all these hours, that they hadn't been waiting for a bank to rest there, waiting for that food to be able to stay while those packages were waiting, or that they didn't have room to load a wall, so they could do their basic instrument when they were in motion. And there is no one in this world who will deny that this is exploitation. And he who denies or is either a exploiter or an accomplice. Being a choice doesn't mean you have a right. And this reality of the moment doesn't mean there's no alternative. Therefore I would like to set up the work of Bocho Riders at Bilba, or the work which the Cooperative also calls Gaste, because they penetrate into the construction of the alternatics, and because the labourer is established by means of the means of being worthy of merit, and by forcing and forcing the trade of the workers. And, as I have said before, this battle is not over, because this law is not sufficient. For it has been asserted that the laws will not be executed by the medical experts in the sector, and this shows us that other tools and measures must necessarily be applied. The Prefect has a thousand borders, a thousand faces and a thousand experiences, as we have said a thousand times in this field. And many riffers, for instance, are young, and this is also a very young sector. And that's not a coincidence. We can't continue to promote the society of prepéritifs and life. This government is also obliged to stop, to stop, to stop, and to take upon itself a firm engagement for worthy employment, to stop the rifts which lie in all these thousand corners, and once for all to fill with dignity. Beyond the words, if it does not work for the working people, the action of the Government will not be quite a part of it. And that's why we brought this proposal today. It must be said that a medium has been obtained between the sects supported by the Government and the United States-Podemos. But we're out of medium, and simply because we don't see some things that are defined at the third point. Still, I want to thank you, or, well, at least we had a chance to negotiate this medium. We have also seen that we make one of the other points, and that in this matter there is an opportunity of consent, or at least of common ideas, which we share. And therefore I think it is a good deal of middle-way, though we, for example, have not received so many points as we had at first made in our original proposition. I want to explain why we are not going to support this transaction. We cannot support it because it refers to the Social Dialogue Bureau, and it is also meant that the law is created through the Social Dialogue Bureau. And this law cannot be understood without discussions and previous meetings with platforms or associations of riders and other trade unions, for example. Similarly, not all trade unions are represented on this table, nor are the platforms of riders, which are precisely the ones who know the most about the subject, those who suffer the most about the subject and those who have the most to contribute. That is why, as I said yesterday, we can also agree on the substance of the matter, because we are, but the law obeys both the Social Dialogue Bureau and many other issues. For us, the important thing is to establish the employment relationship between the suppliers and the contracting companies, which is indeed reflected in the law, and this is positive, but, of course, this is not enough. And this is said by the associations and the affected themselves, the riders, more than once, as we have been able to comment on. If we refer to the Social Dialogue Bureau, other requests and demands made by the workers themselves are fully relegated to this agreement. And the Social Dialogue Bureau seems to us not to be the panacea. The vast majority of requests and interests of riders are not represented. Putting as a red line and drawing a moderately dignified and open agreement for wanting to make reference to this, for us, is not an option. You've had us in vilo until the last moment. I really thought I was going to get my first deal with the government; it couldn't be. Still, I think, well, we're going to back up this transaction on the other points. That's why we want to vote on points because we agree with the other points. And above all, it's because it's worth the first... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... That's why we want to vote on points because we agree with the other points. And, above all, because it is well agreed from the legislation before, that which makes progress, that which does not remain alone around the Spanish laws, and from this legislature, but strictly from the Euskion, that there is something to be done and said by the agreement of the previous legislation. However, it seems to me that today we have brought in a clear debate on the street, and that we have the opportunity to make a real advance on this subject, at least because we have extensive agreements on our table. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Chaus Group, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will focus my intervention on digital platforms on three well-defined points. Point one. Digital platforms from our point of view are neither good nor bad, especially generic ones, but simply new business models that arise from the natural evolution of the economy and technology, and the problems we have with them are a consequence that legislation has not been able to regulate this reality in time. It is that the economy, as everyone knows, is on the other hand continuous, the same as technology and the same as social habits. New business models are constantly emerging while others disappear, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by technology and changes in consumer behaviour. This is normal, it is a symptom of a healthy and dynamic economy and opens up new opportunities for employment and wealth generation. Of course, new businesses take advantage of technological advances to respond to new needs, new consumption habits and, therefore, we should be aware that the whole process begins with consumer behaviour. We all want at a certain time to order food at home and we want it to come to us soon and not be too expensive. We all like that Amazon does not cover us the transport of the articles, we all search in Google the articles of the best price. At that point, when we do, we're not thinking about how much the Telepizza rider or Amazon messenger is going to charge. And this is the origin of the matter. The collaborative economy is a new business model based on new technologies, through which a large number of individuals can interact at the same time, in order to meet more or less common needs. And within this sector we find a fairly large variety of business realities, so home delivery is not the only one. For example, free software is a model of collaborative economy, as is Wikipedia, Airbnb, Crowdfunding or second-hand article platforms. I dare to ensure that in the future we will witness the emergence of many more technology-based businesses in different sectors. And the birth of that kind of business, I repeat, is not bad news in itself, but, as I said, a consequence of the dynamism of the economy, the evolution of technology and the changing habits of society. The initiative that we are studying today begins by talking in a simplified way about the Uberization of the economy. Well, then, let's talk a little bit about Uber, for example, because it can be a very illustrative example. Uber realized that 95% of the journeys by car is done only by the driver when the vehicles have capacity for five people. What is wrong with this initiative, which offers a possibility of cheap transport and reduces carbon emissions to the atmosphere? Nothing, it's true that it collides with the traditional taxi sector. The problem arises, then, when legislators, among us, are not able to respond in time and form to the demands of that change, properly regulating the new realities that arise and have to develop based on legislation that was not designed for this type of business model, because it did not exist. The legislators have come late to the new reality of the collaborative economy and our delay has had consequences, led to inequalities, problems and violation of rights. It's very clear if we look at the calendar. The first collaborative economy initiatives emerged in 2010 and the first regulation amending the Workers' Statute came in 2021. 11 years of delay, 11 years of problems and difficulties. It is therefore more our responsibility to have left an unregulated sector unattended for so long, which has generated repetition, inequality and violation of rights. Vulneration of rights for workers and who in most cases have worked under the self-employed regime, but with conditions similar to that of employed persons. And violation of the rights of consumers who have had no way to claim, in the face of breaches of contracted services in some cases. We cannot, therefore, blame the economic system or society for what is absolute legislative responsibility, we are late and that has consequences. And if there are contradictory sentences, which have existed, 70 contradictory judges, it is because we have forced the judges to make sentences without sufficient legislative backing. And this has also happened to us during the pandemic, because it actually always has the same effect. Thus, we find that companies in the collaborative economy present a set of benefits and a similar to the set of disadvantages, we could almost say like all, benefits such as that they cover demands from users who were previously not covered; that they are allowed access to services that were previously needed only a few; that they increase consumer demand; that they generate employment; that they generate economic wealth; that the allocation of resources is optimized and, in some cases, monopolistic markets are opened up to new ideas and new businesses. But of course they have disadvantages, things are never white or black, such as unfair competition with traditional sectors; that consumer rights are unprotected by lack of regulation; that for the same reason it can occur and, in fact, job insecurity occurs and that there may also be a risk of tax evasion by some companies. Well, advantages and drawbacks. Therefore, trying to demonize these types of companies is an absurd attempt to put doors to the countryside and is nothing more than an exercise in conservatism. Gentlemen of Bildu, on some issues like this you are more conservative than Vox. It's a stiffness exercise, a nostalgia exercise, and a myopia exercise. And in the initiative we read things like "the constant attitude of this kind of..."... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] It's a stiffness exercise, a nostalgia exercise, and a myopia exercise. And in the initiative we read things like "the constant attitude of these types of companies to avoid the rules". That's not true. They are new businesses that arise in an old legislative environment, simply. And the responsibility, I repeat, lies with the legislators for not having regulated this before. Point two. This is an issue already resolved through the adoption at the Congress of the Deputies of Decree 9/2021, adopted on 11 May, in which we have already made it clear that we consider that the amendment of the Workers' Statute was necessary to regulate a type of work that the Statute did not collect until then; to be a new form of work. However, as you know, we stand against the handling of this issue in the form of a decree-law, because that formula eliminated the parliamentary debate and the contributions of the groups on such an important and necessary issue. And we voted in favour of processing as a bill, introducing three very specific amendments. By the way, Bildu, the author of this initiative, did not submit any amendments to the bill at the Congress of Deputies in Madrid, so it is not well understood why he comes to the Basque Parliament to criticize something that they themselves did not amend where he was presenting themselves. In any case, as a result of this regulation, some companies have ceased their activity in Spain because they considered that with this regulation their business model was unworkable, and with this they have lost thousands of jobs, thousands of contracts for suppliers and thousands of euros in taxes. I have a feeling we haven't done quite well. And last, and point three. If a parliamentary group or a person considers and has evidence and evidence that a company is committing an offence, one has been mentioned here today, or is not complying with the law, then obviously what he has to do is go to the courts and report it, because that is the way. Hiding behind a GNP by making generic accusations and without evidence against a whole group of companies or against the Basque Government itself does not seem reasonable to us. Therefore, we do not consider that the companies of the collaborative economy are in themselves bad or guilty, but that the legislative regulation goes beyond, as is almost always the case, the new business models and that this is a matter already solved by Decree 9/2021 and that if it is considered that someone did not comply with the law, what must be done, I repeat, is to denounce it in court as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u44	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u45	Good morning, everybody. Nothing is enough, for our coalition, when we talk about the rights of the workers, nothing will, of course, be enough for those who have come to politics, among other things, to fight for the rights of the workers as long as we live in a system that is based on the exploitation of the human being by the human being, the capitalist system. We believe that we are discussing an initiative, as Mrs Saez de Egilaz said, on Decent Work Day concerning the rights of working people and, in this case, of the people we have been calling riders, we always think it was a good initiative and we agreed with what was proposed to us. And we made an amendment to the whole by adding a number of elements, including: pointing out to some of those companies that Mr Gil Vegas seems to you to demonize for no reason. We believe that a good agreement has been reached. We believe that an agreement has been reached that is a step forward in a long struggle to defend the rights of workers, a struggle that is unfortunately not resolved in a single day and that we actually share that it still has a long way to go. Because we think that the inconsistency with the sufficiency of the measures that can be taken in this sense, and I mean, in this particular case to the law called rider, will always be compatible in our group with the impervious defense of what we consider victories for the working class, whether small victories or great victories. And we think that that royal decree, that so-called Law rider, has been a great victory. A victory that, indeed, I share, does not only respond to the product of the Social Dialogue Bureau, we agree on that, but I believe that it is also unquestionable that the Social Dialogue Bureau has played a role, that there are a number of opposing forces: employers and trade unions, and that the result, which is what we care about is a positive result because it is a result of progress in defending the rights of the working class and, therefore, it is a conquest for the working class. And, therefore, we are always going to claim and defend those achievements that can be achieved for the working class, recognizing that all come ultimately, of course, from the struggle of the workers. In the case of riders, through new forms or new forms of organization that have been carried out, as was said among other things, because because of their own situation it was very complicated the traditional organization, the union organization, but also through the more classical trade union organizations. We believe that this law must be put into effect because we believe that it is a stand-in-the-wall bet against a model that has been implemented and that we have spoken of many times or several times in this Parliament too, which supposes, as was said on one occasion, the wet dream of 21st century capitalism, which is nothing but retrotracting and returning to conditions of exploitation of the 19th century, where labour relations do not exist and, therefore, the rights of workers do not exist. And some companies through these formulas were using these formulas precisely for that, to deprive workers of all kinds of rights. And therefore, it seems to us that this law is an important law, although more needs to be done. And I think in the... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] And therefore, it seems to us that this law is an important law, although more needs to be done. And I believe that the agreement that has been reached says that more needs to be done and also tells the Government that more needs to be done. And therefore, we think it is a good agreement, and as I said, an agreement for progress in defending the rights of women workers. For us the proof of cotton that the Rider Law is a victory and is an advance in this defense of the rights of the workers, is first of all to see the attitude that the companies that we knew were using these mechanisms for the savage exploitation of the workers, a furious reaction with internal and external pressures, first during the processing of the law and after the processing of the law. And as has indeed also been said now openly pose and design strategies to jump the law. If those companies that I like to call pirates again, which are also companies that are fundamentally part of capital funds, that the only thing they seek is to obtain economic revenue through not the exploitation of a business, but the exploitation of people, these companies must be pointed out because they have been pressing on democracy so that it is not legislated, precisely because it was being legislated in defense of workers' rights, and that could put the beginning to put an end to that wet dream of that capitalism returning to the 19th century. Mr Gil Vegas said "platforms are neither good nor bad", nobody has ever said that in this House, the initiative does not say that, I do not think that any of the amendments tabled, what is said is that these pirate companies have come to use technology and these platforms to seek the dispossession of the rights of the workers, and against that it was necessary to act and it has begun to act. You also said that it has been legislated late. Man, I tell you, I know that you are not of the People's Party, you are of Citizens, there are few left, it seems to be, also in this Parliament, that you have remained alone, but I believe that from the year 2010 to which you have referred as the beginning of the collaborative economy in our country until 2021, where the Government of Spain has legislated this specific issue on which we are discussing today, or if I am not mistaken, most of the time your fellow members of the People's Party have ruled. We believe that we do share that the fight does not end with that law and we therefore welcome the introduction of this initiative and believe that the agreement that has been reached is a step forward for several reasons. One has already said it, it points out to the companies, that it may seem like a symbolic thing, but we believe that they must be pointed out, because these companies are the real enemy, they are the ones that draw the economic revenue from the search for formulas from the exploitation of the workers. Secondly, because it tells the Basque Government that it must ensure against fraud, against fraud that we do know that several of these companies have already begun to take over and that the trade unions have already begun to complain that this figure of the false self-government is being pursued now under the new legislation in force, although previously there were too many judgments of the courts that raised it. Strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, because to do this it is necessary to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, and the carrying out of specific campaigns aimed at these and other sectors where also for a long time the collaborative economy existed or called collaborative, used fraud through the form of the false autonomous and through other formulas also of the false cooperatives, those who have just worked in the world of transport we know this very well. And lastly, because the initiative also urges the Basque Government to be vigilant about these strategies that are already under way. Because there is something else that I will never share with you about the approaches that the People's-Citizens Party does, Mr Damborenea did here too when we discussed this issue. I don't know if it was in the times of the Permanent Diputation. They say, "man, if you believe an offence or an offence is committed that is reported." Women workers are often very difficult to report these things, and in this particular sector much more. That is why Governments can be asked and must be required to act and to act in this case. Finally, I would like to point out that we for our part agree that we are voting on points, because we believe that this is indeed a good agreement. We think that red line you have marked (?) two groups around the social dialogue, that we had no problem both in collecting it, because well, we believe that it is also a fact that has been given, and in not collecting it if that enabled a broad agreement. We certainly do not put any inconvenience to either of the two approaches, and we also agree that we should vote on points so that several of the points that introduce important issues have greater support from this Parliament, because what was being discussed here today was that an initiative from Parliament should come out to advance the defence of workers' rights. And about the last debate also simply one thing, about the modes of consumption that Mr Gil Vegas was saying. When we buy, we don't think about what Telepizza's worker pays. You will not think of those who have worked as distributors of Telepizza, every time we call you I assure you that we think of what it charges, how it will come whether it rains or not and what its working conditions are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u47	Yes, thank you, President, good morning. Euskal Herria Bildu raises the debate on the guarantee of the labour rights of people working in distribution in the field of digital platforms, and is based on complaints about the application of the law in which this regulation benefits digital platforms, the confusion posed by society and the continuity of the violation of labour rights in a systematic manner. And the Basque Socialists don't share that diagnosis that you've made to us, ma'am... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... to society and the continuity of the violation of labour rights in a systematic manner. And the Basque Socialists do not share that diagnosis that you have made to us, Mrs Saez de Egilaz. We believe that the law adopted in May 2021 is the law that really guarantees labour rights for women workers in the distribution sector. For this reason, it is important that we have achieved a compromise with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida because it values this law, first, recognizing as a fundamental step the Royal Decree Law 9 of 11 May 2021, which amends the consolidated text of the Law on the Status of Workers. That is the important thing, that rights are included in the Workers' Statute, to guarantee the labour rights of those people who are engaged in sharing in the field of digital platforms. That is the value of the law, a nuanced, constant and sounding value. And it is a fundamental step because now the law, and by law, is determined the presumption of labor of the workers who provide these services in the distribution companies of the Delivery sector, and it is allowed by law the access of the representation of these workers to the rules of algorithms or artificial intelligence that can determine or affect the working conditions. No more or less. And we also reject the pressures that have been exerted by some of the companies in the sector, as has already been mentioned here, both during the process of the law and after its adoption. And we appreciate the compromise amendment, because before the adoption of this rule of this law, the Basque Socialists consider that there are two important milestones in this Parliament, agreements of very broad majority on the debate that Euskal Herria Bildu has brought us here today, and that is why we wanted to reflect this in the compromise amendment. On the one hand, the agreement of 12 December 2019 on measures to combat job insecurity and the negative impact that had been created in the areas of consumption and which was promoted by the economy used. And another important agreement that was forgotten to you, Euskal Herria Bildu was forgotten in his analysis and in his initiative, and it is the agreement of early May 2020 on the protection of the workers of the transport of parcelry and distribution at home that is made in the Permanent Chamber of this Parliament in the midst of the covid pandemic, in 2020. And it is argued in these points, there are five agreements, in three of them, it is said that "actions are necessary to be taken and developed by the Basque Government, the Ministry of Labour and the Congress of Deputies, to avoid the fraud of companies with the false autonomous, to avoid abuses and to guarantee benefits in case of disability and health insurance". In addition, the agreement called for "the legislative changes necessary to put an end to the fraud of the false self-employed". This agreement is very important because it precedes what is the Riders Act. Thirdly, in that compromise amendment, we are pleased that this law has been the result of the consensus reached at the Social Dialogue Bureau, and all three in these terms, because it is so, because it is the truth. This Riders Act has been the result of the consensus reached at the Social Dialogue Bureau, giving answers to the workers' just demands. Because the text of the Royal Decree Law, of real rank, is an agreement at the end has reached on March 10, 2021. This is the Royal Decree Law. It is based on this agreement of the Social Dialogue Bureau of 10 March 2021 between the Government of Spain, trade union organizations and business organizations. And it is an agreement that seeks to provide legal coverage and to protect workers who provide such services in forms of organization and business direction other than traditional ones. We also urge in this compromise amendment the Government to strengthen the work of the Labour Inspectorate, as reflected in the initiative presented by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita in December 2020, for that defence of decent work, and which includes the maintenance of specific inspection campaigns to combat false self-governing, not only in the area of riders, not only in the area of distribution, there are many sectors that are being the object and scope of the application of false self-governing. I am talking about the construction sector, I am talking about the forestry sector, that is, it is much broader, and we must fight against that if we really believe it. And then, finally, the compromise amendment is true that in the face of certain attitudes of some companies, what we urge is that the government be vigilant about business strategies for all those who want to bypass the Riders Act and make fraud, which in this sense can be committed by certain companies, which have already been talked about here. Look, in May 2020, the current vice-lehendakari, Idoia Mendia, called for a new Workers' Statute to incorporate the rights of those who make it possible to give us more services under new economic formulas, and of all those who carry out their work outside the workplace. And we socialists have never considered or will ever consider it acceptable that technological advances that allow new forms of purchasing products or services or the performance of work, are translated into inequality or deprivation of rights, or impose a new classification, that of consumers, companies and workers of first or second class, because it cannot be that a leap forward in technology is ultimately a leap back in labour rights. And therefore, of the first measures taken by the Government of Spain, Pedro Sánchez, regarding labour and social security measures, in February 2019, is the improvement of the social protection of self-employed workers in order to prevent possible fraud of undue transfers of self-employed workers outside the special scheme of self-employed workers, and the penalties for cases of false self-employed workers are also increased. In June 2020 the Basque Socialists also made a reflection through the Ramón Rubial Foundation and Professor Sala de la Rica, who already spoke of an idea concerning other ways to other forms of work that had become visible during the confinement, that of the distributors and distributors at home of any product that was purchased remotely. They were new realities that required the negotiation of a new Workers' Statute and that... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... of any product that is purchased remotely. They were new realities that required the negotiation of a new Workers' Statute and that raised the rights of riders, their unprotectedness and the fraud that accompanied the situation of many of them, and the judgments, which have already been commented upon, of the courts that recognized their right to belong to the distribution company. And here I stop, if the sentences that have been handed down by, even, the Supreme Court, have been favorable to the riders and their rights, it has been because they were accompanied by the hand of the State Labour Inspectorate. All those judgments that had been issued against those rights were because the riders were not accompanied by the Labour Inspectorate, and that has been a key, important and fundamental element for the Supreme Court to issue the judgment that generated doctrine on 25 September 2021. For the Basque Socialists, therefore, what matters to us is that the incorporation of rights into the Workers' Statute, which implies the adoption of this Royal Decree Law, and which has resulted, has been the subject of long months of negotiations between the Government, trade unions and employers, many, many months. This is not a 10-minute deal where you have to profile yourself for someone else to hang on to, no, no. That is why it is important to highlight the social dialogue that has taken place. And it is true that there have also been conflicting statements on the part of companies. The Association of Service Platforms expressed its rejection of this rule. However, there are also companies that have considered it necessary to guarantee the rights of distributors and to ensure that all operators in the sector operate under the same rules. There's Just Eat, Peek Away who, for example, has done so publicly. They said digital platforms we have a responsibility to promote the creation of legal, safe and quality jobs in our country, as it is a declaration to which we must join. Not everyone is bad, not everyone is good, what needs to be attacked is those who seek to overcome and confront the rights of working people. As far as Bildu is concerned, I regret that we have not been able to reach an agreement. Our disagreement has focused, it is true, on the Social Dialogue Bureau, on its refusal to introduce it into the text, as if the agreement of 10 March 2021 at that Social Dialogue Bureau had not existed. We still think that thanks to that agreement, we can have a law today. And look, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, for the Socialists, there are no more effective instruments to respect the rights of people than to enforce the law with the instruments that the Administration has in its hand, as the Labour Inspectorate does in this case, also taking into account that these false autonomous is a fact that far exceeds the scope of distribution companies through digital platforms. And just one comment on the amendment, sorry, yes, to the amendment put forward by the People's Party. We disagreed on the first point. We understand that the Basque Employment Strategy of 2030, which was discussed in committee, in its Resolution No 7 clearly sets out the position of Parliament and the Basque Government on the issue of the collaborative economy. And the second point we understood was much better reflected in our third point of the amendment, which is why we have not reached an agreement. But thank you, Mr Gil, for your offer to a transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, members of the legislature, good morning, well, good noon to the day. Well, tell them, I wouldn't be long ahead of me because the people who spoke to you have explained the subject to us today. Because this is a discussion about a state already known to us of contexts, isn't it? The question of the defence of the rights of working rights of persons in the distribution of digital platforms. Always have known our people, our cities, the dealers who have worked in various sectors. But I take it in my mind to-day, that the matter is beyond, and that it is more odorous. Sometimes, when they combine the eternal and the future, I would say that this is evolution, and that a good barrito can be produced, can it not? But in other cases, the future, or rather the future, I should say, other agents who could understand the future in a peculiar manner, and who carry their rights to mere numbers for a moment, close them for a long time. And I think that dot is the basis of today's theme. As I said, this debate is not new. In fact, as the previous colleagues have said, this Parliament has witnessed agreements on this subject, agreements adopted by a large majority, which we wanted to highlight in the compromise amendment that we have signed; agreements which are based on the recognition of the rights of workers called riders and which are dedicated to sharing in the field of digital platforms. A sector that, by the way, has helped us so much in times of confinement, giving the best of themselves and of themselves to supply us. But, since the last debate and agreement from this House to support the recognition of the rights of riders, one more step has been taken. We now have, as has already been mentioned, the so-called Rider Law born thanks to consensus, as has been mentioned in the famous Social Dialogue Bureau between employers and trade unions, responding to what we consider to be the just demands of workers in this sector. This regulation came into force on 13 August 2021, less than two months ago, and the companies had to work, in some way, on these workers who until now had been the figure of false self-employed and self-employed. Be what you call the Crider Law more than two months ago... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... until now they had the figure of false autonomous and autonomous. Be that what is called the Fertility Act was less than two months ago in force, and we can at least see from our group that this delivery company is forced to hire their employees in some way, regardless of the false autonomic autonomism of the euuries, or the figure of false autonomists of false autonomists. Therefore, if we focus on the initiative of the proposed team, first of all, if we agree on many points, but at the moment of things, we must say that we have two months' notice of a law which hasn't been in common, and whether we see or do not see the difference of agreements which we have hitherto seen or don't do, what was the right initiative of this goal? For we have a law, that we have hitherto had the various agreements of the Dogues; then I did not see that this was the moment of this enterprise; and if we agree, as they do, many points. That may be one of the goals of an copyright defense, and we agree in the manner of doctrines, we have insisted on it in several legal agreements, and in the middle term we have signed today. Among other things, we don't need to see any sense of using other measures or other tools to work on. As I say, this law was introduced into the 13th of August, two months have not passed, so we believe for the moment that it must be seen, or that we must see what consequences the applications of this law are to follow. And for the time being, we think there should be no extra tools until we see if this law really works. Then we think we have to wait for the moment until that takes effect. And I don't deny that we don't need any more, but, well, we think we should wait a little. Esan doten moduen, momentuz ez dugu beharrezkotzat ikusten, bai ordea Lan Ikuskaritza erne egotea – now erdibidekoan be ipini dugu – benetan law horrettan exacten dena betetzen de la ikusteko. Ze, esan duzun moduan, langileak prekarioak direlako, éta hori holan da, éta babystu egin behar dugulako. But we take that for granted, since the Labour Inspectorate's course of action must be that, right? Ensure that labour legislation is complied with and be vigilant about fraud that such enterprises may commit in this regard. With this, we see no sense in asking for complementary measures at this time, or other tools, to a law that has been in force for less than two months. With all this in mind, we're in our midst asking you to come in and ask you to sing, from the circle of our jurisdictions, to keep doing the anti-sensory campaigns against these false autonomists. Be it so, what's the problem with this worker? Well, among other things, Social Security is up to now, until the law is tested, not to find a place to belong to, or a place to which it belongs. What is the meaning of what has been said in this? Well, in this case, the Spanish Government. Then, if we agree, we cannot require this government, besides the established law, any other measure than that of the legislature, where its conjunction is not its own. And I think that in your discourse various things have been confused, or that is, at least, their perception of what I feel. For example, we have the congency of the Spanish Government; for it is his right to place this workman in the proper place of Social Security, and to guarantee that, besides this, the necessary assistance of the Spanish Office is fulfilled. That's part of it. But you've been talking all the time asking this government to make a commitment to you or to take precautions, and this government has done what is in its power for the moment. As for example, the sensitation campaigns, together with the Spanish inspection, the Euscadcan Workers, co-ordinated among the two, to ensure that this law is fulfilled. And this government, for the moment, has done it, at least so far. With this, I believe that our duty must be to point out, on the one hand, that the so-called Rider Law has been a fundamental step in the defence of the labour rights of people dedicated to the distribution in the field of digital platforms. On the other hand, as I have already said, the broad agreements reached in this respect have also been shown to be legally effective when there was no legal rule applicable to these workers, and continue to make progress in awareness-raising campaigns against these self-employed fakes, being also vigilant in the face of possible frauds, as I have said, which in this respect may be committed by certain companies. And so, as such, that is what we have reflected in our compromise amendment. To conclude, I think, that the obtaining of a compact upon this side once more, by the agreement of the several parties, strengthens the position of this legislature, and let us make it clear that we condemn all the rights of labour in the division of the digital platforms. It's a good thing that Mr. Hernández would make a deal out of his disposition. Of course, Mrs. Corcuera will be there. And, well, I don't have a problem voting on points. And, well, thank God we've come to agree on a few points in this respect, and thanks for our gratitude. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing to the turn of answers, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz, the representative of the group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u51	Thank you, Chief. Well, I won't stay too long. It is evident that various opinions may be around certain things, but, as I have said before, at the bottom, we may agree that most of the groups in this Chamber may be agreed. I haven't invented anything I've said before, that's what they said... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] Most of the teams we're in. I haven't invented anything I've said before, it's what the riders have said through their statements. They have clearly said that they have been disbanded after this law has been applied; that they have been given to choose some companies, I don't know exactly which ones, but whether they want to remain self-employed, false self-employed, or whether they want a contract of employment. Therefore, that is not law enforcement, they were bypassing the law, and that is a reality that has been said many times and that has been denounced by various platforms and various affected. Well, we'd like to place the agreements on one side in the previous legislation, which we wanted to make, and which is here today, or we'd like to make up our minds to the value. We have brought this sense, because it seems to us, on the day of so great a work, that we are in the presence of one of the most presecrated sectors when we speak of it in the ringers, and we want to put it in value, but we mean that it is not enough either. With regard to the social dialogue and the Social Dialogue Bureau, I believe that at the moment Mrs Corcuera has been confused, or at least I have been confused about the social dialogue, the Social Dialogue Bureau. We have been saying and we have said, and you have also repeated it, that we are not facing a law that has been resolved or decided only at the Social Dialogue Bureau, since there are meetings that precede it, there are talks, there is a very powerful rider struggle that has taken place throughout the Spanish State, and that here also the riders have gone out on the street and have emphasized that their labour rights have to be dignified and taken into account. Therefore, it gives me the feeling that, as reflected in the transactional, it is said "the so-called law of riders was born out of the consensus achieved by the Social Dialogue Bureau". I do not think it can be said that it was born solely from the consensus of the Social Dialogue Bureau, and that is where we disagree, and that is why we cannot agree on the third point. Por lo demás, we agree on the other points, because it is the accounts we have expressed in the original proposition. It seems to me that at these moments we have brought this initiative about, on the one hand, because it is indispensable to talk about these doctrines, even in this legislature, which has been applied to and applied to the Spanish State, but which is precisely the case with the American law, and which, strictly speaking, has other options to produce other powers in other areas, and we wanted the subject to be present. And even in this sense, we wanted to bring this opportunity for a vast deal of agreement about this subject, because it might be on the table, and we wanted to bring it here this day. That there are possibilities, that there have been possibilities, that we do so in many things, but that we must go on with these divisors, because the fundamental rights of these people, who are being distributed on digital platforms, are not always guaranteed. And it is necessary to be attentive, and to make a show in all the fields. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. The representative of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u53	From the seat, if I may, Madam President. Nothing, just a minute to insist that it is not good that we generalize and demonize all companies, because it is simply profoundly unfair. Mr Hernández says that nowhere does he say that all companies are good or bad, but then he calls them, so generically pirates, they are the enemy. Anyway, I think it's much better that we focus and be fair to those who comply with the law and those who do not comply with the law. And finally, to clarify that when I meant that when we called a Telepizza distributor we didn't think about his salary, I was referring in general to the behavior of consumers, not mine. I'm sure in your case I'm sure you're famous for the generous tips you leave. But I was talking about everyone's behavior in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u54	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u55	Yes, I'm going to take part in the second round because it seems to me to be an important issue. I, of course, recognize the proposer as an important issue and, of course, our group welcomes the fact that, in days like today, initiatives on workers' rights are being brought in, so have we on other occasions. Mrs Sáez de Egilaz is right that nothing has been invented that companies are already looking for strategies to skip the rules. That's true, that's what we're seeing. And the unions are already in the process of fighting that, because, in fact, you too are right that the struggle does not end here, the struggle does not end either that real decree or end this initiative today. That is clear, because the class struggle and the struggle for workers' rights, of course, is very long. That is why I believe that this initiative contains things that are an important step forward and that it is good that Parliament should explain them, and not that there would have been an agreement and we would have stayed with the original initiative of the groups supporting the Government, which I believe is much more advanced with what has been agreed. Because we do tell the government that it has to do things, it is said that there are some things about control of the law, which goes from its own, that it is understood that the government has to do it, but we ask it in Parliament and ask it to do so. And it is asked for a reason, beyond the assessment that we can have each of the groups about how much is done or not done, about the dimension of the Labour Inspectorate, about the dimension of the different tools to fight this injustice, but above all because we corroborate that, right now, after the adoption of that law, there are companies that continue to design strategies to skip them and continue to exploit the workers against the law, in addition. That is why it seems to us to be a step forward and it seems to us that it is important to point this out, and to point them out. Mr. Gil Vegas said "it's bad to generalize." We in our initiative, so much so that we have not generalized that we... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ...point it out and point it out. Mr. Gil Vegas said, "It's bad to generalize." Man, we, in our initiative, have not generalized that we have put the names to the companies: Glovo, Deliveroo... We gave him the names. And I, on other occasions, have said so too. I have no problem, because we do it with evidence. Because we know what these companies are doing. The final initiative does not point them out, but it says "certain companies", because, indeed, there have been others who may not have such practices, but there have been some very concrete, important companies, with a lot of capital behind them, who are doing these pressure practices. And we've seen Glovo's performances, to the point of saying he's leaving the CEO because an agreement was being reached. We've seen Deliveroo say... Well, he's leaving. He's leaving, why? Because it is unwilling to respect the rights of workers. And some of them were shocked by some of my coalition comrades in Madrid, when they said, "Well, agur." Well, yes. Because such companies have to be told that they do, because we do not want companies that are based on the savage exploitation of people without any kind of labour law. And that's not generalizing against companies. And I think it's important to point that out, because you say it, you say we generalize that way, and that's not true. So, well, I'm glad. I hope, of course, that we will vote by points; I think we have all made it clear that we will vote by points. And I believe that a good message from Parliament will once again come out in defence of the rights of these particular workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u56	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u57	Anyway. Let's see, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz. It is true, I thank you for bringing the initiative here, and in addition to the World Day on Decent Work, but in this Parliament, and the Basque Government and the Government of Spain have not worked precisely on decent work today. We have full, parliamentary agreements, agreements of the Government of Spain, agreements of the Council of Ministers, agreements of the Congress of Deputies..., all those you want on the topic of decent work and how to enforce labor rights and quality in employment. The greatest example of this: it has been able to transform a problem, as was the question of the false autonomous in the workers of the distribution companies of digital platforms, it has been managed to transform into articles of the Act on the Status of Workers. Give legal protection, give legal protection. And if I insist on the Bureau of Social Dialogue, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, it is because from the Third Vice-President of the Government of Spain, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy, it is said: "The text...", the royal decree law, "...from the legal rank to the agreement reached on March 10 between the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy, trade union and business organizations, in a Bureau of Social Dialogue". And you come to me with pins on the subject of social dialogue. I have not caught you where you really have the problem, except that the riders, or some of the riders can understand that your pressure on the street has not been faithful reflection of what is today in the Workers' Statute; I don't know if I thought you understood that. But look, for the Basque Socialists, social dialogue is a key tool for securing the protection of labour rights and another set of conditions for working people in Spain, Europe and the world. In the world. Because we cannot forget that the ILO, the International Labour Organization, social dialogue says "includes all kinds of negotiation, consultation or simply exchange of information between persons representing Governments". He believes that "social dialogue is the best mechanism to promote better living and working conditions, as well as social justice, and plays a crucial role in promoting equal opportunities for men and women, and achieving quality work, in conditions of freedom, security and dignity". And I believe that that is why, in the Government Programme that we have in Euskadi, there is one element that is also important and key, in the Government Agreement and in the Government Programme. And it is the commitment to deepen social dialogue, with concrete initiatives. And that's not taking the issue of social dialogue with pins. We believe in social dialogue. If you don't, you have a problem. They have a problem. Because it's good enough to veto terminology when they're not interested because I don't know who says it's not recognized in an agreement. Yeah, but it's just that for a deal, for a deal to be made, you have to put hairs on the trigger. And neither the trade union representations, nor the employer's representation, nor even the Ministry itself, would agree on 100% of what was contained in that agreement. Of course, because they had more claims, all three parties. But that's what agreements consist of: to leave hair on the catera. And you know what I'm sorry about? To return to this rostrum again to face Bildu that, either it's his thing, or it's not. And so, don't... [[Berber]] No, Joe, no. What we're looking at, legislature after legislature. Either you play with Bildu everything you pose, or you don't play. And that can't be. It can't be, because we'll never make deals then. And I am sorry, because only the subject of "social dialogue table" has been the problem so as not to reach the same agreement that we have today with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, to whom, by the way, Mr Hernández, I have not done so before, I thank you for the disposition and the messages that we have interspersed. I therefore believe that there is a clear commitment from the Spanish Government, from the Basque Government, to maintaining quality in employment, for decent jobs, for decent jobs. And I also believe that you said, "There is a lot of advocacy, but then there are no commitments." Well, so there's no compromise, there's already plans, huh? There are plans already in Euskadi. The Berpiztu Plan, the... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... a lot of advocacy is done, but then there are no commitments." Well, in order not to see compromises, there are plans, huh? There are plans already in Euskadi. The Berpiztu Plan. Agreements with the Labour Inspectorate on the subject of false self-government. The Government of Spain ten issues, ten key issues have come forward: the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage, five social agreements in defense of employment, agreement for the economic revival of employment, regulation of distance work, the Law of (¿ riders?)), pension reform. Well, listen, so that we don't serve a table of social dialogue, damn it, we're already making agreements. I am truly sorry, and believe me, I am deeply sorry that we have not been able to agree on the term Social Dialogue Bureau. That was the only problem. I think it's very serious on a day like today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. You don't want the eulogy to talk about it? [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll vote the original text of the other proposal as the EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the contrary is 48; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u59	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters 6; the opponents 68; the abscesssions 1, white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u60	So it's not accepted. Finally, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzerzka, Eukal Sozialists and Eucabertists. We'll vote for it in points. If I don't get it wrong, one, two, four, five, and three out? Okay, so we vote one, two, yes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u61	Yes, we, also taking advantage of the point vote, want to differentiate. That is, we will vote in one way on 1 and 4, in another way on 2 and 5, and in another way on 3.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u62	The three, it's okay. [[Berber]] So (... ) It's all right. Wait, wait, wait, Carmelo. Yeah? Mr. Barrio?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u63	So let's see, 1 and 4 together, 2 and 5 together, and 3 on the other hand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u64	Martinez andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u65	It is easier to vote point by point and that way we save all of this. I mean, hey!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u66	Okay, Aber, we'll vote, we'll make three votes: 1, 4, 2, 5, and 3, okay? Tres grupos: 1, 4, 2, 5; y 3. All right, we'll vote for 1st and 4 points. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 7; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u67	So they've been accepted 1. And 4 points. Next, we'll vote for points number two and 5. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u68	So they've been accepted. The fifth and fifth points. And finally, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 2; the rivals are 26; the white ones are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u69	So the third point is also accepted. At this point, I interrupt the whole meeting until four-fifteen. The meeting was interrupted at two-thirty in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon, and at forty-six o'clock, the meeting began again. [[Begin of tape 43]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u70	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos-Nodemus as a parliamentary group of parliamentary factions, concerning the reforming of regulations for the ordinary use of resistance. Discipline and final resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u71	Thank you, ma'am. And good afternoon to you. Language policy and normalization. How they ought to adapt themselves to the wants of our age, if we start from a firm engagement with the eucalyptus. This is the question, the important question, and it would be to answer or answer this question, and it would be to agree with the other proposal, as we now bring it to us. It was a long time ago. For the regulation, which is connected with the requirements of language in general, is very old-fashioned. We have, on the one hand, the decree, from 1997, about the process of normalizing euphoris, for 25 years; and on the other hand, we have the Basque Act of the Public Function, 1999, 1989, which was approved 32 years ago. Many years have elapsed since these two principal rules were given, and many changes have since been given. In a way... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... what was accepted. Many years have elapsed since these two principal rules were given, and many changes have since been given. On the one hand society has prospered, and it may be said that we are involved in a tech revolution. Artificial intelligence and new technology change ways of learning languages, create new ways of communicating and have also brought us new tools to contact around us. And this, in languages, in talking, has consequences. And the balance between the cradle and the youth should be adapted to this new reality. And it's not easy. On the other hand, what have we got? Now, if the technology revolution were few, something else was happening to us on the side, and they took the form of judicial decisions. If we look at such judicial decisions as may be to be offended, we see by them that an unjust discourse has been revived, that is to say, the insistence of the reconciliation is regarded as a disseminative action. In this sentence, in this judicial court, various striking things were given. But if you shorten it, or if you play one thing, I'd insist on it. And it would be disturbing that at any moment this verdict did not take any notice of the regulations we have to normalize the use of the Euscan in our Public Administration. In the presence of all these things, we think: That it is necessary to conform to the regulations and laws which we have made. Otherwise, we risk losing the progress that has been made for the last 30 to 40 years. We believe that we are at a point of inflexia, and that the time has come to show us our commitment to eucatiousness. That's why we brought this discussion here. Because we need new tools for the promotion of the Basque and our language for the normalization of language, so that we can make use of the standard of normalization which will be able to resist all challenges as socially as we do, and in the future, to make sure that the cradle will continue to go on talking to more people and to more camps. And not a step back, anyway. And in this update of regulations, we wish to make certain decisions, which, as we conceive, must necessarily be taken notice of. In public employments, the legal guarantees of necessary indexes must be increased by the establishment of language. To direct the use of the cascade to the life of the speakers and of the speakers, we must review the regulation and adapt it to the reality of our present society. Today's society isn't like 40 years of society. He's old, he's older, he's much older, he's short of a generation, and in a few years we'll need foreign workers to keep our well-being alive. And today we propose a thorough and deliberate process of the reform of regulations. We'd like to have a field of discussion with the operating communities, especially euscalations and unions, as it happened in 1982 and 1989, for a wide agreement with the political teams of the legislature. And whilst, in this reform, they ought to be encouraged, as new things, we have placed them. On the one hand, we believe that asymmetrical language support must be centered in the middle, but not only verbal profiles, but even earrest profiles. If we look at the verbal profiles, it's true that we've been listening for a long time, but it's been years, so listen to me, but reform hasn't taken place. It has to be said, too, that something similar is happening in 2017 with the agreement that we have made in this legislature with the parties of funk; that is to say, A1 and A2 to include basic levels of administration in the system of languages. Four years have passed since then, and they have not yet been established; they ought to be put into action. About hearings, that is, people who, though they understand a language, cannot speak in that language, what do we think? That they're extremely important in the normalization process of a language. In fact, these people delete the liguistic stress, they have the ability to delete it. They all seem to be allowed to resist, because no one is shocked, and they all guarantee that they all understand each other. At the same time, it allows people, who have not the capacity to communicate safely to them, to insert them into the euphony areas, and to improve the level of their rest. The question is: Shouldn't we give these people a chance to get a job that doesn't have a live relationship with the people in the Administration? Good sense commands us otherwise. In the midst of the possession of language, reality is a variety of elements, and in the process of normalization of the sustain, we are all most important members of the whole community. And we can't leave anyone out of the way. We need a regulation that appreciates all reality. In other words, the Chief of Erkoek... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... We need a regulation that takes care of all of them. In other words, and the words of the Chief of Erkorene, which he wrote in a IVAP magazine, when he wrote about the system of demand for language: "To ensure that every public Basque will be loyal to the community which serves." On the other hand, what we would like to place on the table another subject, and, seeing what we have seen, we find it very important that the demand for the euphora should be developed among the citizens who now consider the demand of eucalyptic as disquisitioners. More. We have to make it available to all the inhabitants of the Eustaca's possession and learning, reviewing license plates, time and check systems. Nay, for this purpose, we ought to consider the prices of the courses of the public and homoloed equivocations, and of the courses which HaABE contributes and contributes with money. Language should be developed in an strategic plan to combine with the official schools, based on the universalization of learning in a free exercise. The same Illustalus, as it was foreseen in HABA, from 2016, and which has not yet been effected, would have to develop a plan of extending the continuous evaluation to all ranks. By overcoming the modern macrovalidad system and confessing entire educational rights to all the eucalyptics. By the way, these educational jurisdictions for Basques were established in the law of HABE in 1983. In order to end, we can't abandon the employees of private companies to the universalization of learning. To learn to support them we ought also to open the right to use the number of hours of credit. In general, like those who are applied to constant training and public sector. More and more facility, more people will learn to resist, and it will be easier to develop plans in the private sector. I know there are many things that have been laid on the table, many, many, and different things, but it would be a round plan. If we were to consider and agree with each other, we should be capable of the utility of the normalization of the cusss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to you all again, ladies and gentlemen. When a court issues a judgment, the only reasonable thing is to abide by and act accordingly. But it is also possible to twist the rule to continue to act against the law, even to launch campaigns of contempt for judges as to their credit or personal discredit, in this case, as has happened with one of the judges who has dared to bring the opposite to this Government in the management of the health crisis. But, in the case before us, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country ruled that the language profile requirement in the 2017 OPE for the local police of Irún should be annulled, considering that the demand for knowledge of Basque to apply for competitive positions is discriminatory, not to be complacent with the necessary respect for the right of all citizens to apply for public employment. Without a doubt, a very forceful sentence that does not invite different interpretations. Moreover, it is clear to meridian that it is not necessary for all municipal police officers to know the Basque language in order to guarantee citizens their right to be connected with the administration in Basque. He added that it would be sufficient for one of the members of each couple to know the language in question to guarantee that right to citizenship. But, far from complying with it, today We can propose to re-adjust the regulations in force to avoid the necessary judicial control and to review the existing one in order to adjust it to a reality that everyone paints as best suits him. It should be recalled that, according to official data, Spanish is the usual language in three out of four households. What of supporting the Podemos proposal should lead us to lower the requirements of the linguistic profile in Basque, something which I suppose is far from the pretence of the proposing party. Moreover, I imagine that the parties of the Government do not refer to this reality when they advocate that the Basque language should take its rightful place in the day-to-day life of the citizenry. They're obviating reality. They sell their own version and present an amendment at the end, which will be approved by roll, in order to continue to impose a process of normalization of the use of Basque, which must be remembered that it has also arrived at the Constitutional Court by the hand, in this case, of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. All thanks to a resource that Vox filed. Therefore, it should be remembered that the judges of this court argue in relation to the decree of normalization of the Basque language, which develops the Basque law, which also regulates the relations of workers and citizens with the local entities, that the Spanish and the co-official languages must live in conditions of balance and not of preference or primacy of one of them. Conditions which, if not respected, affect the access and exercise of the functions of representation of citizens. But they insist on imposing euskera on the education system, on public offers of employment, even want to impose it on companies. I'd like to stop for a moment to finish at this point, a tremendous misconception that we can pretend to collate... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... They even want to impose it on companies. I would like to pause for a moment to finish at this point, a tremendous misconception that We can pretend to stick to your initial proposal, which I also do not rule out that it is also the pleasure of the government parties. What is this about extending the hourly credit for the study of Basque in the private enterprise?, because it involves public interference in the exclusively private sphere, because it also involves an attempt to impose its criterion where they do not have the competence to do so, that is, in the private sector, and it is that sector with which they would like to end. But my question is, who pays for these kinds of offerings that you want to make, whether the businessman wants it or not? I ask. That said, it is fair, and never better said, to review the requirements of the linguistic profile in the public offers of employment, whatever the Administration calls it to avoid the discrimination of the Spanish with regard to Basque, to end once and for all with the discrimination of the people, according to their greater or lesser knowledge of the Basque language. In the light of recent judgements and cases, I believe it is a matter of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u74	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u75	Thank you, President, Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs Gorrotxategi, we, my group, the Group of the European People's Party, do not share the GNP that you are proposing to us, which basically refers to the consequences or legalization of the judgment of 4 May, that of 4 May, is not of 13 May, that of 4 May is where the judgment comes from, I have it before me and it puts 4 May 2001. The best answer to the non-legislative proposal that you put to us is the reading, the quiet, quick reading, because it is a very long sentence, of the sentence and of its legal basis, fundamentally of the number five basis. It is not, really, Mrs Gorrotxategi, that it is not a problem of regulatory adequacy, it is a problem of linguistic reality, we are where we are, we live where we live and know the Basque, those who know it or those who do not know it, and there is a reality in many places and there is also a reality of applying the rules that preserve rights, in this case the right of access to the public service and the right not to be discriminated against in relation to that right, which is an important right. That is why it is a sentence with very reasonable content, because it speaks of rights for those who know, but also for those who do not know, which speaks of both, which explains it very well the sentence, I think it is very interesting to read it and with a simple but compelling explanation the sentence. In linguistic matters there must be no discrimination and that is the fundamental element, and you are proposing a reflection of progress in aspects, of limitation, of limitation (?) abilities or actions of those who do not know Basque in view of how you react in relation to this judgment. And the claim of the claimant of the Public Job Offer of the Municipal Police of Irun was, and it looks perfectly logical and appropriate to the laws. The judgment states that there is nothing to prevent the public authorities from prescribing in the field of their respective competences the knowledge of both languages in order to gain access to certain positions of official or that it is generally regarded as a merit, inter alia, the level of knowledge of the two languages. All this must be done with the necessary respect for articles 14 and 23 of the Spanish Constitution, is that we have it for that, we have it as a guarantee and without discrimination in the application of the legal provision in question. In short, the use of euskera implies the provision of the necessary means, including the presence of Basque-speaking personnel, both in the Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community and in the Peripheral of the State, in the terms indicated by the Judgment of the Court 76/1983, as a way of guaranteeing the right to use it by the citizens of the respective community and in relation to the express provision that in respect of this article makes the third additional provision, that is, that there must be, in opposition there must be a guarantee for the people to go to euskera, there must be a guarantee. But it also says, which is fundamental, Legislative Decree 1/2020 provides in its article 64.1 that the content of the calls for the entry of the Basque Police Corps will be adapted in terms of the levels of linguistic competence in Basque required and the assessment to be given of the knowledge of that language, the forecasts laid down in Law 6/89 of the Civil Service. Article 97.7 of the Act provides that the criteria for the mandatory application of language profiles shall be treated fairly and proportionally for the jobs existing in each Administration without differentiation on the basis of the body, scale, level or group of qualifications to which the function corresponds. In other words, we see how regulatory legislation in this area seeks to strike a balance between the right of citizens to be connected with the Basque administration and the right of Spanish speakers to take up public office. And that is very clear and very normal and that is based on the legislation that you want to review absolutely and on which we have it. It is clear that the sentence continues to say that from there when it says that (?) As the events have taken place, he says that the size of the population in the municipality of Irun using Basque as a vehicle language does not reach 8%, he says. But good, but what does the judgment also say, which results from a report made at the request of the local administration itself, the results of which have not been questioned by the claimant and the administration. Is that what the local government has done, the municipal has done that study and the language is vehicular (?8 %, it's not coming. So then we don't have to complain about those things I believe so easily or we will have to find other kinds of solutions, indeed, and it won't be the complete review of the law. And well, and he keeps talking, the sentence says a lot more things. It is quite clear that I have picked up some of the issues, it is not very long and it is very well written. And I'm telling you, look... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... He says a lot more things. It is quite clear that I have taken some of the questions, it is not very long and it is very well written. And I'm telling you, look, you have to abide by the sentences, it's clear. I think you're following her or you want to review a lot of issues. What needs to be done is to read the sentences and correct the dysfunctions, and the dysfunctions do not always go in the same direction, is that they always go in the same direction. And, in this case, we see that discrimination is of someone who did not know Basque in relation to this issue, that is, and the constitutional criteria apply to this and these issues in relation to discrimination. In this case, because it is not necessary, Mrs Gorrotxategi, in her non-legislative proposal she wants to revise all the regulations, that is to say to make three or four strategic plans, two or three strategic plans propose to us to revise the regulations. Let's see, it's a question of doing things right, it's a question of normality, of analyzing the situation and doing things right and that we can all participate in the processes of access to the public service or in any other, analyzing the reality, normally, as the laws also mark, so there are these kinds of judgments. Such a clear and concrete judgment of the Court, you want to make a policy revolution, strategic in the review process, which would be absolutely inappropriate, impossible almost at this time, in the sense of further deepening discrimination, because I believe that what you have drawn as a conclusion of the judgment, the judgment says that there can be no discrimination. I believe that you want to deepen discrimination, and that I suppose you will want to eliminate, through your actions, the guarantees to those who do not know Basque in access to the public service. It's just that I think he wants that. He's after that. "No, no, they don't know Euskera, well they get upset." No, no, but they have a right. The law says so. That's what the Constitution says. That is to say, in that sense, we only understand that initiative, I say it again, and that is why it is impossible for us to support it. If you want to discriminate against those who do not know Basque and want to be municipal police in places where only 8% or the language is spoken in Basque, it is 8% of the population, that is to say it is so, and that is certified and that is verified. That is why, because of a lot of legislation, because of a lot of rules, because of a lot of plans that you propose to us to do, nothing can be discriminatory and go against constitutional rules. Well, we have tabled an amendment in its entirety which strengthens in the sense of the things I have commented on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u77	Mrs. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, I'll see if I can get the ball back to the field. I'd like to start confirming my team's commitment to eucalyptus. We have been in all the great agreements that have enabled the extension of our language for the last 40 years. Even in the toughest moments of the years of the future, when the absurdity of which tried to break up the euscal society, we socialists clearly understood that there could not be an instrument of rupture. Thus, in 1982 the socialists voted in favour of the Law of Normalization of the Euskera, with the desire that it should be, and I literally read the diary of sessions: "a law of concord, a law that continued a path of recovery of our ancestral language with agreements in the fundamental, because for the salvation of the Basque it is necessary this majority agreement not to convert the Basque language into an ideological instrument of a group that serves as a bold weapon in front of another social sector". Y terminábamos aquavención del 24 de noviembre de 1982 didento quees necessari a mayor parta del pueblo vasco, que este objectivo es todos de no unos pocos. Y de state form conseguiremos i avanzando en la normalizion de nuntra lestua vasca entre todos." And that's what we're still doing. We fully believe that any revision on the Basque Act must necessarily require the most extensive consent, because it is the patrimony of all the Basques. It's not just a team, and it's not against anyone. It's not the monopoly of euscal nationalism, nor the ghost of Spanish nationalism. As the Constitution of Spain receives it, it is a heritage which ought to be respected and protected by the eucalyptus. We were clear 40 years ago and we continue to be clear today, the Basque is the heritage of the whole Basque people neither is it against one another nor is it a monopoly of Basque nationalism nor is it to be a bold weapon of Spanish nationalism. As the Spanish Constitution states, "Euskera is a cultural heritage that will be the object of special respect and protection." And so I want to reach the second point of my speech. 'Tis one of the most precious treasures of Basque, Basque, and Spanish culture. He is becoming more and more general in this world, where one of the most important struggles is in the field of culture, all our efforts must be directed to the Spanish, to the eucalyptic, to the collapse, to the catastrophe, to find the void that he deserves. We must show the whole world that the Basque keeps the true jewels of literature, of cinema, of music, of all the people who decide to approach our language. But let's move on. No one at the present day can deny that the cradle is an effective factor, not only in public administration. But this possibility of understanding may have the risk of becoming the factor of differences, and, in order that it may not pass, we must still take a great deal of steps. I'd like to share some of the published data with you about a couple of years ago by the Commisanian Council union. Only 24% of the population of 25 and 35 is it that they can't talk about it. But that age profile... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ... and amongst the inhabitants of 35 years of age, only 24% says that he can't talk of euphora. But if we examine the unemployed of that age's profile, it climbs up to 66% of those who don't know the nerve. The data is more disturbing than 16 to 25 years, among the unemployed of this age's profile, for 69% does not speak of eucalyptus, although in society the collective of the non-descripts of that age is only 11%. We are therefore faced with a subject of great complexity and which cannot be dealt with lightly. Euskera is nowadays a factor of employability and not only in the public sector. We must pay particular attention to preventing the Basque country from becoming one more element of the labour gap. Training programmes such as those launched by Lanbide or other measures aimed at the freeness of language training will be key to making euskera a further opportunity in the search for employment. We must not forget that it is not only linguistic rights, we must also ensure the right to employment and a dignified future. One last point. I want to talk about the right that every citizen has to direct in both official languages to Administration. My Party member, and Jon Azku, who is a good friend, said that more than five years ago, in this same camera, it is necessary that the knowledge of the company's eucalyptus in the Administration should be adapted to the social reality of every Eucharistic region. In the same way, it will be necessary to establish a new profile, to enable the asymmetrical knowledge of written and verbal expressions. That's why, the Basque Socialist and the Eucalist, we're in charge of the USRR, we're asking you to make a new decree and put it in effect. Perhaps the time has come to recognize that we have been able to confuse the objectives, because one thing is to guarantee the linguistic rights of citizens, and another very different, to achieve the euskaldunization of the Basque administration or of citizens in general. Perhaps there are those who have been tempted to use the first to achieve the second. Perhaps this is also the reason for some political frustration and social confusion. Let us assume that each of these objectives, i.e. that of guaranteeing linguistic rights and that of euskaldunizing society, is achieved by totally different paths and that, although in many places they may cross, they are not and should not be unified, we do not confuse citizens and, above all, we do not confuse ourselves. I'm going to finish. By these words I have endeavoured to give him a general subject of euphoria. With all complex problems, the greatest danger we politically have is to try to simplified. They're only good at decorating the reality. We'll have to face the hinges that plan our eroskas in many respects. We cannot leave any of them behind, either from ignorance or political interest. We Socialists will continue to defend that it is a fundamental part of our personality, and we still maintain that it is necessary to depolicate the discussion. We can't just focus on political calculations, the terms in which one group or the other interests are concerned. Euskera is neither an imposition on one part of society to confront the other, nor is it a divine outflow of bound knowledge to be part of any community. We've made a lot of progress. It's been very difficult years. Perhaps all groups will have to make a conscious examination of the political use we have made of this issue, unpassionately know how to address society, tell it that we have a great treasure in our hands and that we have to be able to guard it and transmit it to future generations. But let us also tell him to approach him without complexes, without prejudice. The Basque is not going to make them better Basques or worse Spaniards, but it is going to widen and increase their horizon, their way of seeing and facing this world so complex and globalized that it is up to us to live. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u78	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. President, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. "One. As the Basque tongue is the natural language of the Basque People, it will be the rank of official languages in the Basque Country, together with the Spanish, and everyone has a right to know and use these two languages. Two. The common institutions of the autonomous community, considering the hues of the social condition of the Basque Country, will support the use of both languages, regulating their officers, and making use of the measures required to secure their knowledge. Three. Because of language, no one will be underestimated." These are the first three points of the article of the 6th State of Guernica, which, in the territory in which our state is established, gives them the rights of language to the people in the Autonomome of Euskadia. And the guarantees of these rights are public institutions. The public institutions ought to secure the right of those who, with all their freedom, require the petition of any public service. In Irunen and Bastydan, in Muskmen and Oreon, in Bergarus, at Gastea, and at Harmana, in Garib, in Aiojoin and Ordiz. And that's what they invented the language requirements. Language requirements are not set to exclude. These profiles of language serve to make sure that he is able to support the people who can ask him to perform his service, because he is a citizen who is the subject of the end and language of that service. Thus, even if he may be able to take the conditions of perfect language as one more, on a pleliad condition, it is certainly no more, one condition.... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ... for there is no condition at stake, for there is a right to secure itself from public administration. And if the language of the citizens who demand public services is not exercised by them, because that which ought to be given is not capable of resisting, and in general all the rhetoricians of the world are dissecting, if we treat of dischrimination, despised by their right. And yes, perfect languages are also modulated. Yes, especially according to the kind of social and employment, but, by modulation, no one ought to forget that all who enter into public employment are representing public administration, those public authorities who are obliged to guarantee the language of the citizens. And if it be not confirmed, as would be the case of any other right, the language is violated in this case, and consequently the citizen who demands it for the support of public service, i.e. Language is despised for reasons, and, after all, it is neglected. Whether a Right is warranted, or not granted, it cannot be half or divided. And in this case it is by no means possible to say that those who do not know the requirements of language are discriminators, or that they do not conform to legal order. From article 23.2 of the Constitution which thus says: "Asimism, los spioles titiane derecho a acceder en concissiones de sund a las funciones y cargos pliblicos con los requisitos que señalan las leyes." The laws of which we have acquired, starting with this article 6 of the Statute of Gernika, following by articles 5.2 and 5.3 of the Law on the Standardization of the Use of the Basque Country, which develops that law, in addition to other provisions of lesser rank that develop the previous ones and that form our legal order, recognize linguistic rights to Basques, rights of which the public administrations are guarantors within the whole Autonomous Community of Basque to ensure that these rights are effective and real. And to make these rights effective and real rights, Basque public administrations need to equip themselves with personnel that know Basque. This being so, in this case, the requirement laid down by the law, and taking into account, moreover, that in the last 40 years the number of people who know the Basque language has grown by 300,000 people, with which we are faced with a possibility of demand for public service in a potentially growing Basque language. And that does not constitute any discrimination against those who do not know Basque, because, and I address the numerous jurists in this House, what is the protected legal good here? The fundamental linguistic rights of Basques regarding the use of Basque as recognized in article 5.2 of Law 10/1982 of 24 November, Basic for the Standardization of the Use of Basque. That's why language requirements are needed, because language requirements are, after all, a guarantee of language rights. And therefore, as we received it with uneasiness and uneasiness, the action of this other proposition was occasioned by the sentence given by the language of the jobs of Irungian Townmen concerning the demands, especially because it may in the last decades be shaken by the Autonomy of Eucharia in the State of Ercolia, the Juridical frame which we have been accustomed to advance in accordance with the normalisation of the public sector of Ercolia, a model and a great protection in society. And therefore, as he said to the end of the enterprise of the Battos, we must establish legal guarantees so that we may not err in the way which has been brought about by the prosperous results. But this proposition, read by, seems often to be a race, to be faster, to be farther, to be more distant, to be the best of ideas. But we believe that the compass is lacking, and mixes the several parts. For this reason, we believe, to act thus in long-breathing policies is sterile; it is sterile when we act in a less precise language, and when we speak of the development of a smaller language, still more sterile. We believe that it is our duty to confirm the principles we mentioned in the expression on the 3rd of June, and to make a new decree which will already be replaced by the 86/97 Decree, which will be the work of politics, by an extensive agreement, to continue the legal frame before mentioned to be exemplary and protected. And to what he may doubt, as it has yet been done, in respect of legal order. Thus, according to this expression of the 3rd of June, we made our correction, and thus we said: "The American law demands that the Autonomy of Euskakia be followed by all the institutions of the people of Erria, with the immense work which they make to normalize the eucalyptus, in order that the Basques may take the place in the common community, and that the language of all the citizens may be guaranteed." Two: "To all the organizations of the Autonomy of the Euscidi, in the Renaissance, that the language of public employments should be followed by the legal rights and jurisdictions of which the language of necessity is established, and that the rights of the people should be placed in the centre of language, in respect of legal order." And three: "Let's look for the peace of ours and force it by a new decree following the 86/1997 Decree, which has been keyed for nearly 25 years, to continue to promote the normalization of the cradle in the public sector, and continue to continue to advance the language of the working people." As always, we'll probably hear that we're asking us to continue what we've been doing and that doesn't contribute. It's not like that. On the contrary, the situation we're in is more important than ever, keeping the position, keeping the popular language rights in the centre, and asking you to ask you to make a new decree that will continue to encourage the normalization of the cradle in the public sector and continue to continue the language of the working people. We didn't make an agreement. One always gets this feeling of being so close and at the same time so far away. But yet we would like to state that our correction is the execution of the statement which we shared on the 3rd of June, that we wish to vote for the groups you signed it; for it is because it is what you have been proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u80	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. As the leader of the non-correction team, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours. [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u81	Good afternoon. When this proposal came to us, Mrs. I'd like you to introduce the amendment, not introduce it, how we did it, right? Why? Well, the motion is very focused on the perfilen language of the police officers of Irungo, but if we go to the resolution, many other very different themes join the resolution. And when we were planning correction, we really didn't know what kind of thing we were getting at: whether we agreed to hold these points, to those we did not agree, or to concentrate on the sentence in Irun. However, I am very grateful to the whole meeting this evening for the subject of language politics, because the discussion is necessary. We saw that in one proposition there are many proposals received. It is true that in the end everything is connected, though indirectly. But where do we place the discussion today? In the change of the legislative and regulator frame required by language policy? That what happened in the office of the police officers of Irun is not to be settled again? In sizes to promote the use of a Basque, in form? In private companies, socialized area, working workers' formation? Learning Basques? Evaluation? HABE? In language class? He touches several subjects of today's proposal, all interesting and educating. We have discussed many of these, and there is still a great deal of work to be done on these subjects, as you have said, and therefore there is a great deal to be discussed. But each one, in our opinion, demands a private and special discussion. That's why today's proposal on three blocks, we're going to try three reflections on the desktop. First thoughts. When you have read the proposition, and then you have spoken contrary to the door, the author of the proposition seems to approve of the sentence given by the judge Garrido, and therefore accept the discrimination produced by the Basque decree, and place the proposition in this frame. Consequently, it is suggested that the necessity of changing the legislative and individual frame of language for politics should be solved, and not conversely, in order to correct the desecration of the action. Read the text, read the notes, can be interpreted. But what I said was: today you said something else from the Atrile. And what seemed to have been made out of it, seems to be opposed to the Constitution and the State of Guernica. Mr. Faraway has read to us the state of Guernica. I won't be the defender of the constitution, but both of them? They tell us that we have two official languages, and moreover that eus is a natural language. So both languages should be the same treatment. What for? To receive service in one of those official languages which the citizens desire, without entering into other idealistic and national views. And I want to remind Mr. Barrio of being a civil servant, it's not a right. And we should all get in a lot of that, not just in the case of the eucos, eh? It is not a right to work in public function. Second reflection. From this point of view, when we talk of dissecting, when we talk of declination, the gradations seem to be made between discriminations: There are first-class discriminations, secondary and third class. Genero accounts, about race accounts, about etnia and language. And it seems that the language is dissecting of the third level of dissecting, and that it does not consider the same consideration whether it has discrimination of the genus, or that it has dischrimination of the race. Well, it looks like talking euscals are disseminating, because it's not a distraction. Looks like it. It seems that the citizens who want to live on the eucalyptus, and who want to live, are not dissecting. And there should not be a difference between disseminations. I don't know the concept of interaction that you know. Well, I invite you to examine and study the concept of intersecrationality, the theory, the theory. It's very interesting. Third deliberation, in regard to the sentence of Irun. We tried to direct a united action into the legislature. For this reason we went up to the teams who could be sensitive in the matter, but we received no answer. And we'd get in touch with the teams over and over again. At last EAJ answered us and directed our contributions, and we agreed to another proposal according to the law of EAJ. But seeing that the other teams didn't see him, EAJ didn't want him to present himself to the Basque Country alone with the Union. And so we made a simple statement in this house in front of the media. After this declaration, a Cadratic Law of Administration sent us a proposal. And he told us that he proposed the same proposal to Poseidon and EAJ to present them all together. In particular, he proposed 18 of the Public Function Act. To add a second paragraph to the article, to prevent the event of Irun, and to offer to the municipal councils a legal protection, and thus to give them no discrimination in language. But this one, too, was in his own way. On the one hand, Podemos did not see him, and on the other, EAJ told us that it was their wager that the law of the public clerk should come to the subject in this tramite. So again it became evident, that language in politics is different in point of view, and that even in the presence of the most violent attacks we are unable to combine the view, in order to unite and agree. And crude diagnosis... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... and even in the presence of the most violent attacks, we are not able to unite the view, to unite and agree. And that's the crude diagnosis. The measures we plan in this different point of view differ from each other. There are some who plan to follow the course of things without doing anything, others plan to guide the measures in another direction, and the third try to plan the exact measures. I'm not going to tell you what's good and what's bad, probably all the roads have the good side and the bad side, of course. We do not share the measures which have been designed to increase dissemination, and those which have violated rights in eruption and increased them in discrimination. And at the moment, that's the crude reality we've got. In the meantime, we're back in pretty languages, because the same thing isn't a positive thing to follow, just as the same goes on, it returns to us. What society has changed terribly, it is true, because of the political policy which has been made for many years, well, no one will deny it, but you know how much the society has changed? It is not now that you continue to do the same thing, but rather to retreat. We have more and more violent attacks, and the euscalation requires us to make alliances and enterprises with consent. But for that, there is no capacity and no choice. I don't know what to call it, but there's no opportunity and ability to cooperate and to deal with at these times. And it is evident that language is also politics, as it ought to be, in all other fields; for good and evil, politics is politics. But language also requires discussion and confession to move and move. Let us see whether we are capable of this discussion and political confession, that we are able to move from this view of difference into the circle of union and agreement, because we have more need than ever.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the answers, together, Podemos-Nozzer, the representative of the Anxiec team, the Signora Hatage, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u83	Thanks again. Mr Carmelo Barrio, you speak to me, well, actually not just the, discrimination, possible discrimination is the central object of this whole debate. (?) discrimination, discrimination is the other side of the principle of equality, the principle of equality, which is, by the way, the catalyst for achieving justice. But the principle of equality what it tells us, what it is the secret of the principle of equality: to treat equal what is equal, to treat unequal what is unequal, because if equality is not achieved. On the basis of that, too, it is the Constitution in article nine, which contains the principle of equality, which states that the public authorities are obliged to remove obstacles in the event of inequalities. And when we move the principle of equality and non-discrimination and the need to remove the obstacles for equality to be real and effective, when we move it to the debate of linguistic policy, when we move it to a situation of unequal linguistic concurrence, in this case what the principle of equality demands is an act, a treatment favorable to the strengthening of the language that is weaker, in this case the Basque. Who is responsible for making this balance, because it is true that a balance must be struck between linguistic rights and linguistic reality, who is responsible for making this balance, the legislator, of course not a judge. Not to a judge, who also does not give a sentence (?), which goes beyond the law, is that it is a sentence against legem, because it turns out that it welcomes to determine how many there should be, how many officials should know Basque, it welcomes an element that has to do with the use of the language and not, as the law says, with the knowledge of the language. And this is the factor that must in any case be taken into account, because certainly if the use of the language in a place where the knowledge of the language is much greater than that of its use, it is not precisely a weakness, a weakness that has one of the languages, our language, one of our official languages. And if we start from the fact that we love the tongue and want to protect it, then this data would have to worry us very much. In addition, the object, the objective of our non-law proposal, precisely, and in relation to this, is precisely to facilitate the learning of the Basque language to those who do not know it without diminishing the rights of anyone. That's the main objective. Me decía el representante del Partado Socialist, that it can't be an instrument of rupture. All right, all right. And the revision would require a large consent. Okay. For this was our end, and our starting-point, we need a great deal of assent on this subject. And for this purpose, and for the sake of this vast consent, we have brought our proposition, so that we may speak later. But this was our proposition, this is our proposition. The Assistant EAJ tells me, well, I agree with him, with all the first part he's done. But then you told me that the compass is missing from this proposal. Hombre, I see the compass very clear, and you will not enter it, but the object of my official existence is very clear, very concrete compass. And also, let the money not be an excuse or a problem in order to learn to support it... [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] ... He has a concrete and light compass. And also, let the money not be an excuse or a problem in order to learn to support it. I believe that these two elements were very clear in this proposition, and that there is no want of compass. And finally, the representative of the EH Collector said that we've involved very different themes. It's true, we've brought in different things. This also shows us that we need to discuss many things in order to be able to study them in depth. And, well, we made this proposal. It would be fine if you'd made any corrections, and then it'd give us a chance to find out what we're doing and what we don't have. Yes, I'd like to tell you about what you said at the first point. Sentence, that we have always been opposed to the sentence of Irun, or we have recourse to it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u85	Well, very briefly. I would ask a general question to all the members of this House. Do you think he spends little money on euskera? Do you think that the economic and institutional resources devoted to Basque are scarce? Because I believe that it is a broad economic contribution that is being devoted to the impulse and implementation of the euskera with terrible results, as we are observing. Euskera is clear that it cannot generate discrimination, but it does. To this day, the one who wants to learn Basque has all the support of the Administration, all the support, both economic and personal; what is not of receipt is the imposition, also attacking one of the weakest points of our society, the work, the bread of many of our families, that is not of receipt. Of course it's discriminatory. And I will also set you an example of standing, of street. Osakidetza staff with 35 years as a family doctor, I repeat, 35 years old, a good doctor or doctor, because the years he has provided to the Basque Health service determine that he is a good doctor. Interestingly, he's going to retire without a fixed seat. Curious. You know why? Because he doesn't have the euskera's linguistic profile. Isn't this discrimination? You guys value it. We are not jurists, Mr Urrutia, of course not, nor do we intend nor are we going to pretend, we just accept and abide by the judgments of those who are jurists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u86	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. I represent the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadnos, Mr. Barrio. Then the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u87	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. With your permission, from the seat, briefly. To Mrs Gorrotxategi, who tried to disqualify the sentence and spoke of a treatment favourable to the Basque woman. There is, Mrs Gorrotxategi, there is, there is nothing more to see than the legislation that has evolved and that has been built, we are witnesses to it in this Parliament all these years. But that regulation is not unlimited. The favorable treatment is not unlimited, and sometimes the application of certain uses or certain provisions clashs with something, in this administrative case, it clashs with something, and if it clashs with the law, and the law can only say that something has clashed with that regulation, with that application. And that's what happened with that normality. I think we must give it that normality, that when something does not like it and especially in this area of linguistics, it reacts in this way that you have done trying to review all the regulations. I don't think so. I believe that this issue should be taken up normally. Mrs. Ubera, you make the right to be an official not a right... Look, Judgement 76/183 of the Constitutional Court. "The Constitution enshrines the fundamental right to equal access to public service". 23.2. And that is what there is, that is, do not tell me that it is not a right because it is a right that is enshrined in the Constitution. Mr Urrutia also spoke about the characteristics of all this, who are jurists. Well, the sentence is very clear. We see how the regulatory legislation in this area, in addition to the fact that the judgment speaks of the regulatory legislation, seeks to strike a balance between the right of citizens to relate to the administration, of what we have talked about: right, and right, in that fundamental right of the Spanish-speaking people to access public office. In other words, we must combine these rights and that is what this sentence is doing, but normally, seeing the sociolinguistic reality. That is to say, in that sense, I believe it is clear that some are killing cannon flies in connection with this issue. The best thing is to settle (...) calmly these oppositions and make things go well and that there may be Spanish speaking people who present themselves to the opposition of the Municipal Police if they are fit and if they meet the conditions. That is to say, and not, as the judgment has also shown, because we cannot extend ourselves, that there are certain issues that have to do with profiles that are not well designed to ensure that it should be non-discrimination. And that's clear. And finally, we cannot support the amendment of – we have our own – but that of the groups that support the Government because, we believe, there is one important point missing, which is in relation to when a group tries to disqualify a judgment, that is, as a point, that the judgments of the courts are respected, that is not what the amendment of all the groups that support the Government says.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u88	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u89	Mr Barrio, "respecting the existing legal order", says the amendment we have tabled. But, well, I would like to focus exclusively, almost exclusively, on Mrs Gorrotxategi, if you don't mind. I believe that this initiative had two errors, two errors of departure. It's my opinion... [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... almost exclusively in Mrs Gorrotxategi, if you don't mind. I believe that this initiative had two errors, two errors of departure. It's my opinion, obviously it's my humble opinion. First, to present it in the context of the sentence, to involve with the sentence package what has made those who have not wanted to enter the debate because they have thrown balloons out with comments on the sentence, some text comments, even glosses to it, without having entered into the deep of the debate. That I believe it was a necessary and relevant debate and that I, of course, thank you for bringing it here. And the second part, if I may in any way, is an ambitious sin. A teacher of mine said that no matter how tender the bread is and how good the ham is, there comes a time when if you keep putting more ham in the sandwich, there's no god to eat it, right? Then I think they have put many points, they have put many points, and in the end that need or that desire to concretely concretely because it has a little distanced, has of course distanced my group, from being able to reach a transactional. Agreeing that we are in much of what is being said. We fully agree, for example, on the need to move towards creativity in the formation of the Basque country. We also agree on the need to provide workers with coverage. It is true that any attempt to euskaldunize in private companies has to go through mandatory coverage by the Administration, because the effort to learn euskera can never be recharged on the backs of workers. And then there will have to work, you know that we have a non-legislative proposal put forward by Mrs Ubera, which at some point I imagine we will end up debating in the committee, which is a bit of a matter for private companies. It is also true that we need to reflect very deeply on the whole system of linguistic profiles. We totally agree with the belarriprest or with the need to look for mixed profiles, because obviously, in the infinity of the public administration there are a lot of relations with the citizenry that do not necessarily require an almost philological knowledge of the Basque, and that it would possibly have to be reviewed. And that's why we were also talking about the need to review the decree. We therefore agree, but we believe, and on this note I agree with Mrs Ubera when she said that this initiative should possibly be five or six different initiatives. By enriching the debate on each of these issues, I believe that I can deepen, and also, if I may say so in any way, by dragging all groups into the debate on each of these issues, right? Preventing us from escaping, if you sentence up you sentence down. And then, of course, I'm sorry we couldn't reach an agreement. Anyway, thank you both for your effort and Mr Angulo's for trying until the last minute to make a deal. And, well, I imagine that we will have time to continue to discuss a matter which, at least, if something has highlighted this debate is that we are concerned and deal with much of this parliamentary arc. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u90	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Foreign patriots are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, of course we respect the sentence. Another thing is that I can express my disagreement with it. And we express our respect for the legal system in our amendment. I don't think he's read it to her. And I agree that there can be no discrimination in language matters. Of course there can be no discrimination. But if this is very simple, we all know the reality in which we live. Who is the strong and who is the weak? What is the strong tongue and what is the weak tongue? Since when did the boy eat the big one? Then, those who have recognized the right, that we are talking about a right, we are talking about a right, and the right of workers to work in the public service, yes, but it is that the public service has to be a guarantor, and it says so expressly in our legal system, has to be a guarantor of those rights that are recognized. This is very simple. In this house we have a good body of translators, who do an improbable job. There may be translation professionals at the level of Euskadi who know even more languages than the most languages know from among Parliament's translators. But we need precisely those who know Basque, because here come citizens as parliamentarians who have the whole world's right to make their speeches in Basque, and if we do not have translators who know Basque, because probably many of us could not intervene as we usually do. I mean, does that discriminate against the excellent translation professionals in Euskadi who don't know Basque? No, but it is an important requirement, it is the requirement to be able to realize the rights to which Basque citizens are entitled. Mrs. Hatage, in the first part you said you agreed with me. I hoped, I hoped, because the first part wasn't for you. It was the first part, especially for those who take it for language requirements and designers and so on. But the second part is. And I agree that we have to adapt and that innovations and things change, and 25 years and 40 years and so many have passed. But rights remain the same, which must be the centre. And, you see, I will confess to you that what I am about to say may have arisen from suspicion, fear, or prejudice, but ask me how long reforms and innovations have passed, and when I hear such things, it is always for the less. And these innovations must be done, but these innovations must be made in thought, especially two things. The first is to place the rights in the centre, and then to look at all the things that have been said here... [[End of tape 53.]] [[LIV. Start of tape]] ... and then, considering several things which have been said here, we have more and more talk of euscals. And with freedom they will demand public services either by eucalyp or by youth, but they may, as a matter of fact, increase this degree of demand. You wanted a Garned camp and a vast deal of deal. And you know, and there's a language set on it to make a big deal. And you know that. Perfil asymmetric. Well, as an exception, I don't know, maybe they can be created, but we don't see how that should be the rule. And then there's 5. the point where I thought it was great. When you said... I won't find her... When you were saying, "Let him be sure that the demand for the Basque should be connected with the eucalyptics among the citizens who consider the demand as dissiminators," we are a strategic plan." Do you think there are people who are disseminators here, and who take them, who are suspected? Do you think Mr. Barrio, and especially Mrs. Martín, have their speeches caused by distrust? Let us suppose them to be suspected. Do you think they get along with a strategic plan? I'm a little pessimistic in the field, and I don't... I can see the impossibility of repairing them. For once, I agree with Mrs. Ubera: too many things are confounded in this enterprise, and well, with regard to the public function, and so on. But we must not forget one thing: what we finally agree is that the 86/97 Decree must be changed. Right? That's what we agree with. But this decree regulates the process of normalizing the use of the Basque Autonomy in the Erecimia Governments of Erlaboria; that is to normalize the use of the cradle in the administrative countries. Here's where they talk about...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u92	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u93	Yes, right away. There's a lot of things you talk about out of here. And besides, you have mentioned, you have made a mention of it, saying that the money will not be a problem. Well, I don't think it was a problem, and we shouldn't be diffusing that idea. Mrs. Ubera, if there's ability. If there is a capacity to make deals, they must be treated and taken advantage of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u94	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u95	Far away, sir, if there's ability, let's hit it, we look for holes in it. You mentioned that you agreed with me, but only then did you mention that you agree with the things that are too much confused. I hoped you'd agree with me a little more this evening, I thought, that we'd shared it in several other things. Come on, let's get these qualities down. Mrs. Hatred, you know, in the previous legislation, we had a great deal of agreement with your team, and we made a great deal of arrangement. And I hope, in this legislation, that's how it is. And, by the way, I'd like to convey my thanks to Mr. Lander Martín, because there was really a great deal of work done with him in the matter of the battle, and to see if we can be able to follow the road this time. I thought, on the other hand, that good doctor or the Basque controversy was over, but it seems to be no. I'd like to invite you to read perfect Os as a member language. You'll find out where and where it's required of the eucalyptus. You'll notice, you'll notice. But unfortunately, so many professional healths have been tried without being fixed, but the problem is not to rest, eh? The problem is contractional politics. And that's why they have to retire without being fixed. It's often Europe, isn't it? In so many pretty things. And even today, I'd like to bring a European reference to this. And for that, I'd like to look at the capital of Europe. Look, the capital of Europe, Brussels, has two official languages: French and Fleming. It has more than 20% of the population capacity in Flemish. But you need to know two languages to work in the Public Administration. Would any one accuse a single word French in Brussels that they are dissected, or would he remark that public workers are in the service of the people? That's your example. Gaur, Konstituzioa askotan aipatu dugu, éta nik ére Konstituzioa eta Gernikako Akordioa ekarri nahiko nituzke berriro. Begira, Konstituzioak, 3. artikuluan, hainbat gauza exacteten ditu. Baina, esaten du: "The other Spanish languages will also be official in the respective autonomous communities, according to their statutes. The richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be the object of special respect and protection". Nik ez dut Konstituzioa defendatuko, bathe hori jartzen du. Gernikako Akordioa: "No one shall be discriminated against on the grounds of language". The question is: who, who is discriminated against because of the language? Eta hori, bitch horri were a behar zaio. Look, I'd like to reflect again, because it seems to me that we're working on the eternal frame, rolling in the romance, just as Mr. Egibar mentions it several times, and that we need to get a little further out of the frame. And it's the frame, our treasure is ours, our legacy is ours. Look, I don't want a treasure. I don't want a treasure that's in a box. I want to live on my own. I want you to have a chance to live on, in all the realms of my life. The Basques feed me, and the Basques give me breath and food to live; that is what I want. For, unfortunately, every day we feel strangers in our country. Foreigners... [[End of tape 54]] [[Start of tape 55.]] ... To live-that is what I want. For, unfortunately, every day we feel strangers in our country. Foreigners. It's like we always have to apologize, beg, ask permission to keep up. Even in this house, for the Basques, it's a double job. A double job for anything. I don't know if you guys can see it. And that's what's happening. And all is pitiful and sad: that in the country of the eupchasis there should be a constant obstacle to talk of euphoria. And now pretty words do not console us, at least not me. Beyond fine words, we need measures. And we need brave measurements. We're in Discount Time. We're in Discount Time. And it's not enough now to follow the same thing. We need courage, we need measurements, we need politics. We need language policy so that the cradle may have a place worth it, and there may be no discrimination.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. After discussion, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzer the original text of the proposition as well as the Anthera team, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 74; in favour six; on the contrary, 47; abstainments, 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u97	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote for Misto's full-line correction, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u98	So it's not accepted. We vote for the entire regional correction of Popular-Ciudadus, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u99	It has not been accepted, and in the end, Eucabertians, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the contrary, 7; the Abstations, 27; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u100	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "As the patrioticist and Basque Socialists did by parlamentary groups, so to speak, concerning the formation of ponciency in the Debara. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed teams, the representative of the Socialist Basque Group, Mrs. Galástegui is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u101	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Well, as you know, the region of Debabarrena, historically singularized by its industrial character and its remarkable degree of socio-economic well-being, has been suffering for several years now a process of population loss, urban deterioration and declining positions in industrial capacity that is negatively affecting its economic and social well-being. The 2008 crisis has markedly manifested this situation and has worsened significantly due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and today has brought about weaknesses in the territory, especially in the targeting of the most vulnerable people and businesses. On the territorial and social level, Debabarrena occupies a central place in the Basque Autonomous Community, equidistant from the three Basque capitals. There are two municipalities... there are municipalities in two of the different historical territories that are located away from the metropolitan cores that both Bilbao and Donostia have been conforming to their urban development strategies, not due to lack of communications, ladies and gentlemen, but by the same development model that in the Basque capitals have been realizing for a long time, Bilbao in a metropolitan strategy that grows concentrically and in Donostia with the performance of the Metro of Donostialdea is configured a strong metropolitan strategy that will arrive in its case until Zarautz, but will again leave our region to the margin. The farthest point in both cases is Debabarrena. In addition, also the creation of the Basque Eurocity, the Donostia Baiona environment also further removes the possibility of metropolitan influence towards the Lower Deba. We are a region subject to tolls and that means that we are less competitive and also represents a comparative aggravation with respect to other regions. The economic reality centrifuges towards the Basque capitals, forming poles of attraction, investment and residence and development that unbalance, or rather, that is, clearly, limit our ability to compete very significantly. In short, Debabarrena is a region subject to the cross-urban influence of the three Basque capitals, well communicated, entrepreneurial and with great security opportunities in its strategic positioning towards them. That is why it is a priority to strengthen ourselves in the face of the model of development of capitals and it requires policies of territorial balance that non-local governments must design and provide. The urban is key to configure a more attractive space in each municipality, because the reality is that the configuration of the municipalities and especially its complicated... [[End of tape 55]] [[Start of tape 56.]] ... The urban is key to setting up a more attractive space in each municipality, because the reality is that the configuration of the municipalities and especially their complicated orography, have contributed to a development in the congested urban environment, very unkind, with a very high density of housing and with many industrial buildings in urban center. It is therefore a priority to intervene in vulnerable neighbourhoods, congested areas, as I said, and ageing, with high density of housing and with many buildings over 50 years old and with a large land occupancy by a large number of industrial buildings. It must be said that the efforts of some municipalities to modernize and make towns and villages more friendly, people-friendly. Some of us have transformed those so-called "workshop city." Even so, the effort cannot be unilateral, because we continue to face many difficulties. For example, there are road infrastructures that fragment the urban grid and main focal points of both acoustic and, for example, atmospheric pollution; there is a lack of pedestrian link between the municipalities, although significant progress has been made in recent years; there is also a lack of connection of urban centres with the rural environment and lack of green spaces; and there is also a need to establish measures to help mitigate the effects of floods, which is the main environmental risk of our region. Although the Deba River and its tributaries have been valued, the complete sanitation of the low river basin has not yet been completed. And, on the other hand, we have a high energy dependence on the region, due to a lack of energy generation centres, and therefore also a low deployment of renewable energy. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that our municipalities lose their appeal and, therefore, lose their population as well. Debabarrena has traditionally been a region with a marked industrial character, you know, which has been reflected both in the number of establishments and in the employment generated by this sector of economic activity. It has been an example of entrepreneurship and an economic lung for Euskadi. But the effects, as I said, of the 2008-2014 crisis and the new pandemic crisis have had a strong impact on companies and have resulted in the disappearance of a significant part of our industrial fabric. This destruction in most cases has been due to the closure of SMEs and micro-SMEs which, in a subtle, almost unnoticed way, have been disappearing and with this is also disappearing an industrial ecosystem, specifically our industrial ecosystem. In short, apart from the impact of the pandemic on the industrial economy, we face two major challenges. On the one hand, the necessary process of regeneration of the industrial fabric and, on the other, the attraction of investments and impact projects that mitigate the effects that the region is suffering from this territorial imbalance that previously commented on. Opportunities exist and to show a button, for example, the development of the second phase of the Eibar Technology Pole, without going further. As far as the services sector is concerned, the crisis has also had a hard impact and, as far as the tourist destination is concerned, Debabarrena is a multi-product destination where gastronomic, cultural, sporting tourism, etc. are combined. One of its main distinguishing elements is the Basque Coast Geopark, to which two of the municipalities of Deba Debabarrena belong, namely Deba and Mutriku. Most of the businesses in this environment are of a family nature and it is clear that there is a need for places. In the social sphere, and this is very important, there is a serious demographic problem, a gradual loss of population. There was a much more pronounced ageing process than in other territories and the rate of that ageing was very high. The age pyramid graphically shows us the difficulties that will not be very long-term to replace people in the economic activities of the enterprises of the region. The replacement rate, ladies and gentlemen, in Debabarrena is below the minimum required. In addition, we have higher unemployment rates than the rest of Gipuzcoan territory, with very specific characteristics. Women account for the majority of the unemployed, most of the unemployed are over 45 years of age, there is a very large percentage that has no accredited professional qualifications. And unemployment mainly affects the services sector, but the number of industry has recently increased. Unemployment of young people is also very important. All this data, Your Honor, is very important. We could talk a lot, the percentages could be very concrete, the numerical data that will be part of what we are supposed to bring and will reveal to us, and it will be up to us to see them and address them in more detail in the presentation that we agree to create today. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists, we aspire, the Socialists want that Euskal Hiria, that Euskadi more cohesive, more egalitarian, more just, more competitive, and that is why we have clear, meridianly clear, that Debabarrena cannot be a transit region. It is a bond of union of our country and it represents a backbone of our invaluable community. The effort of the municipalities, I insist, is unquestionable, but without supralocal institutions involved, indeed, in the region, this goal will not be possible. We have a lot of work ahead of us, and I think what it does is, because we're talking about this, basically it's putting on the dive and working. Not without thanking EH Bildu for his contribution and the signing of this compromise amendment that we are going to adopt and also thank the rest of the groups, I am sure they will give us their support. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u103	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everybody and a special greeting to the mayor of the Debara who are with us today, welcome. Of what Men Galástegui said... [[End of tape 56]] [[Start of tape 57.]] ... welcome to the mayors of the Debar with us today. I will say as much as Miren Galástegui has said, not in vain, because it is a proposition of both parties which we have brought here today. And, well, the country of the Decarei is composed of eight townships of Biscaia and Gipure; Mallahia and Ermua, Biziah, Ebar, Sornathun, Elgobar, Mendaro, Deba, and Mutricum, Gipuzah. I should say that there are several countries, because there are differences among the people. It may even be said that it is situated in the Strategian, because it is in the middle of the Euskade. But this, too, has its bad side, as Mirene has said, because we are far from three capitals. And that often doesn't make the consequences good. Historically, he's been an industrial region and he's still a part of it. And that, well, his industrial character, as social and economic, would seem to have brought a high degree of well-being into our region. But, it's just a few years back, from the 2008 crisis to this covid crisis we've all been shaking, so the situation has changed. Our country has had a remarkable decline in manufacture power, and a remarkable loss of population. And, well, after having shared this diagnosis with the different institutions and motives of the country, and not based on so many facts, we present this proposition, which we have brought here today, because we find it necessary to reflect deeply about our region. And well, then, to take so many measures, which have formerly been our region, to recover it properly. The remarkable industrial character is historical, but many companies and jobs have been lost in the past few years. And thus the degree of well-being has been visibly lowered. The small and average corporations are historically composed of our hundred industrials, and their closures, as Mrs. Galástegui said, have been affected by so many tractor companies in our industry? So we have to challenge the industrial network to re-create, and, of course, we have to be able to attract new projects in the future. In the past few years, we'll say that the region has moved toward the bay third sector. And, well, although the third sector isn't bad, I think that's not bad, if it happens to the disadvantage of industry, at least there's something that needs to take care of us. I have also remarked that the loss of the population has been remarkable in the last two decades. This has been a little stabilized in recent years, especially by strangers. And, well, if we compare this as a data, with the Gipuian data or the Basque data, then the average of foreigners is higher in our region. And, indeed, there are many other socionomous indicators which, in our opinion, justify the setting up of this power. For example, that there is no such thing as unemployment, poverty, or the neglect of society, as to be of any use in our country. And I have also said that our country is numerous, because there are obvious differences among nations. But there are certain people, such as Solar Long, who are the mayor of the place, or Ebar, who, in these socienomenomeal phenomena, are, in fact, not very good at all. And, to conclude, we should say, "Allography is not the most pleasant," but the complexness of certain nations. It's done a lot in the past few years, accessal and so on. But, many neighborhoods, they're old-fashioned. Even closing industry brings consequences from a city's point of view, where several of the factories have been shut up, and many of them are in danger of falling. And we think it's necessary to do an integral hand in many of these areas. And all this, I think, is to be considered at present on the march, or at least this is our proposition, whether we place it in our power or industry. So, to the Basque People, even to my gratitude, because we've agreed with them very easily. I think your proposal makes our original proposal rich. I also believe that in our region the local Development Agency is extremely important, and I believe that Derbyshire is a very important cause in our region. And thanks to the agreement we've made with you, well, we've just introduced it into this middle course that it'd have to be the result of making a strategic plan that would have to be the result of our region going back to work, and that it's all the way up to the site's development Agency. So, I think, today we all hope that everyone else agrees with this proposal. And, well, we start the road and see if we really expect the result to be the way we're going when we're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing over to the leaders' teams, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Iriart, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u105	Good evening, Congressmen. Chief of Parliament, Mayors of Decbare, good afternoon to all. Well, today, you see, right? , and I think unanimously, we shall agree to set up a new local power. Well, tonight, we're going to create a Debarn potential, and welcome. Welcome to local... [[End of tape 57.]] [[beginning of tape 58.]] ... Today, we're going to create a Debar's major, and welcome. Welcome to the local quartering train. As I said, we'll have a new district pomp that will be from the Debars today, but this route began at 2015 on the left side of the South and on the initiative of the Basque People gathering. I think it's important to praise this because, after all, it's not the first stop here at the Debaret today, the development of the place, and at the time of talking about regional development, it started on the left bank in 2015, and that's how the Oarsoline station came in pretty fast, isn't it? These were at first the less degraded regions of Araba, Biscaia, and Gipu; and these were, according to the criteria of the European Union, such as might have been called "decisive Reason" or a place. These, after this, were joined by the power of the Achaians, as we believe, by the proposals of the Basque People of Union, because we saw that it was necessary to maintain the balance of territory, and to make room for the weakest part of the province of Araba. And thus the power of the Achaians started, and the work which is still in motion was completed. In this way, there were proposed proposals to make or produce the most weak areas on the table, and by the way, we've managed to put local and local development into this parliamentary agenda and the Eucommy agenda. It seems interesting to us that this trajectory, because the Basque Country collects believes that the region can be an important actor in this endgen development. And, as I have already observed, new stations will come in the future, and it is important for us to make an inquiry into the state of the regions, because we had evidently what the first regions would be, what these early stations were, how clearly they were the weakest regions. But in this new dynamic we see a great deal of importance in the knowledge of the conditions of the regions in the future, of the regions of the Araba, Biscaia, and the regions of the Gipus. And in this sense, we do not understand that, in the last week, we have rejected the other proposal as an examination of the social condition of the regions. We do not understand, we do not understand, because it was an important instrument, in our opinion, to know what the state of works and districts really is. As I have said, the Basque Country is understood to be an interesting tool for viewing the social development of the districts as subjects. Our hundred productives are composed of Pyme and Micropymae, and it seems to us that the regions are space at the time of the development of public policies. And as an instrument, we believe that the development agency is playing important paper, we believe and have proved it. Moreover, as specialization spaces may be produced in a natural manner. And in the form of the subject, many countries have their own personality, and they work. The challenges that follow, or the challenges that come to us, are colossal. We have a climate crisis here, with zero commitments to 2050, digitalization and technological influence, that hits us in a hundred projections, digitalization processes, automatization processes, a demographic crisis, ours is an old-fashioned town, and we have a demographic pyramid turned upside down. We can't forget the crisis of guarding, we need support and protection strong at the time when we're going to lead a cohesion of public. And finally, as a challenge, there is a crisis of the accumulation of income and wealth, for some, for the majority, the crisis, the prosperity of the few. Rescue of wealth is indispensable at the time when cohesion of territory is produced. And the Debar, as I said before, is an industrial region. I don't want to repeat the words, but we clearly have the heart of this sector of mechanics. This week at the Milan market several local corporations have been found, with the Dancebat team, the Soraluc, Geminis or Doim. This area has been an important economic engine, a lot of culture with work, and family workshops have led to represent the country as refractory in the world as Euscal Escal economic and Debaria. In this sense, we can't even do it, or we can't leave the workshops and houses on top of each other, can we? the city and the factories next to each other. But at the same time, this region was able to cope with the changes in which the transformation was effected, and among them, it is known how some of the manufacturers who made weapons went to make bicycles, and how they invented it in this reconnaissance, isn't it? 21. in the latter it is true that the region is in a state of declamation. The unemployment data is the largest of the muscles. It's a huge 100-g industrial closure. It's closed from 2009 by 30%. And some are known to all, as Alpha, but most of them are small families, those who have gone quietly to shut up and are going away, who have secret deaths, and, in short, put the survival of the country in a crisis. It's just that we're all old with the head of the core and industry, we all know the peoples. And, as Mrs. Galástegui said, the state of Ciudad Taller is a great deal of degraded spaces in the country. We've also got old age indexes, we've got an old country, and the rate is also negative. The poverty rates in general are higher than those of other regions. In this sense, Debaria requires an impulse, and we see the origin of this power to excite that impulse with a good eye. But this will lead to commitments, and we believe that commitments can't be economically, in the budget departments, reflection. We're supposed to go deeper and deeper, and we're going to have to ask 'em or 'cause we're gonna have to ask 'em for 'em and all, in their everyday life, to pay attention to their nices, to the provinces, because today, the contrary policies are planned from the Euskons and chattels. The cities are strong, and the unbalanced politics of the country are in progress. All the PTS require Bilbai, Gasteiz, and Donostia reforth. Renewing projects, accelerators, technology centers are targeted in cities, and that's what's for the good of cities means to evacuate the country. And that's the policy that's going on at this moment from the Dreams and Peachers, which weakens a region like the Debareans. Even my previous orators have mentioned the negative influence of cities in the region, which is so. Hence, the development policies of this government ought to restore them to the balance of the territory, which ought to be confined to the provinces, and not only to the interests of the country. [[End of tape 58.]] [[LIX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Hence the policies of the development of this government ought to be restored to the balance of the territory, and not only to the interests of the states. And so apart from that, economic development can't be big companies in the middle as they are now. Here's an idea, and it's a big company that if I help, the little ones will be helpful, but these public policies and help don't get to the pyms and micropyms. Caililization doesn't reach the smallest of the workshops. And, nice English words, plus "basque," these programs that end up don't reach our hundred industrial producers. And they often come only to great companies, and these companies, many times, are left to the hands of the vulture funds, and are desecrated. So it's time to apply other policies. We're going to talk about a lot of stuff at the bottom of the debate, but in the mill, the Euskooks and the beautiful gossips have a direct effect, and we'll have to change them too. Because through this paper we have an obligation to respond to the challenges of the twenty-first century. And, in that sense, we have to commit ourselves, to commit ourselves by means of economic items, but beyond Debabarrena needs a push that is not limited to a budget stone. The Basque Government and the Chambers must encourage the regions, as capitals and large enterprises are being promoted today. But this only strengthens the cities to the detriment of the regions and strengthens the big companies, which then many of them end up in the hands of vulture funds and in the hands of people who have no scruples towards us, towards our country, towards our region. Eta, ez dut nik Bakarrik esaten hemen daukagun errorka itzela her, éta politica publikoak aldatu behar say it. (...) berak, Garapen Agentziak berak, aber azkeneko txostenean edo inform, do not aipatzen say "Debabarrena Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan", hau Sailean bertan egina izan dena. Bere Azkeneko parrafoan horrela said: "With these data, a centripetal economic reality is hidden towards the Basque capitals, forming two poles of attraction of investment, resilience and development that unbalance..." or said clearly "...they leave no possibility of competition to regions like Debabarrena". On the whole, we should be talking about a great many things here, but it is up to us to give us the change of the root. And in these changes from the root, there will be EH Collect. So we're working with this committee. To work, to local development, to believe that Agenitz and the United States will have an important role in the survival of the Basque People in the future. A lot of thieves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u106	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Well, let us put the magnifying glass on one of the most disadvantaged regions in this Parliament, it seems to us that it is always good and let us hope that this will produce results. I can now announce at the outset that we will vote in favour of this proposal. But I do want to take the opportunity to say a few things. The first of them is that we think this had to be done right. And that means, first of all, that we could have a list of all the regions of Euskadi, ordered according to a set of solvent or, at least, consensual indicators. We don't have that. First of all, we have the problem that, I have very little data by regions, almost all come by provinces or by villages or by municipalities. It is a question of preventing the choice of the regions from being made on purely political criteria, or I do not know, or otherwise, and that I do not know whether it is very transparent, because this region has actually been proposed, it is well, I am sure it needs, I repeat, I will not question it, but it is possible that perhaps there are others who need it more. I don't know, it all depends, as always, on the indicators you set yourself on. And perhaps we should have some kind of prior report, although, I don't know, why we should have some significant data. It is that in the proposal that has been made today there is not a single line that justifies the choice of this region in relation to others, who have similar situations, and that can make neighbors in other regions feel with some comparative aggravation or feel a little abandoned. I do not know, for example, if we use the unemployment rate as an indicator, we find a paradox, and it is that the low unemployment in Lower Deba has fallen by 3.4% in the first quarter, while the whole of Euskadi has risen by 1.6%. Does that mean you don't need the paper? No, no, Surely yes, that is, it will be necessary and it will be good, no doubt, but, as always, it depends on the indicators on which you set yourself so that the priority is before one another. Of course, according to the diagnosis that has been made in the previous interventions, almost no more papers would be needed, we have already described the situation of the region practically. If we are not really clear on what the objectives are, the presentation will not be very useful either, and that is my second contribution, that is, the presentations should have very clear objectives. We also believe that before we start new presentations, it would be very useful for us to make a preliminary assessment of the outcome of the previous presentations, with a view to correcting the things that may have gone wrong and enhancing those that have worked well, because we have the feeling that previous presentations have failed to achieve the objective of reactivating the regions in which they have focused, and that, over the years, the structural deficits that were seen, are still being maintained. I mean, we think we have to do it, but, I repeat, we think we have to do it right. And by deepening this idea further, from the point of view of the internal functioning of the papers, we also think that we should draw some conclusions. We are finishing, as has already been said, the work of the presentation of the Ayala region which, from my point of view, has taken longer than recommended, and I think it has been due to the number of appearances that have been made. Today we had in report 40 exactly. But my particular feeling, which I have swallowed almost all, is that of the 40's, just half have proved really useful in view of the conclusions we have reached. And it's that the subject of appearances, as has already been said... [[End of tape 59.]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It is that of the 40, just half have proved really useful in view of the conclusions we have reached. And it is that the issue of appearances, as I have already said on one occasion, from my point of view has degenerated substantially, so that what was originally intended only for the Government and officials, has become a gateway of agents, some of them without any representation, and others defending purely partisan interests that make us waste a lot of time and a lot of money on taxpayers. And if the papers are going to be a bureaucratic process, without objectives, without clear criteria and without being clear why some yes and others are not, we could really save ourselves time and money, and directly make development plans, that we all know the things that are more or less needed, because here they have been said, and save ourselves all that time. I think it is now a good opportunity for this issue to regain its objectives and the reasonable dimension it should never have missed in order for the presentation, if it is done, to achieve its objectives within a reasonable time and with conclusions that are effective. And, I repeat, agree to constitute the presentation, but insisting on the need to rationalize the choice of the region and realize it in a professional way, that is, with concrete objectives and with selected appearances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u108	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together the representative of the Podemos Anther, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u109	To agree with the paper, Mr. Gil Vegas seemed to me... Of course, my group, which is not proposing or amending this initiative, is going to defend it, is going to defend the agreement that you have reached. My group, some of the things that have been characterized in this Parliament since we are here with a coalition, is to defend that these kinds of parliamentary tools, these kinds of presentations can be useful; another thing is that the results, then finally, can be more or less like us and can finally be effective or not for what they are pursuing. And on that, I would agree with you. But we are of course always going to be in this kind of initiative. I believe that, in this case, the election of Debabarrena – as on other occasions Ezkerraldea, Oarsoaldea, has been or has been cited here – does not respond to mere whims. I am sure that political parties also have specific interests in bringing them to this Parliament, okay, it is part of the political game, but I think we are talking about regions that have suffered a number of consequences from the crisis, but not just from the crisis of this and the previous one, sharp enough to be taken into account when making such presentations and saying yes to such presentations, at least on the part of our coalition. I, by following the text before us, believe that it does set some goals for the presentation. I see in this text that we are talking about making a profound reflection on the needs of the region of Bajo Deba. We agree. It is true that we could say that it would be insufficient if the only objective was to make that profound reflection, but, well, from what I see, the text that is signed here includes the design of a strategic plan of regional reactivation where we understand – and I, of course, am not going to advance my group's position, although in many matters it is known – but we have talked here about the different areas: employment, industrial policy, economic development, infrastructure and transport, urbanism and also, of course, distribution, redistribution of wealth. We are therefore going to vote in favour of this compromise amendment which you have reached. And I would like to add just two brief reflections to the thread of the presentation made by Mrs Gallástegui by the Socialist Party. It seemed to me to understand that it has made a criticism of an unbalanced model of our autonomous community, and it has also placed, I believe, a lot of emphasis on the role that capitals play there. Another group has also discussed this issue. We agree. And already, I note this with which the momentum, in this case in Debabarrena, has to be made not only from the municipalities of this region, but from – and you have quoted it as literally "from the institutions above municipal" – where I believe that you are part of the governments of all, from the Gipuzkoa Diputation, the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, and also in this case from the capital of the historical territory Donostia, from where we also believe that the model that you also seem to have criticized is being promoted. I say this in a way of reflection, because it did seem to me to be an important consideration. We will vote in favour of this initiative and work to ensure that this presentation can come to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u110	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euskal Socialists during responses. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u111	Yes, thank you, President. I did not intend to intervene in this second part of the debate, but, if I may, I will first take the opportunity to greet the mayors of the municipalities of Debabarrena, who are here, who did not know that they were, it is a pleasure to greet you, and to make some clarification or communication in response to what has been said. Well, just tell Mr Gil that I actually believe that the question is not why other regions, but why this, and the fact is that if you have been asked to make a presentation, you have also raised the agreement of all the... [[60th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 61.]] ... other regions, but why this one. And the fact is that if you have been asked to make a presentation, which has also raised the agreement of all the parliamentary groups, it is because you need it, and because you need it because there is data, there are indicators, you just have to look for them, right? Among other things, the paper is also going to analyse these data. The core of the Socialist Group's intervention in this initiative has been to tell the parliamentary groups what the situation is, based on data that I can give you now. For example, you already know that the effects of the crisis from 2008 to 2014 in Debabarrena began to be noticed, they began to be noticed later, in 2009, and that also delayed the recovery period, because until 2017 it did not start that recovery, which has been improving until the pandemic has arrived. There are data that are enlightening, for example, during these years 2009, 2017 have disappeared 57 industrial companies that have a contribution account, i.e. wage earners. This represents 9.39 % of the industrial fabric, which means the destruction of employment; it has meant the disappearance of 120 companies covid since December 2019, a reduction of more than 22 % over a period of 15 months, that is, a fifth of our industrial enterprises. This in total, added up since 2009, means that almost 190 companies have been lost, which means a reduction of 31%. There are data. There's data. Then, if you go to statistical data on demography, you will also see, that is, no, the question is not why others are not asked, they will also be made or set up according to what the parliamentary groups think appropriate. But the truth is, the question is, is it necessary? Yes, and this has been decided by the entire parliamentary arc. To Mr Hernandez, tell him that I agree with you, I agree fully with you. As I said to Mr. Gil, this is neither the result of chance nor a whim "it is that I like this more than that, because, in the end, Debabarrena suits me". No, that's not the point. And then, indeed, the objectives of the presentation, Mr Gil, are clearly set out in the third paragraph, which is where it is stated that a presentation will be made. In this presentation the Local Development Agency – specifically Debabarrena – with the rest of the actors that can be companies, etc., will participate, make a study and will be the plans, whatever plan, to get out of this situation. I have put on the table the finding of a fact, and it is indeed, Mr Hernández, that polarisation in the capitals harms the regions that are in a situation like ours, but the truth is that that too can be an opportunity, and that is what it is about, to seek opportunities, because the fact that we are in a place that is co-occentric, let us say, equidistantly to the three capitals, as the representative of the PNV, Mrs Berasaluze, said, may be the subject of problems, but also the subject of opportunity. And now it is up to us only to do the work we have to do and where there are problems, to take advantage of, to take advantage of, to make of the need for virtue, to take out opportunities and to succeed in substantially improving the situation in this region, in our region of Debabarrena, which is, in short, what we are here for and are doing this debate today. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u113	Thank you. Very short. I wasn't going to use the second round, and I don't intend to prolong this long-distance meeting, either, but I don't intend to keep an answer to those who Mr. Gil said. Well, I need to thank you for your support, because you said that your team will have a favourable position. But you doubted the results of the prescriptions that have hitherto been made. And now, from the beginning, you've put a little on it, I don't know, like the result that it will fail. And when you said, "How they're picking up the country to bring them here," I said, we've been thinking deeply about the situation of our country with a lot of local organizations. Perhaps, since we are Mrs. Galástegui and my case are local, it may be one of the differences we have with you, because we know the situation of our country directly. But, I said, we've already shared the diagnosis that can be made on that level. And we have seen it necessary to bring us to this table also a reflection of the state of our country. And with a clear purpose: We want improvements. We want something for our region, to stop and raise that depression that has been going on for years. And that's our goal. And this does not mean that the state of other regions is not to be considered here, as has hitherto been done. We represent the people here, well, we have all freedom here, or we have any initiative that our groups understand. And you can do it as we do. And besides sharing with other operators, we've examined several and several data. And, well, there's also the Office of Regional Security here. And, to be honest, well, he's done a lot of hard work. And from these works we have brought many signs of evidence. And these indicators, actually, don't offer a very nice photo. And we've also established the proposal we've brought here today... [[End of tape 61]] [[Start of tape 62]] ... and these indicators, in fact, do not offer a very pretty photograph, and we have also founded the proposition which we have brought here today. The object, therefore, is to strengthen the region, to make a really definite plan after this reflection, and that this plan should have a precise action in order to give our country that impulse which it requires, and to recover it at a time. And we are on the side of a balanced development of territory, and I agree with the reflection which has been made, because there is something going on; because it is concentrated around the capitals, and this has also its consequences far from these capitals, especially for the distant regions. And what we want is that these regions should also be their rank, their good quality of life, and we believe that this power which we are about to set up here today will serve for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Mr. Irriart, representative of EH Collect, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u115	No one here intends to answer, but everyone answers. So I won't be less. I am glad to hear of certain matters, and how those poles which are produced by cities and cities are weakened by the whole region, or at least by the greater number of them. To agree here, and above all to listen to the two aspects that support the government, which means that we will make the means. We, of course, protect this power, bringing here these powers and these local development ideas that the Basque Country was the first to assemble. We have missed Mrs. Gallarástegui and Mrs. Beragon, not to come here on behalf of all the agents who are present in the development agency and the political table, but, well, we've agreed to it and a half evil. But, well, the forms are worth it, and it would have been better if it had come more differently from the region. For the next time. On the other hand, what we're saying is that the cities are concentrated and the countries are emptying, which is not natural like rain, there are decisions in which there are some political issues behind it. And what this political country's doing is off balance, they're off balance, and they're concentrated in cities and the countries are fading away. If there's anything in the muscles, it's been a matter of historical balance, because they have a personal personality in the country and they worked it out. And this is getting better and they're getting weaker, so let's be aware. The reasons why the regions should be emptied and emptied are, in a great measure, political; they are not natural, and we must face them also. From this power there will be different consequences, different presustacious games, but if we don't have the foundation to make fun and fun of the region for economic development and its economic economy, its pyms and micropyme are the importance of our productive base and we won't solve the role of the development agency. What's going to happen, a few rounds will come, a few plans will come, but it'll continue to blow away the blood, because more of the riots that are taken higher and more than the city's, and the measures that are taken from the town, and the cities that are above the town, will continue to strengthen them and clear the countries. So here measures must be taken from different points of view. And, on the other hand, what pleases me is that we agree to the necessity of knowing the state of the regions. It's at the Debar, no one's arguing about the need for the Decares, but we think it's important, as Mr. Gil said, to put the state of the countries on the table today. For we believe that the provinces will play the essential part and play it, because they have worked for years. The development agency created them from the 90s crisis, which was necessarily founded by councils. They made answers because no one gave them answers to the questions of unemployment which were in the country. It's been proven for years what kind of work they do with very little resource. It's time they'd consider it themselves. I'd like to bring a project here. Between 2008 and 2011, Gipuzian Fundal Foru pushed the Gipuese forward. In it, the Gipulia Forddia, Adegi, the House of Commerce, the Ark, Mondragon, and the City of Donostania. From 2011 the Gipulia Network projected. A different type of government, much more horizontal, much more networked, the development agency, the university, the research centers, the aldudias, and all managed by Orkestra. The more difficult is the process that sometimes slows down, but it is a far more difficult process for people in the same country, who aren't infested from the top. It is therefore necessary that this power should also give us a way. And apart from the Debary, and apart from the introduction of the Decabarians to the North, this committee must also be a focus to help and encourage the Regions in general to face the great and secondary circumstances, and to search for commercial solutions. So let's get to work and get on with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u116	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Popular-Ciudados must not speak. Together, Podemos, Hernandez... [[End of tape 62]] [[Start of tape 63]] ... End of discussion, we'll vote for the Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and Eubertarian corrections signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 70; the votes given, 72; the opponents 72; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u117	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Provide the other proposal as the parliamentary team has made, to stop the jurisdiction of the Civil Guard and of the Spanish Police and to suspend their retreat. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Arzuga, representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everybody. Gaur ekartzen dugun initiatiba ez da, berez, EH Bildurena. Izan ere, Gobernuak berak bullzatu of the Euskadiko Segurtasun Publikoaren Plan Orokorra 2020-2025ean. 63. Orialdean, agertzen says: "Threats. Skewed interpretations of the Basque competitive framework. A repositioning of the State Security Forces and Corpses is taking place in Euskadi, which seeks to have visibility, focusing on certain niches, on the basis of a partial interpretation of the Organic Law on Security Forces and Corpses, which does not take into account the general provisions of the law itself with regard to the competences that Article 17 of the Statute of Autonomy confers on the administrations of Euskadi in matters such as citizen security, traffic or emergencies." Repositioning of the State Security Forces and Corpses, entering certain niches, in relation to competencies. Hau, nolabait, nik you had eskumenen in its base. It's true that this report was made by a private company, the LKSNext Company, the director of the present Arkautics, and I understand that PNV and PSE are protecting what appears in this report. When he appeared to us, I asked Mr. Erkoa twice on the committee to explain the cause of this threat, and the depth of this threat, where these invasions were, and what he would do in front of it. And I made no answer. I don't even know why he hasn't been published recently from the Autogoberon Department in the "Silent Higate." In fact, it's about public security, and I think, I think, that this was a threat, in a way, to appear there. A threat, as I say, in the safety of the community, traffic, emergency, and I would add that it's environmental. And it's not because I'm talking about it, but in the editorial memory, in the report of the Attorney General, there's an accusation against the dysfunctions of the Edge Environmental Unit. And the result of this dysfunction, this space left by the Civil Guard's Seduction, in some way invades this competition, and takes it upon itself. And I think it's a shame, it's shameful, that the local cologists should have to appeal to the Civil Guard, because the edge isn't capable of it, because he has no ability to investigate the crimes of environments as required, and to pursue the authors in the proper manner. My colleague Michael Oterra, my colleague, has asked for the appearance of the head of the border at the Environment Committee, where he will be able to examine this point. I want to focus on this initiative, the Civil Guard and the National Police activity in traffic and security of the security of the security of the security people, that is to say, the controls on the roads. We know the Civil Guard on our roads. We know the impact of this one. We have suffered their disproportion, pride, prepotence, superiority, military conduct. We have felt fear, and have also known the wounds and the dead who have been wounded by them. Undoubtedly the surrender and the victims who deserve attention. But we must take measures to prevent this from happening again, never again. We don't want them on our roads, and I think we don't need them. According to the latest data, in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia there are 2,917 national police and civilian guards, and no one is able to verify why. The presence of State security forces is absolutely unnecessary and arbitrary. It is also rejected by a large part, by a large majority of Basque society, which, moreover, through quotas, is obliged to pay the invoice. Today, under what competitive title do they act? What service do they provide to citizens? For what? These are questions we should ask. I have my own theory of why they remain in this country after a situation of political conflict, and I think they remain cantoned, this presence is maintained not because they provide no solution in terms of security, but to impose and settle a concrete story, a story of the past. The maintenance of roadside controls by the State Security Forces is a perversion of its powers. I am not going to read Article 17 of the Statute, in which it is laid down. But, in addition to being a perversion of competencies, communication to the Department of these controls is mandatory, something that is not being fulfilled... [[End of tape 63]] [[Start of tape 64]] ... But, in addition to being a perversion of competencies, communication to the Department of these controls is mandatory, something that is not being fulfilled. We are constantly being hidden from data, we are being hidden from how many controls, where and why. I have asked the Department of Data about it year after year, because I wanted to do a statistic, and this would be the graph that I got with the data that I have been offered and I also have to point out with those that have not been offered. In 2015, 3,214 road checks; in 2016, 1,928, a significant decrease; in 2017, 1,751; again down to 1,650 in 2018. But suddenly, in 2019 we see that they fall to 18 in the first semester, right, I asked for data from the first semester. In 2020, I ask for the remaining data, that is, the year and a half between the middle and I am only given the data for the second half of 2020, that is, 59 road checks. A mistake I thought. Therefore, I asked again about the other two semesters and they tell me from the Department that they are not going to give it to me, that they have already answered me. It's not like that. I ask the Amparo Bureau and again I am denied this data, therefore, two censored semesters, because actually getting data from the Department is often a real fight. Get to the point. From 2018 to 2019 in police control, though of a sementre, it was only six months old. But people told us that this was impossible because this didn't agree with reality, because people saw the Civil Guard over and over on our roads. So to prove that the department recognizes controls properly, we asked for information about three controls we detected. One in Tollosa-Villabon, Gipuzah, the other in Guernica-Muxhika, Bizka, and the third in Arsa, Aran. I asked the department about the controls set by the Civil Guard, and the edge didn't notice. What I'm going to do: are these data, these numbers, reliable? No, they're profoundly inaccurate and incorrect. These data are mainly based on two concepts. One: the controls that the Ministry of the Interior communicates to the Department, and others that Ertzaintza itself detects without being communicated, which are approximately half. And we should add, as I say, the controls that the Department does not detect, does not control. Mr Erkoreka replied: "I have transferred to the highest level of responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior the obligation of the State Security Forces and Bodies to communicate to those responsible for Ertzaintza the relationship of these kinds of controls". The Ministry, the Plant Government, keeps records from the Basque Munch. which is to say, they are made without notice, and without any conveniency of title, to make them do it, without any certain jurisdiction. These controls are, in a way, illegal, or, if you like, clandestine; or if you'll excuse me for a game of words, the controls on the road are out of control at these hours. They consider it as a threat to the general plan, and on the 17th of June there was the Security Committee, but the Security Department replied that this threat had not been brought to it in a written question. And I don't really understand why they didn't take advantage of this threat to treat it. The question here is whether the border has control over its territory, whether it has control over the territory. The question here is whether the border has complete right and effective jurisdiction over the safety of the people. Is a police officer inIntegral who can't stand his rights anymore? Is this an Integral cop who can't control his territory? There have been several decisions on this issue in this Parliament, we have given this debate several times and I want to explain in the last few minutes what the sequence of decisions has been. In 2003, the PNV signed with us a request for the withdrawal of the Civil Guard and the National Police. Good. Subsequently, in 2017, he abandoned this position to request, together with the PSE, its suitability for its strict competition. Today they come back with this position which will finally be voted on. They don't change the claim, but I do understand that circumstances change. Then, in 2017, the PP ruled. The PSOE had no responsibility for what it was deciding, it was not in its hands to put it into practice, it was in a way, a toast to the sun, but today it is, I think, with this decision the PSOE will have the obligation to take steps and the ability to fulfill it. This initiative will be directly on Mr Itxaso's table today and on Mr Marlaska's table. And that's fine with us. We will not oppose, moreover, we will be demanding to verify that it is fulfilled. He said there were 2,917 civilian guards and national police in the Basque Autonomous Community. With this claim, which is finally going to be approved today in line with its strict competition, i.e. customs, ports, airports and little more, 90% of the current Civil Guard and National Police personnel should leave. Almost all barracks and police stations in this country should be closed down and, of course, we should not suffer again on our roads. And it's not bad. And perhaps you, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PSE, think enough, but not us. We will continue to demand the withdrawal, the full withdrawal of the State Security Forces until the last barracks are closed... [[End of tape 64]] [[Start of tape 65]] ... But not us. We will continue to demand the withdrawal, the full withdrawal of the State Security Forces, until the last barracks are closed, until the last police station in this town is closed, until the last civilian guard and national police personnel leave this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u119	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u120	Thank you, Madam President. The delicate subject that we bring here today. In order to ensure that data is not hidden, I will take stock of the actions in Euskadi of the Civil Guard and the National Police only last year 2020. The State Security Forces and Corps seized about five tons of narcotics of different types in the Basque Country and dismantled 13 illegal marijuana plantations. To the State Security Forces and Bodies we owe the release of 36 people, most of them women and girls, victims of trafficking networks, the disarticulation of two jihadist cells and 21 organized criminal gangs. The Civil Guard arrested the age-old Miren Itxaso Zaldua, involved in the murder of the president of the PP of Aragon, Manuel Jiménez Abad, something that surely did not like the proponent group of the initiative that we discussed here, as I understand that neither did they like to locate a zule of ETA in Álava. In addition, its investigations into illicit arms trafficking made it possible to seize 49 short weapons, nine long weapons, five sub-fusiles, two machine guns, abundant ammunition and two mortar shells. In its functions as a State fiscal guard at the airport customs compound, the Civil Guard lifted 404 arrest warrants, seizing a total of more than 5,000 tobacco cases, more than 500 kilograms of meat and milk products, 78 kilograms of pharmaceutical and cosmetic products, a ton of seeds, plants and plant products, dozens of objects, figures and animal parts, and more than 1,500 items of clothing, footwear, leather goods or illegal telephone material. In its work of surveillance of Coasts and Maritime Rescue, the Civil Guard last year carried out 474 inspections of recreational and professional boats, in which a total of 144 irregularities were detected on the misuse of boats, titlings, professional and recreational fishing and the Ports Act. And, in case it wasn't enough, the Civil Guard ensured security in 36 sports trials, towed 25 boats helping their occupants and participating in nine searches for missing persons at sea. For all of this, can anyone ever think that the State Security Forces and Bodies pose a threat to public security, as the Security Adviser has dared to translate into the Euskadi 2020-2025 General Public Security Plan? What a dare. By the way, it is logical for the Civil Guard to carry out anti-drug controls on roads without warning, I repeat, anti-drug controls, which are not traffic controls, you are confused, of course, protected in the fight against drug trafficking, which is indeed the competence of the Civil Guard. I know that the PNV is going to resist recognizing something good in the service that the Armed Institute provides and has provided in Euskadi. I know you will never be able to recognize your role and sacrifice in the fight against ETA terrorism. But it doesn't matter, because the data I've just reviewed, besides very briefly, speak for themselves, and only talk about what was done in a year of pandemic, in 2020. In Vox we are clear that many people here in this Parliament have more than enough reason to congratulate the State Security Forces and Bodies for their work in the Basque Country and in the rest of Spain, which guarantees the rights and freedoms of people regardless of race, sex, belief or origin. I have no doubt that EH Bildu, Sortu, in presenting this initiative moves their grudge at the impact that police action played on ETA's defeat. Gentlemen, we do want them and we do need them. The Civil Guard and National Police played a key role in the fight against terrorism. From here we say to the government that Vox wants to support the collaboration and coordination between State Security Forces and Bodies, Ertzaintza and Municipal Police, and not exclusion and isolation that is what you are doing to them right now, take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u121	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u122	President, ladies and gentlemen. This is an initiative that has the date in May, at the beginning of May, and it is important to retain the date because later some very interesting facts have happened that I will also report later. So far Mr Arzuaga asked Mr Erkoreka for controls, he said that "the Civil Guard controls involve a demonstration of violence and a persecution of the citizenry." In this GNP, there had certainly been much more care for the terms and spoke of "controls without cause", "without motivation", "of other times", "without communication". It called for compliance with the law, for a competitive invasion report to be made, for the Basque police to regain jurisdiction, and for the State Security Forces and Bodies to comply with their jurisdiction. And the truth is that when the law thought "Arzuaga has changed", I thought that that legalist, autonomous and respectful tone with the functions of the police represented something. Certainly, we were faced with a trap, because what you have been explaining here in your speech is far from that tone. He said the National Police and the Civil Guard act disproportionately... [[End of tape 65]] [[beginning of tape 66.]] ...explaining here in his speech far from that tone. He said that the National Police and the Civil Guard act disproportionately, chulesque, with militaristic prepotence, that we do not want them on our roads, that we do not need them, that most Basque society rejects this Police. He asked what services they provide and for what and that they are not for safety, but for settling a story about the past. And then with that fine style that characterizes him in terms of how he expresses things, moreover, he has already finished us by saying how much police was needed, which comes to be..., and how much Civil Guard, which comes to be 10% of the current one, although in his pretension there is absolutely (?)). We know what your political position is. Certainly, it has changed very little. It is overly anchored in the past, but it allows us in this repetition of this derby, this is like the classic Alavés Athletic matches, because every year it appears, it has to appear, and well, it was admitted, but it gives us the opportunity to talk about skills and security, and it seems to me very good that we talk about skills and security. Look, the Civil Guard has arms and explosives control, coast and border surveillance, port and airport surveillance, state prosecutor's protection, counter-terrorism, supra-community police investigations into organized crime, anti-drug operations, human trafficking, child pornography, thefts, scams, kidnappings. The National Police has competence in foreign affairs, in the processing of documents, in the control of persons without borders, in trafficking in human beings, in documentary falsifications, in the processing of identity documents, passports and in the verification of identities. In the Judicial Police it also has tasks in organized crime, anti-drug operations, documentary falsity, fraud, child pornography, anti-terrorist struggle. Well, it seems that because of the skills and functions of the National Police and the Civil Guard it is reasonable to think that they have to do jobs in the offices, that they have to do research jobs in the laboratories and that they also have to do jobs on the street; therefore, I believe that the tasks they carry out, obviously, are appropriate to the competencies they have established. I am not going to say what the results have been in all these fields all this time, because they have already been expressed here as the data recently expressed by the government delegate in the Basque Country, therefore, have already been given. But will I add that in addition to all these results in the fight against organized crime, against crime and in defence of the security of citizens, in the time of the pandemic has also been worked in a coordinated way among all the State Security Forces and Bodies, work has been done with the Ertzaintza, with the municipal police through the Operational Coordination Centre, and it must be said that many meetings and very much coordination have been held, and I would dare to say why the advisor also dares to say this, that relations are at a fairly reasonable time, quite good, with important progress that was made after you, not as a result of what you did, but after you registered this initiative, because indeed on June 18 there was a Security Board and on that Security Board the collaboration of the Basque Police with the Interior Council, with the corresponding ministry, made a rosary of very interesting agreements that further strengthen the integral police character of the Ertzaintza, and that range from commitments on the subject of machoist violence to the connection of the databases? to strengthen the protection of victims, access to information by Ertzaintza, international bodies such as Europol and Interpol, to specific competences on the flight of drones, so effective also for security. There were environmental agreements for strengthening competencies and coordination with the rest of the forces; there were agreements on cybercrime by incorporating Ertzaintza into the strategic plan. That is, as can be seen, the Security Board of 18 June was a productive Security Board, with friendly relations, where it went a long way, where it was thus meant by both parties after that meeting, and therefore, it falls, it completely falls all the argumentation, if you can call it argumentation, that I would say animating, that you have done in your account in your speech. I say that among police officers... I say that among police officers there is good communication, that he has never stopped working on the Standing Committee on Cooperation, even though he has not had as many meetings of the Security Board as he probably should have had, but that there has been such coordination. That there are joint lines of work to improve the public security service for citizens, and that work is also being done in line with the European Union's proposals with the agreements, with part of the agreements, which I have already reported. It is clear, from the data that have also been placed on the table and that recently the government delegate in Euskadi explained, Euskadi is not exempt from crime, is not exempt from violent actions, terrorists, smugglers, international terrorism, and therefore, it seems that in Euskadi at the moment the sum of police is a positive sum that goes in support and aid to citizen security, which, by the way, citizen security is also one of those public services that citizens themselves value very positively along with other services of which many times... [[End of tape 66.]] [[LXIX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of these public services that citizens themselves value very positively, along with other services that we often talk about because they are more friendly or because they have another type of contribution to citizens. But, without any doubt, the same as rights are worth what their guarantees, rights and guarantees are worth what is also worth security and, therefore, security is a fundamental pillar of the very well-being and essential public services that are provided to citizens. Therefore, Mr Arzuaga, what you propose in your initiative does not make much sense. It is true that we have had a political position for a number of years now, which is clear and that we reaffirm it with the whole amendment that we have tabled. It is true that we want good cooperation among the police. We defend, as it cannot be otherwise, because we are also involved, self-government, governance and, therefore, the development of the competences that such governance implies, we are absolutely identified and working on that orientation, as I say, as it cannot be otherwise, and of course we want there to be competition and that the State Security Forces and Bodies, that the National Police and that the Civil Guard, in order to be more explicit, in order to their competences, have their forces. And of course this will be determined by the collaboration, by the cooperation of both Governments, by the resolution of the Security Board and those bilateral relations and, of course, by the good of Basque society and of humanity as a whole, we will not leave it in their hands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u123	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the First Vice President, the congressman, good afternoon. Today, again, the National Police and Civil Guard are discussing investments in the exclusive rights of the Border. For more than once they have brought this matter to the legislature. The truth is that if we debate again today about the competitive invasion that, on the part of the National Police and the Civil Guard, are being carried out in front of the competences own and exclusive of the Ertzaintza, it is because we find a reality that is only a certain resistance on the part of both bodies to withdraw effective and refer to their strict tasks entrusted by the current legal framework. It remains pending, in our view, to order the work of the National Police and the Civil Guard in the Basque Autonomous Community. And unfortunately, if it is not properly ordered, we are very much afraid that this issue will again be discussed here, hopefully not. The National Police and the Civil Guard, despite the disappearance of ETA, have not reduced their role to what the Statute of Gernika should be. Even though the National Police and the Civil Guard are gone, their business is not limited to the State of Guernica. And, in this regard, we can consider it a further breach of our Statute. An organic law that remains pending development and compliance in several of its contents. Today, on the anniversary of the formation of the first Basque Government in 1936, 85 years ago, we are again demanding that the law be complied with, in this case, that the Statute of Gernika adopted 42 years ago be complied with and that the integral character of the Ertzaintza be respected. So we are again demanding that the law be fulfilled, the state of Guernica, and the respect for the nature of the Integrate Police. As I told you, since the end of ETA, the National Police and the Civil Guard have carried out an exercise of relocation of their work in Euskadi, in our opinion invading the competences of the Ertzaintza that justify, on the basis of certain biased interpretations, in our opinion, the Basque competition framework by these Forces and Security Bodies in Euskadi. As the proposer points out, this statement is reflected in the Euskadi 2020-2025 General Public Security Plan. From the Euzko Abertzaleak group we are very clear that the area in which these kinds of issues need to be resolved is the Security Board of the Basque Country. Any jurisdictional transgressions of the State Security Forces and Bodies must be resolved through the articulated coordination instruments and mechanisms, respecting the division of jurisdiction by establishing in article 17 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country and the agreements on the delimitation of services, and the State Security Forces and Bodies must be brought into line with their strict competence. And, as I told you, the body where competition differences must be resolved is the Security Board. In this regard, we must point out that there has been some standardization in this area between the relations between our Government and the Ministry of the Interior, following the meeting of the Security Board last June. It has been, as Mr Prieto pointed out, an important meeting because of the content of the issues addressed, because of the agreements reached and because we cannot forget that this body did not meet since 2017. Too long without meeting the Security Board. Let us hope that we are faced with a new stage that is marked by joint work, dialogue and agreements on an issue as important as public security. Mr. Prieto mentioned some of the agreements reached after the meeting of the Security Board. Interconnection of the VioGen and EVA programmes to share data of women victims of sexist violence, to strengthen their protection and facilitate their safe mobility; Ertzaintza access to information and Europol files, (...) and Interpol; agreement to strengthen cooperation in the international, cybercrime and environment fields. This is and must be the way that, in our opinion,... [[End of tape 67]] [[68. Start of tape]] ... agreement to strengthen cooperation in international areas, the fields of cybercrime and the environment. This is, and should be, the path that, in our view, we must continue without renouncing even one of the competences that belongs to Ertzaintza as an integral police force, to be able to solve those problems that arise from dialogue and agreement. Without denying any of the privileges belonging to the border as an integral police officer, the issue may be solved by conversation and agreement. This is our way. We are convinced, as I told you, that from institutional dialogue and respect it will be possible to put an end to competitive invasion and the relocation of functions. We have amended the non-law proposal of the Euskal Herria Bildu group for several reasons. We share with the proponent that this competitive invasion must cease, but it is clear that any differences must be resolved within the framework of the Security Board. And besides rejecting, we have to fix, we have to solve, we have to use the appropriate channels, which now seem to be open again, to solve the problems. For the same reason we do not envisage the elaboration of the diagnostic report proposed by the group Euskal Herria Bildu. Finally, the last point in our joint amendment by the Socialist Group calls on the Spanish Government to bring the State Security Forces and Corpses into line with the strict scope of its powers. Our intention is to make this adaptation of factors according to the work we have to do, and to make it as quick as possible. Once again, we're asking for commitment from our team, commitment to the Border, as an integral police officer, as a police officer. Again, we are asking for commitment, commitment to Ertzaintza as an integral police, commitment to Ertzaintza as an own police. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u125	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing the district that hasn't issued any corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u126	Thank you, President, again. Lehendakari, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Nothing new with this Bildu initiative, nothing new. The other day he spoke of solutions, of the usefulness of initiatives, so nothing new, Mr Arzuaga, in relation to his position and his animateness. Of course, the expression of the "let them go", of the "alde hemendik", now in PNL version, of your group, of the left abertzale in this Parliament, known to you the obsessive hatred and the animosity that exists in your group, now disguised also of this formula of "competition invasion". Well, then, Mr. Arzuaga's theories we already know. Look, the Civil Guard and the National Police have been here a long time, they were already here when the Ertzaintza was created, and that is why they were here and because they were doing their duties, and Article 17 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country was rightly agreed upon. And we understand that basically it is fulfilled, basically it is fulfilled, it is fulfilled, and there have been no great elements that say otherwise in relation to what is presented to us. No, no. Basically, article 17 of the Statute of Autonomy is complied with. We understand that the Civil Guard and the National Police have not invaded, have not broken in because they were, and are maintained, and will be maintained, because it is said by the powers that the laws have, by the constitutional powers, by the legal powers that they have under article 17 of the Statute of Autonomy, but by other statutes that regulate the State Security Forces and Bodies. The other day, I was wondering, Your Honor, about the solutions proposed by an initiative adopted in this Parliament to condemn violent acts and to support both the Ertzaintza and the Municipal Police. Today we see that, he sees courage and that he sees solutions to this initiative of hiss, that he does not, as always, stop trying to sow confusion and that what he seeks is discredit, as he has already said with his qualifications, to the Forces and Bodies of State Security, which seek only the discredit of those who do a good job, a magnificent job and have done it in our society. There may be some questionable issue either administratively or regulatoryly. Well, that always happens. There are areas of dialogue and collaboration, as in so many other issues of public life, where administrations of various signs are affected: local, municipal, state, outside, but there are areas of agreement and areas that work. I support the statement that Mr Prieto has also made in explanation of the current situation. But, Mr. Arzuaga, and I suppose that's what bothers you the most, because you know it, there are many Basques that we need the Civil Guard and the National Police and that we love them, and that's what bothers you the most, that you know that there are many Basques that we recognize, that we love them and that we need them between us. Because look, now the subject of competitive invasion comes out as a mantra. We have to go to the meaning of invasion that the Royal Academy has. It has different meanings. Breaking in, no, breaking in. There are a number of protocols, laws, article 17 of the Statute, the laws of State Security Forces and Bodies that allow and establish their visions here, aren't there? Break in, so don't break in. Getting in by force, either. Occupy abnormally or irregularly a (...), no, because they have those laws that we talk about, sometimes there may be some shade or some question, but they have those laws that regulate it and those areas of action. Entering and propagating in a given place or medium... [[68. End of tape]] [[Start of tape 69.]] ... There may be some nuance or question, but they have those laws that regulate it and those areas of action. Enter and propagate in a given place or medium, enter unjustifiably into other functions, no, no, no, in own functions, own functions. So there is no (?)Invasion, there is not in the terms that there is because there is submission and there are laws that work. And what there has been, and what we do understand is something else, there has been collaboration and we see that there is and what there has to be and what we of course understand that there is basically, basically in what is the security of this country, exemplaryly carried out and led by the Ertzaintza, but also where the National Police and the Civil Guard have their important constitutional functions to fulfil. And of course, in addition to Law 2/86 on Security Forces and Bodies, which includes the tasks of the Civil Guard, the National Police, is the Statute of Autonomy. Of course, he said, the article (?)17, for it must also be said, what the Statute says, through the process of updating the foral regime provided for in the first additional provision of the Constitution will be the responsibility of the institutions of the Basque Country in order to end in this Statute the regime of the Autonomous Police for the protection of persons, the maintenance of public order within the territory, being reserved to the State Security Forces the police services of an extra-Community and supra-Community character the surveillance of ports, airports, coasts, borders, customs, control of entry, exit into national territory of Spaniards and foreigners, general regime of alienation, extradition and expulsion, emigration and immigration, passports and National Document of Identity, weapons and explosives, fiscal safeguard of the State, contrabanding, tax fraud of the State. That is to say, there is a very important area of action here that we have to feel safe and that we feel safe with its action, because if we were not at all. And it is clear that well, it also talks about coordination and we have already been told about that and other cases in which bodies and forces can intervene in other more exceptional and planned and regulated ways. That is to say, Mr Arzuaga, I think the thing is right, it has worked satisfactorily, and of course, it has done well, it has done very well and it has done so in clear areas. You protest the controls and ask the counselor the controls. If there are controls or other actions, it is because they have an area of action that allows such controls to be carried out, that is, clear areas of action, as has already been said, drugs, organized crime, trafficking in persons, ecological crimes, evasion of capital, mafia, various traffickers, smuggling, judicial police, is that there is a lot of scope. Judges can commission missions to these police forces and are in fact assigned to them. We have talked about supra-Community, extra-Community issues that affect our daily lives and the criminals that pass through here. That is to say, in that sense, I believe that we need to focus on the issue, on the issues, and we need to try to find solutions and hope that this is what we find in the way of collaboration. Speaking of collaboration, is that you would be surprised, that you will not like, the degree of close collaboration, and for the good of all that exists between the Ertzaintza, the local police and the State Security Corps, is that they are commenting, commenting on each other, to us, at least, tell us and make it clear. We have recently seen joint action on drug trafficking. Well, that's what it really is, what it is day to day for the benefit of this society, and to undo that collaboration that exists, that there is, in fact, sometimes the same is not fully known, but that there is, in fact, as you claim it would be to the detriment of our security, and we want to be sure and we need to be sure of Ertzaintza, of course, our municipal police officers and the State Security Forces and Bodies in compliance with their law that regulates it and in compliance with article 17 of the Statute of Autonomy that is very clear. I mean, they're gone and we don't love them and they're gone... Well, these are the solutions that Mr Arzuaga always proposes, that the PNV also proposes from time to time and that... In short, that the laws are not enforced. To make a political speech of which they go again in a GNP for internal consumption for the satisfaction of the parish of Abertzale, that is, radical, to reflect in a parliamentary initiative issues that have nothing to do with reality and with the various proclamations. And what I do want to do, of course, is to take advantage of this opportunity that you give me is a tribute, a tribute to the Civil Guard and the National Police for their work, for their work on this earth, for their heroic work, commendable in relation to the defense of people's lives, the disarticulation of terrorism and also for other works that have to do with us, with the Basques. Thousands of Basques have been saved in critical situations by the Civil Guard here in the Basque Country, but also in the Pyrenees or the Peaks of Europe, the Basque coasts, Spanish, have been many young people and women, men who owe their lives to the Civil Guard, many, many, many, and not to mention men and women who owe their lives to the Civil Guard and who are sitting here and who are not exactly mountaineers Mr Arzuaga. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u127	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemus, representative of the Antzel Group, Mr. Angulo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President, good afternoon to you all. The initiative that EH Bildu registered on 21 May this year and presented today in plenary was already contemplated at the Security Board of the Basque Country, since it was the object of this board to clarify the competences and define the areas of action between the Civil Guard and the Ertzaintza in Basque. In fact, the full amendment tabled by the PNV and PSOE parliamentary groups is aimed at continuing the meetings of this Security Board and at further clarifying the competition differences and the framework for action of the Seprona and Ertzaintza. We hope that in the future the representative of the PNV and the parties supporting the Government will be able to tell us whether there are more dates for this board, as well as provide us with transparent and up-to-date information on the issues being dealt with in it, as well as in the agreements... [[End of tape 69]] [[Beginning of tape 70.]] ... indicate whether there are more dates for this board, as well as provide us with transparent and up-to-date information on what measures are being addressed, as well as any agreements being made. For what is involved, among other things, is whether Ertzaintza will be able to have capacity and personal, and the means to investigate and prosecute environmental crimes in Euskadi, in the same way as Seprona does. And it is that at the moment the green unit of the Ertzaintza has only 10 troops and, from our parliamentary group, we believe that there is a complete lack of means to investigate this type of crime. In addition, there is also a decoordination that Ararteko himself has already denounced. Despite the fact that the time that has passed there are still major mismatches and lack of clarity in the area of competition between Ertzaintza and Seprona. But there is also this mismatch between the forestry agents of hunting and fishing, of rivers, of mountains, belonging to administrations such as the Basque Government, deputies, Ura or town hall. For example, if today there was a spill in a river and contaminated this river with fish mortality in a protected space, and although protocols have been worked out to get out of the way, it is not clear who would be responsible for investigating it, in which area of administration there would be, for example, a button. Ura has been assigned to collect samples of the dead fish, when in reality this is the responsibility of the hunting and fishing agents of the Diputación. In fact, just a few weeks ago, the Basque Public Prosecutor's Office in its annual report clearly pointed out the existence of dysfunctions in the Ertzaintza, as thanks to the workload of the Zaldibar disaster, it saturated the 10 people in this unit and many crimes that remain unpunished had to be closed. And it is this impunity that causes many judges to remain entrusted to the Civil Guard and the Seprona to investigate environmental crimes, because they know that they have more resources to pursue such offences. We have seen this with the investigations of ammonia discharges in the Zubieta incinerator, in the discharges of the Zadorra River or this December 2020 in the disarticulation of an organization that illegally exported hazardous waste to Africa. These situations make it clear that it is absolutely necessary to rethink the Basque inspection and surveillance system and to provide it with the human and technical resources necessary for this. In the last parliamentary term, from Elkarrekin We can, by oral question, insist on implementing a GNP approved in this same Parliament in 2015 which, in short, urged to develop the structure, resources and formation of an environmental unit in Ertzaintza and to improve coordination with the Prosecutor's Office and the outside and local administrations. In her speech the Councilwoman defended the great work of this unity of Ertzaintza, giving concrete expression to its many formative actions. In other words, the vast majority of the tasks carried out by this unit were the training of third parties. The perspective and time are giving us the reason for the oral question that was asked in the last parliamentary term and in that approved and undeveloped GNP. Now, as then, it seems to us that the answer was not adequate and that in 2021 we continue with the same problems as in 2015 and 2017. Because it seems that investigating environmental crimes is not in the interest of the Administrations, it seems that they listen deafly to the requests of the Prosecutor's Office, the Ararteko and even this very Parliament. From Elkarrekin We have put forward many initiatives in this regard, the last, in the amendments to the Law on the Conservation of Natural Heritage, registered in this same year, in which we again insisted and we have called for the reinforcement of the personnel with competence in inspection, environmental monitoring and improvement of the coordination between the administrations. In 2021, therefore, the debate cannot focus solely on competition issues, but rather on setting up a top-level environmental inspection and monitoring organization to investigate and prosecute the multiple environmental crimes taking place in Euskadi. It is time to start providing more human and technical resources to the Ertzaintza and the other inspectors of the Basque Administration. Then, Euskadi will cease to be the paradise of impunity that is today with regard to environmental crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u129	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Azuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Cuckoo, I agree you've come to an agreement, and you identify that threat, but you don't agree. What Mr Porque Prinet says is that the way must be a collaboration, and you say it was a threat and that it exists. And I don't know what he was talking about at the Security Board, because I asked for an agreement and the answer was that the acts are not gonna be approved at the next meeting. You know what he was talking about, but I know what he didn't talk about, and he didn't talk about the threat you're making here on the general plan. The invasion of competition did not take place in this June Security Committee. Mr. Prieto, okay, he doesn't want me to change anything because everything's been fine, because everything's been fantastic and I'm the one who's suffering from aversion. And maybe it's because I know what's happened and you come out here to give lessons of supposed ethical superiority and I don't know if you want to express yourself today in memory and memory of a 22-year-old Orereta postman, José Antonio Cardosa Morales, and I don't know if you condemn everything, you will also be able to condemn a minister of the interior, a minister of the interior of your party, a minister of the interior who is sheltered under the acronym PSOE, a minister of the interior who sent letters bomb to supporters of Herri Batasuna through the Intxaurrondo Civil Guard. And we knew that, but now we have the observation, because that is what another Minister of the Interior has said. But you prefer to remain silent because you point them directly, and I ask you to give us an explanation... [[End of tape 70]] [[Start of tape 71.]] ... another Minister of the Interior. But you prefer to remain silent because you point him directly, and I ask him to give us an explanation. Because that alleged ethical superiority is under historical minimums, and because Euskal Herria deserves an explanation and deserves the whole truth. Mr. Barrio tells us that all the affection, that they have done everything right, and that they deserve a tribute. Precisely on October 12th I do not doubt that they will be given a tribute, they will be sent messages of honor and praise to the Civil Guard and the National Police, they will treat them as heroes, as winners. Precisely, in contrast to their victims, who are the vanquished, the forgotten, the ones who find themselves with a wall, with an unbreakable wall to try to achieve truth and justice. A tribute, you say, to the perpetrators of very serious human rights violations. Those messages of apologia and exaltation to the services provided, because they have done everything for their homeland. Those messages don't humiliate the victims? Are those messages of exaltation and apologia a support, a contribution to coexistence in this country? Will they echo the pain of these victims in those acts? Today we are talking about roadblocks and their fatal victims. Will there be on October 12 a memory, on the day of race, on the day of Hispanicity, words of consolation, recognition and reparation towards Javier Batarrita, Manuel Andueza, José Díaz, Rafael (...), Jokin Diestre, Mikel Saligei, Emilio Párez, Félicitas María Alexandra? Will there be recognition of Kepa Josu Etxandi, Felipe Suárez, Gonzalo Pequeño, Efrén Torres, José Emilio Fernández, Felipe Carro, Diego Alfaro, Francisco Caballero, Mikel Arregi, for the couple María Ángeles Barandiaran or Victoriano Aguiriano? Hemen, Gamarran, Hildakoak. Urriaren 16 year old 39. Urteurrena hildakoak izan zirela policeren errepide-kontrol batan. Edo Marcelo Gartziandia, Juan Luis López de Turiso, María Jesús Amigot. Dead on the highways, none of them was a member. And if the Civil Guard and the National Police have tortured them, will all the citizens of Esscals who murdered them be remembered in those acts of October on the 12th? Is there going to be a script? Will the past be a critical view? Will you settle everything? We know the answer, and we know that hypocrisy prevails. That's why we're demanding the Civil Guard and the National Police retreat. And that's all we're worth.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u131	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u132	Speaking of hypocrisy, Mr Arzuaga, I understand that as you have also spoken of postmen, you will have to teach Estanislao Galíndez, who was a postman of Amurrio, I do not know if you will remember, that he was killed by ETA; we suppose Bildu will also have a sense of remembrance for him. I hope so, I hope so. I have to admit that the role that the Civil Guard, the National Police have played in liberating in the Basque Country and Spain from the real threat of ETA we have had and suffered. Make sure we feel very safe and protected when we see them on roads and mountains. Because, besides, we don't forget all those who fell killed by terrorists. What is clear to us is that you see a bad tribute to the Civil Guard, it seems to you a misconception. Now, it's fine to dress up and honor serial killers like Parot. You do see that well. Having said that, on the eve of October 12, the day of Hispanicity, from Vox we conveyed our gratitude and gratitude to all the State Security Forces and Corpses for ensuring the freedom and life of all Basques who were often in danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u133	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u134	President, ladies and gentlemen. First I'm going to give some explanation as to what's being done here. And don't worry, then we'll go into the body by body. With regard to what is being said here, in fact, not even the amendment that we have tabled is too important, among other things, because I said before, let us remember, what date this was presented and what happened afterwards. And it is in fact the Security Board of 18 June, and then the assessment that the Home Secretary himself, Mr Erkoreka, actually puts forward the amendment to his initiative. Look, things Mr Erkoreka said, that you say you have no information but I take them out of the papers, you could read a little more. He says, "If there was reticence with the autonomous police, it doesn't make sense, with this pact we will be more effective." They ask him: "Has the bilateral relationship with the State in terms of security, with the agreements signed, made a qualitative leap?" He says: "The qualitative leap comes from the fact that after four years without meeting the Security Board we have finally managed to do so. This does not mean that incommunicado has prevailed." Later they ask him: "Is the withdrawal of the State Security Forces in Euskadi out of the order of the day?" And he says, "We haven't approached him. The first thing is to delimit competences, and once we do, we can talk about numbers and numbers. What we were most concerned about was establishing mechanisms for cooperation." Well, this is at the stadium we're at now, and therefore your initiative is antipodes. That there are rocks and that there have been rocks and that there will be rocks among all the cops... [[End of tape 71.]] [[Start of tape 72]] ... Its initiative is of the antipodes. That there are rocks and that there have been rocks and that there will be rocks among all the polices of the world, not of Euskadi, not of Euskadi with Spain, in Euskadi with the municipal polices, of the world; there will always be them; we know that egos, jealousy between polices are usual and sometimes there are, let's call it whatever you want, skirmishes or whatever. But, of course, always, beyond those rubble, in favor of the security of the citizenry by the police as a whole. Look, Mr. Arzuaga. My supposed ethical superiority I think is a complex of you. It's not something I exhibit, it's his complex. And you'll know why. And, probably, with what I'm saying now, I'll help you know why. You say if we condemn that there was a bomb in a letter to a postman and that it was made a political office, if that proves the full weight of the law on the political office. I condemn all violence, have been exercised by persons who were in a government or in different governments or have been by officials or have been by whom it was. I condemn all violence. I condemn the violence of ETA, you don't. Perhaps there begins moral superiority, but not because I exhibit it, but because you have that complex. For I do condemn all violence, and let all who have exercised violence account for it before the law. And that's probably why you see political superiority, because I'm willing to keep all the cops working to make clear the 300 murders of ETA that are still unclarified. And maybe you, from your ethical inferiority or wherever you want, could collaborate in this, because I'm sure you know a lot more than me and you can help a lot more than me. Therefore, if you want the body to body, we will have body to body; if you want us to talk about ethical superiority, we talk about ethical superiority. And that's the way it is, look at you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u135	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, it is for respecting the boundary of the border's jurisdiction as well as giving the edge's work the value in the dotage; and not only critical, but value. On the first round, Mr. Arzuga, tell me that we agree with so many of the things you plan on your initiative, but at the same time we believe that the part that belongs to the formularies for the solution is lacking, both in initiative and in speech, both in both. We, on our first turn, have said that the Security Committee is to find solutions, to solve problems, and that's what we confirm. And we may say that at this moment it has improved in the way of the Security Committee, because the PFire Practice didn't exist. Then, on that side, we trust to solve or find a solution to the problems that are in that area. Mr Barrio, I understand that you are satisfied with the current situation. It seemed to me to understand that you are satisfied and, of course, that we can agree to some extent with you from a few months to this part. But in the rest of what is hidden after his statement, obviously, we do not share the diagnosis. We don't share it. There have been problems, there are problems, problems can be solved, and they must be solved. But from there coming here to say "if nothing happens, what are you talking about? If how we look, we're wonderful." We can't agree on that, Mr. Barrio. We can't agree at all. Were you satisfied and satisfied with the status quo we had, for example, when your governments denied the generational renewal of Ertzaintza, when they refused to convene the Security Board? What were they pursuing with that maintenance of that concrete status quo? Fortunately, I believe that those obstructive practices, those practices of clear wear and tear of our police will remain behind. Let's hope they belong to the past and stay in the past. To conclude, the National Police and Civil Guard require us to adapt ourselves to their respective jurisdictions. We want to meet and fix anything that can be done at the Security Committee. And, of course, we announce that the edge of the border is an integrated police officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u137	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Atutxa, we are satisfied, yes, yes, I have explained it very well; I have explained it, very well I do not know, I have practically explained it to you in the first part of my speech. We are satisfied and have been satisfied for a long time with the actions of the Civil Guard and the National Police. And we're satisfied, and we pay tribute and recognition to them... [[End of tape 72]] [[Start of tape 73.]] ...and we've been doing it for a long time with the Civil Guard and the National Police. And we are satisfied, and we pay tribute and appreciation to them for their trajectory and their actions, we are satisfied. Governments are something else, that is, governments sometimes do things that can be discussed and we do it and we discuss it, we discuss it in this Parliament, they are discussed and can be discussed in the Congress of Deputies, in the Senate, we can control the government, even if there are things that between governments do not work because we can go to the courts, for certain organs it does not work, it can work better or there are breaches, we can go to the courts, and that is the normal performance of the Administration, the normal and ordinary functioning of the institutions, but with what I assure you we are satisfied, and very satisfied, it is with the performance of the Civil Guard and the National Police in our land and in the Basque Country, because, among other things, many of us or many people in this country owe them their lives. Mr. Arzuaga, October 12th, there we will be, there we will be. If they invite us, as they usually do, we will be there, of course, living with them, as we have always done, that is, and thanking them and spending a good day we also enjoy having a good time with them, and of course encouraging them to follow their work, and of course, without any problem, tribute to the Civil Guard, the National Police, we owe a lot to some and we also of course recognize their efforts, their work and their sacrifices. Two hundred and three civilian guards killed by ETA, 146 national police officers will always deserve our tribute. The truth is that when Mr. Arzuaga spoke the other day he said he was missing another train again in connection with some basic issues of our coexistence, but when Mr. Arzuaga speaks he always forgets so many things, forgets... which remain in evidence, that is, Mr Arzuaga is fruitless, that is, sterile in his manifestations, in his debates. I mean, the talk and you notice so much of what you forget, of what you forget, that then what you say is that it doesn't make any sense, that is, you forget so many things, you have so many unfinished subjects, you have so many shortcomings, that of course it remains in evidence and it has again remained in evidence. I tell you, the other day I was losing (?) Trains in relation to the condemnation of violence and support for the Autonomous Police, and today there is evidence in relation to their forgetfulness. We believe in the laws and in Justice and condemn everything, everything that is done against the laws, against Justice, all the violence, of course, that is done in that way, and it is clear that you do not, it is clear that you have that subject pending. We will always condemn all violence, always do it and always do it and we have always done it. I want to conclude by saying that I have seen the amendment of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, we cannot support it because Mr Prieto, on the second point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to adapt the State Security Forces and Bodies to the strict scope of its powers". There is an area of mistrust that we do not share, there is an area of mistrust, it seems that we are demanding it, that is, there is an operation, if you have shown it and it seems that the Basque Government and the Government of Spain are satisfied at this time of these situations. For here, of course, on that second point of your amendment there is an area of mistrust which we do not share and which prevents us from voting in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u139	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. End of discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the EHG team, the original text of the proposal, so you can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 74; in favors 21; the contrary, 53; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u140	So it's not accepted. We're going to vote for the total missile correction, so we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u141	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the Euzarian patriots, you can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the contrary, 7; the Abstations, 27; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u142	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "The Companion of the Popular Euscal-Ciudadanians as a parlamentary group, concerning the setting up tools like a cheque for Child Schools. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Gil, representative of the Basque Popular-Cananos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u143	Thank you, Madam President, good afternoon to you all again. The truth is that I regret that it is so late and I acknowledge that I have had multiple suggestions from virtually all groups to postpone the issue, yes, but they will agree with me that (?) especially interesting, especially important. It always has to be a good time to talk about education. And, therefore, nothing, let us do our work today until the day ends well... [[End of tape 73]] [[Start of tape 74]] ... especially interesting, especially important. It always has to be a good time to talk about education. And, therefore, nothing, let us do our work today until the day ends well. The need to put free Child Education. That is the subject on which we want to propose an initiative here today. This issue, that early childhood education be free of charge, is a step that is gradually opening up in society. On 9 November last we had an appearance in the committee of trade union representatives of the workers of Haurreskolak, and on 14 December a debate was held in the same committee, in which we already clearly defended the freeness of child education in a universal way, regardless of family income, and not as an exceptional measure during the pandemic but as a permanent measure. This is our proposal. In the same vein, in January this year, in the processing of the budgets, our amendments to the Basque budgets worth EUR 6 million were included for this purpose, which, like all the others, were rejected on a flat basis by the groups of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, without any compensation. On 8 April this year, and on the occasion of the visit to Euskadi of our MEPs Luis Garicano, we already announced to the press the record of this initiative that we are finally debating today. And, as you know, this is an initiative that is one of the flags that we have defended in different autonomous communities, and that has already been applied in places like Andalusia, where it was approved in April 2019, or in Madrid, where it has also been launched, and we have also proposed it in Navarre. At present, as I suppose you know, in Euskadi, like the rest of the autonomous communities, there are public and private day care centres that are eligible for grants. The majority of public-owned nurseries belong to the so-called Haurreskolak Consortium of the Basque Government, and some more to municipal ownership. Families are paying a fee that is different depending on the income, the income of the family, and that is free in two very specific cases: for families with incomes of less than 18,000 euros, or when there are two children or more of the same family. Our proposal is very simple and very clear: to implement the total gratuity for children's education from 0 to 6 years. And we propose a concrete formula, as is the check Haurreskolak, but that is only one possibility among others that could be considered. The Haurreskolak check, which we have called it, is that companies pay their employees the cost of enrolling in Children's Education as a further remuneration to encourage reconciliation, and then this cost is compensated to companies through equivalent deductions. As I say, it's just a possible formula. It is not that this is the only one, and we are open to considering any other, but the important thing is the goal, and it was to ensure the freeness of Child Education. And I think that, the goal, I hope we share it more or less, because I think we have a lot of reasons for it. I'm going to degenerate here only four arguments, because it's late. The first or the first, because we believe that it can be done with very little money or with very little added cost for public coffers. When we hear about total gratuity it seems to sound like a lot of money, but Haurreskolak's management acknowledged, in that commission we talked about earlier, that in many schools there is a high percentage of places that cannot be covered. Therefore, what seems to be necessary is to make a restructuring of the size of the network, because there are places where there are actually missing places, in other places where there are left, and we have to make an adaptation to the real demand, which would allow us to assume gratuity at very little added cost. According to data from its own Department of Education, this course has had 5.08 per cent fewer enrolments in early childhood education from 0 to 2 years, and a decrease of 6.21 per cent in education from 3 to 5 years. On the other hand, it will be for money, the Basque Government last week reported that it provided 24.5 million grants to 276 centres offering education from 0 to 3 years, plus another 3.5 million for the 18 public day care centres not integrated into the Haurreskolak Consortium in 13 different municipalities. Currently, in the Haurreskolak Consortium's income structure, families pay around €5,963,000, or less, which is about 9% of the Consortium's income. We are not talking, therefore, about an amount that cannot be assumed by the Basque Government. And more so if we take into account the importance of this topic, the importance of early childhood education in children's careers, and the impact on families' lives, right? We think there is enough money if proper management is made of it. And if what they need is suggestions on where to get the money, because we are open to offering it to them; they already imagine where we can go. The second reason why we believe that this must be done is for pedagogical reasons. It is already widely demonstrated, I don't think anyone discusses this, the beneficial effect that early schooling has on children's education: they improve their social skills, increase their communication skills, advance in pre-academic concepts, improve their self-esteem, learn to better manage emotions, acquire healthy habits regarding hygiene, order, food, sleep, and improve their psychomotority. It is obvious that gratuity will encourage the use of day care, especially for the most disadvantaged families, who can now not even pay the fee, which there are. And the third reason why we believe this issue is important, and it is worth defending. It's for conciliation. Children's schools are essential, especially for those families in which both parents work, and allow for a proper reconciliation between work and family. An alternative, no doubt, is to hire someone to take care of the children at home, but that can only be allowed by the most comfortable families. And they don't cover the pedagogical part. Another alternative is to resort to grandparents, whom we are already exploiting in some cases abusively. They also need to reconcile with their rest and retirement, which have won pulse to pulse. And fourth reason, because it's the only stretch of education that's not totally free. Currently, public education offers this gratuitousness in primary and secondary education... [[End of tape 74]] [[CHAPTER 75. THE beginning of the tape]] ... And fourth reason, because it's the only stretch of education that's not totally free. Currently, public education offers this gratuity in primary and secondary education, and it is not well understood why the child education segment is penalized economically. For this reason, because of the low added cost it has, for pedagogical reasons of reconciliation and homogeneity with the rest of the education system, we propose to this House that measures be implemented, such as the Haurreskolak check or any other measure that carries the gratuitousness of the Children's Education, and that it can be applied in all the centres of the Consortium and in all other centres that enjoy authorization and supervision by the Basque Government. And nothing, waiting for you to understand the purpose of it, for thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u144	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Arrese, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u145	Congressman, thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. When the medical emergency is over, just today, when the medical emergency's over and we're doing a new normal thing, I can't take advantage of this moment to make a sincere confession to the community of education. We want to make a honest confession from the House of Basques, to all the professionals who have given what they have been able to do, in the most difficult of the pandemese day by day, in the worst moments, in the most difficult part of the day, in all the professionals who have given everything that is in education. Protocols changed from day to day, and our confession to groups of directors who had to apply all security measures. And to all the teachers who have been obliged to change their methods and pedagogies from one day to another, our confession. Our confession, our tables, our armchairs, my bardandillas, the washing machines that have been disinfecting at all times, our confession. And to all the concierges who opened the doors of the schools and put the blankets on them, who've been changing and removing them, our confession. Our confession to all the federatives who have been exposed to special risks. To all of them, our confession. And all of the parents and families that had to confide with their children, our confession. But especially the decisions of the adults, in one way or the other, better or worse, have been made or not understood, and the crude pandemia will have produced them from the first moment, and the children and young men who still produce the crudest pandemism, our confession, who have breathed in this pandemia, and have preserved the eupascal system, our confessions, and our thanks to them. To say this, I mean, in the present part of a new normality, that this enterprise which has been introduced from PP-Ciudadnos seems to us very positive about the freeness of Childesco. It is my third time that we speak of the freeness of the Childrens; and I must say, it is not in vain that we have cultivated the subject in several Tables and Tables. But we may sum up our words, and sum up this discussion with a simple question: We want the cycle 0-3 to be free, right? I think it's a simple question, and there's an answer. And I think, too, that we groups here ought to give this answer; that is to say, we want the cycle of 0-3 to go, yes or no? But what happened to you today? Well, until now, we think, there's been a decent way of getting into this discussion. And important agreements have also been made in this legislature. The first, on March 21st, 2018, I recall what was agreed on in the monographic discussion of pretty families. In fact, in this legislature, we agreed that the families below 18,000, families with income 18,000 euros, might be able to afford child schools a free share in the Parliament. And we thought that this was a very important decision, among other things, that in the configurations, this progressiveness, it was necessary to penetrate, to which and to what direction and to what direction it should go. On the other hand, we had another important deal, which we thought we had on December 14th, 2020. And we were told that the families who have suffered the most terrible effects of pandemia, and even the families who have seen their economic conditions changed, in an intermediate period, and to receive special benefit from a particular mode, due to the covid pandemy. But what is it, or what do we meet in front of? Well, now that the sacks in the children's wombs continue to cost money, the quota of the children is not yet available, and this legislation has already been agreed on in 2018. Besides, what do we find out about today's discussion? The families which have changed their social social condition by Covida have no special resources; if I am not mistaken, I shall be governed by groups supported by the government. But families who have seen his economic situation changed because of the covid have never received any special benefit in all this time. And the medical emergency is over today, and there has been no special benefit. And besides, it was agreed that Child Schools campaign a communication campaign for the Parcers, pushing Child Schools into the Partiers, and also using different communicative resources, which are often communicative, and which Child Schools make that propaganda for the Partier at different times. There is a curiosity: We're now engaged in an unusually-equivocal surveillance campaign for 1-8, the Child Schools in the Partier plates campaign. And, somebody saw it on the TV, the trams, the bus stations, the radio stations. Did we ever see Child Schools for the Parzier?... [[7th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 76]] ...on this campaign. And somebody saw it on the TV, the trams, the bus stations, the radio stations. Did we ever see Child Schools in a communal campaign for the Parzier? I didn't see him. That is to say, another agreement agreed on this legislature, or another agreement obtained, we have not seen that it was fulfilled. PP-Citizens taldeak ekarri digun proposamenari dagokionean, funtsean egin duzun handiketan, Gil jauna, in the intervention you have made, we can say that we share much of what you have said in terms of pedagogy, in terms of the importance that the 0-3 cycle has and in terms of the importance of achieving, for social cohesion and the equity of families, the gratuitousness of the harreskolas. We can get to share it, what we don't share is that all of a sudden, let's do a triple spin and take out the Haurreskolak check. I mean, in this Parliament, more than once it has been adopted, especially in 2018 as I have referred to, a resolution has been adopted that says that haurreskolas progressively have to move towards gratuitousness. What needs to be defined by the Government, as soon as possible, when it will take that step, because we are in 2021 and it has not yet taken that step. That, all of a sudden, as the Government does not comply with this proposal, we take out of the sleeve a Haurreskolak cheque for companies to pay workers, workers and workers to pay the haurreskola, the haurreskola informs the Basque Government and the Basque Government, with tax benefits, pays the company the Haurreskolak cheque and returns to the beginning. In other words, it seems to us that we would not have to do this if the government were to comply with the resolutions that have already been adopted in this Parliament. Moreover, I would like to remind you, and I hope you will vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Euskal Herria Bildu, that you, your group, your group colleagues in Rioja Alavesa supported a similar proposal which said that the Haurreskolak Consortium had to be totally free. I therefore invite you, and I offer you, to vote in favour of our amendment. Tampoco tengo mucho más que decir. I don't have much more to say. Yes, I want to confirm that to collect the Basque Country is a critical cycle of 0-3, because it seems to us, as has been said before, for the socialization of children, the psychedelic development of children, the possession of a language of a child, and, in another degree, that it is absolutely necessary for family cooperation. Hence it seems to me that there is a general consensus in several collections which have been made in the legislature, and that the cycle of zero-3 is essential, and that we need a zero-3 cycle to ensure the rights of children, and that we must penetrate into the democracy of the Partian democracy, and that the participation of the municipal councils must be greater than that of the turitions of the turitions of the turitions of the several sects of turitions have been thrown down by the different spokes of the parties in different commissions. There is also another consensus about the progress of the Parliament, and yet there is another important consensus that tells us that cirripedes of zero-3 which ought to be organized in the Dictatorical system. So we didn't get an agreement today. It's true we've been close to the agreement, but we haven't agreed. So, on our part, our proposition, our fundamental proposition, in which we demand the Child Schools to start from the present day, and to secure the stability of the public municipal schools in the same degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u146	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u147	Well, good afternoon. I promise to make it brief given the hours, don't I? Well, today it's up to us to talk again about the Haurreskolak Consortium. We have talked about this, as Mr Gil said, on many occasions in the Committee on Education, haven't we? Finally, it is a consortium, a public entity that manages public children's schools from 0 to 2 years old, with very specific objects in that consortium: to provide a comprehensive educational service for children from 0 to 2 years old, as well as social care, especially in the area of reconciliation of family and work life. I would like to place great emphasis on this aspect, which is fundamental to the Consortium, which is the work in reconciling family and work life. This aspect, by the way, which has been shown to be very important throughout the pandemic, despite the fact that, as the Consortium manager told us, that same pandemic situation also led to a drop in Haurreskolak's enrolments, probably because the stay during the confinement at the home of both parents helped to maintain such a reconciliation. In any case, it is an entity that contributes to the physical, intellectual, emotional and social development of girls and boys with very specific objectives. It also promotes and promotes appropriate conditions to ensure the use of euskera as a language of communication and learning without discriminating against any child or family by which their language is used. Haurreskolak is committed to co-education, to the process of education for equality, without discrimination on the grounds of sex, so that boys and girls have the same opportunities in an evolutionary development process. And it addresses the various areas of learning and development of children: knowledge and progressive control of the body that they acquire through experiences, building relationships between girls and boys, and the medium through different languages. We Basque Socialists propose 100 % schooling from the age of two and attention to all demand at lower ages such as those attended by Haurreskolak. As a political party, the Basque Socialists aim at the cohesion of the Basque educational system, and one of the essential measures to achieve this is the progressive gratuity of the 0-2 tranche in the public system and a system of aid to working families for the sake of concertation and equal opportunities. And in this sense, as Mr Arrese recalled, steps have been taken in the Consortium for Freeness, as he said, in 2018, the free tuition was obtained for families with income equal to or greater than 18,000 euros per year. And this is certainly an important step, but it is true that it is only a first step. The commitment must be to increase income levels to achieve the total gratuity of this educational space. But, as in everything else, in order for these advances to be consolidated and definitive, and not the result of improvisation, they must be gradual and firm in order to avoid any temptation to go back. In that sense, the Socialist and Nationalist groups... [[End of tape 76]] [[Start of tape 77]] ... definitive, and not the result of improvisation, must be gradual and firm in order to avoid any temptation to go back. In this regard, the Socialist and Nationalist groups have reached an agreement for an alternative amendment to the proposal of the People's and Citizens' Party, in which the Basque Government is urged to bet on this Consortium as a fundamental tool for conciliation. It seems to me that these are fundamental elements that define Haurreskolak, promoting the educational supply of the first cycle of Early Childhood Education, taking into account the actual demand and taking care of the adequacy of the services provided by the Consortium to the needs of families, and to further strengthen the measures of work reconciliation through the established system of tuition bonuses, modulating according to the income of families and allowing it to extend to a greater number of families. And as for the concrete proposal brought to us today by the representative of the PP-Citizens, I must confess that it has caused me a certain surprise, amazement, I do not know exactly what to call it, especially that point one where it urges the Basque Government to introduce measures such as the Haurreskolak check, through which companies pay their employees that cost which is then compensated for by equivalent tax benefits. Anyway, a bit of a goofy ride. First of all, as I said, we find the procedure farceous and complicated. And secondly, with that proposal that you make, it is true that you have said that it can be one more, where are those families that, unfortunately, do not have a job, have no business to go to, are single-parent families, have precarious jobs, are unemployed, that is, difficult to organize? And also, sincerely, to me, that expression of the school cheque draws me so much back to that of the educational cheque, the school cheque recommended by the PP in the 1980s, and it did so as an alternative to the public funding of education. It seems to me, frankly, very insubstantial. In addition, it must be borne in mind that at this point it is a question of establishing measures to be applied to facilitate the cost of the Haurreskolak Consortium's enrolments and not to, for the record, establish strange financing also for the private childcare sector, so that, taking advantage of the Haurreskolak push, they receive an additional money that is never bad, right? That seems to be, in fact, and unfortunately, the main objective of the People's Party-Citizens with this initiative. That is why I have already announced that, despite the good wishes that you have expressed in this rostrum, those wishes do not sympathize with the text that you have presented. And we will, of course, support the amendment that we have tabled together with the Basque Nationalist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u148	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, Congressmen. Mr. Gil, I don't know if it's time, if I'm too thick or what, but... of the initiative that today has brought us to the explanations that has given us, not square, many contradictions. See if I can explain it a little better. When we read the explanatory statement, we agreed on several points with you. One, the positive effects of education from 0 to 3 years on child development. Two, the important role played by haurreskolak in facilitating the reconciliation of families. We did not agree in the second part of the sentence where it said that especially those in which both parents work, father and mother, but neither is it mandatory for both parents to work. And three, in the free share of the haurreskolak for families with incomes less than 18,000 euros. At those three points we agreed. And even in his mention of the need to help families who, due to COVID-19, have been adversely affected by their economic situation. And for this purpose, in the Education Committee of 14 December 2020, as mentioned here, we adopted a compromise text with the votes in favour of Euskal Herria Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, Euskal Sozialistak, Euzko Abertzaleak and the abstention of his coalition, which said: "continue strengthening the reconciliation measures of family and work life, deepening the system through the system established to improve the registration of the Haurreskolak Consortium. This system will vary according to the income of the families and will temporarily take into account the exceptional situation of the families whose economic conditions have changed substantially as a result of the covid's pandemic, adapting the quotas to the new situation in which they find themselves." And you yourself, in that committee, and on various occasions, have reminded us that in your coalition's electoral programme they bet on the freeness of the haurreskolak, based on the demand for the principle of equal opportunities. Principle of equal opportunities. But all the above said I believe it confronts what the non-legislative proposal that has presented to us today raises. Despite his statement in his exhibition where he says: "We propose measures such as the Haurreskolak check with the aim of ensuring free universal access to schooling for all children aged 0 to 3 without taxing the family economy". But at its first point in the GNP they say: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to implement measures such as the Haurreskolak check, through which companies pay their employees that cost, which is then offset by equivalent tax benefits." Analyzing this point, I wanted to make a few small reflections. One, on the one hand, contradicts the principle of equal opportunity which you have claimed more than once, and I would even say that, in my opinion, it is exclusionary and discriminatory. I think Mr Pastor has also mentioned this. What about the autonomous ones? What about public administration workers? Don't you have the right, according to you, to this magic check? And I put these questions to you because at this point you only refer to the employees of companies. On the other hand, it calls for these salaries in kind for workers with tax obligations to have tax benefits for businesses. Do you believe that these measures bring anything to the end of the haurreskolak's gratuitousness? What helps families who are going through the worst? As you told us on December 14, 2020 in the Education Commission,... [[End of tape 77]] [[Start of tape 78]] ... ...the gratuity of the haurreskolak? What helps families who are going through the worst? As you told us on 14 December 2020 in the Education Committee, this measure is insufficient, it does not cover the needs of families. And second thought on the same point. I was surprised to read the word "implant." Mr Gil, how many times have we heard you say that private companies are not who to say what they have to do? And are you telling us today about implementing the Haurreskolak check in companies? I say again that it seems to me to be a proposal full of contradictions. Our commitment to the Haurreskolas is clear. We want to continue to consolidate the annual budget allocated by the Department of Education. Two, we want to continue to help families through the bonus and quota system. A flexible system that adapts to the needs of the moment and allows families with fewer resources to access the Consortium with full guarantees. Three, we want our children's education to be a quality education and learning, because we recognize the benefits of early schooling for children, but also for parents in reconciling family and work life. And for all that I've said, we're asking the Eukébertist teams to be in charge of the company of the Basque Socilists to betling Children's Schools for the Partier, as an essential instrument for contact, to promote the education of the first cycle of Child Education, considering the real application and the services given by the Parcerese to the needs of families. And secondly, to continue in strengthening the measures for the union of families and labor, to give Childer Schools to the Parzier plates by means of the system. This system is formed according to the rent of families, and may be enabled to spread it to more families. We've been trying, like Mr. Arrese said, to reach a middle-way. We started from the distance and got close, but, well, at the last minute, it wasn't possible. I'm sure we'll keep trying. Our choice is what's been doing for the last few years in the government, answering all the demands of the plates, and further adapting the space to those who have the smallest income to pay their fees. We believe that we have a proper tool for conveying to all families which require child-school service, and that's a kind of quotas formed by maticul's health and rent. It's a progressive radiation that aims to keep no one behind it. As we have at first said, we are quite agreeing with the benefits which are due to the education of 0-3 years of children, especially the good society, the incompatibility and inclusive benefits, which will compensate the differences, and confirm eloquence, which will prepare and socialize the children in co-workers with families. And besides all this, the indispensable service of Childeres is to help the work of all the families they need, and the family to bring their lives together. And that's why we're still working on all the families that need it to be available and no one behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. Gonzalez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u151	Thank you. "Please be brief" and I would add that "clear" reminds me of a series of micro stories that were bound up in my work at the Library. Please be brief, about all this time. Well, I don't think anyone's gonna be surprised when my parliamentary team says our purpose is to get the tour of the Basque Babys. That is our model, that is the goal of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita for the care of children from 0 to 3 years: the freeness of the Haurreskolas, and everything else are patches. Therefore, the proposal made by the People's Parliamentary Group-Citizens does not seem to us to be an appropriate tool because it continues to make a difference in access to the right to care, in access to public education for children, making that right dependent on the employability of its parents. It is not fair to recognize rights based on whether we are productive work units. That responds to an exclusively capitalist and patriarchal logic. Fundamental rights are the rights to which one has access and which are enjoyed on the basis of their objectivity. We defend the rights of all people for the mere fact of being so and not only on the basis of their employability or their regular administrative situation. This initiative leaves aside the right to free and universal education for children whose parents do not have one of these two requirements. Furthermore, the proposal is somewhat confusing. Why don't they focus on a model based on income, which is what is currently known as the Haurreskolak check elsewhere? Instead, they are proposing a tool based on incentives or deductions to companies. And in the event that this proposal came forward we would ask ourselves, what criteria are laid down for the coverage of the cheque?, would everyone benefit equally?, what company does the Haurreskola pay?, that of the mother?, that of the father?, both?, will the female household workers have the right to this measure?, what about the migrant families?, what company does it pay for those who are multi-employees? Well, in any case, we repeat why we insist on linking the right to care to employability. And we think we can clear it up. And it's that what we see over and over again is that you build on the idea, on an idea, on your proposals, and it's that there's first citizenship and second citizenship. That is why the Haurreskolak cheque is not even proposed as an income-related deduction, but as an incentive to the labour market, a market which, out of pure economic logic, puts business benefits ahead of the right to care. But furthermore, this question follows: What happens to people who are unemployed?... [[End of tape 78]] [[Start of tape 79]] ... to the right to care. But furthermore, this question follows: What happens to people who are unemployed? What we propose is not a serious or just pattern to us, and it offers no guarantee. Moreover, this paradox will be injurious in the eyes of the genus's influence. Our proposal has always been clear and I believe that here we share it with the rest of the groups: to introduce gratuitousness in the offer of zero to three years, to strengthen their staff, to increase the places according to the demand for regions and the need for conciliation and to gradually reduce the cost until implementing gratuitousness. And for not extending it, I will comment on the meaning of our vote. We have not made an amendment, but for all that I have said, we are going to vote against the initiative of the PP-Citizens Group, because for us it implies a mercantilisation of care and more control over conciliation without implying a revision of the effective organizational culture in companies and because it goes against the need to guarantee care and put lives at the centre. This slogan that I believe we all share. We believe that this dispute must be given in the law of future education. We believe that even in our next budget projects there should be an important line for that slogan. As far as we're concerned, we have to tell you that we're going to vote for EH Collection. Nevertheless, we believe that there must be a deeper discussion, and that it must be a law to all of the Basque children to maintain the tendency of education and education. In the amendment of the Basque Nationalists and Socialists group, we are reminded of other texts adopted in various PNLs. We don't see any additional elements. We have also seen course after course, and now legislature after legislature, that good, that the scope of the Haurreskolak Consortium is not enough, but if its bet is really to strengthen the Haurreskolak Consortium because we encourage them to do so, less text and more reinforcement, but indeed. We would like to remind you that we made a definite proposal on this subject which we gave to the President in the last course of his education, in the document which he calls him with dignity, and has not been completed. We don't lose hope or yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u152	Thank you, Mrs. González. Passing the answer turn, representative of the popular team of Basques, Ciudadans, Mr. Gil's word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have to start by joining the wide range of recognitions that Mr Arrese has made to the whole educational community during the pandemic period, and to complete it by adding recognition to families, which I believe have been the ones who have suffered the most in this area and those who have an undoubted merit in this regard. I do have a very bitter feeling about it because on the one hand I have found that we are all in favour of the free education of children. We agree on this, don't we?I'm not wrong to read what we said, am I? The question is how we do it, why it's not working. Mr. Arrese blames the Government and says that it is approved and that it is the Government's fault for not putting it into operation. The Government has not said anything about it, I do not know whether it would be appropriate to say anything. Well, if we all agree, I think we have a chance for the near future... We have lost it now, we could have made a transaction in which we would have been willing to question the subject of (?) Haurreskolak, because it is indeed another alternative. Now we could have come to a transaction, (?) We would all have agreed on this and we would have gained time, but indeed the origin, what is under our proposal, is undoubtedly the issue of equal opportunities, the defence of equal opportunities, indeed, that is what we want to guarantee. And it is true that our proposal includes that gratuity for all children and for all public and private schools. Yes, because we think that there is no reason to discriminate against them, and that in the end, in fact, it is not a question of anyone doing business, as has been said here, because they have defended themselves from models..., that is, little less than they have converted the (?) in a kind of defense of the heteropatriarchal model until the defense of... what you call neoliberalism, that is, no, that there is none of that, which is simply to make sure that all families can, in fact, take children to day care without costing them anything, as happens, I repeat, with the rest of the educational segments. And of course, I don't know if... I do not know if they have realized that in our proposal the key word is how. The check Haurreskolak I recognize has drawbacks, some have mentioned them here and are right, it is true, how we solve the issue of people who are not working, indeed, but it is a proposal. And I repeat, we say how and we could have proposed others... we are waiting for other alternatives, we have made the effort to propose an idea that in some other sites is working. But well, that in fact, I repeat, is one more tool than any other. Of course, we do not agree that this is done only for public schools, so we will vote that no to the Bildu amendment and we do not think that the PNV SOE approach is enough with the usual words: bet, reinforce, improve. But in the end we're the same as before. We would like a greater commitment, it seems to us that more on an issue like this, on which it seems that the whole House agrees, I think it deserves a greater commitment. And I think today is actually the time to send a message to all the Basque families who have... They're in this situation. It is indeed, well, that we have not reached an agreement in this transaction, but I hope that we will have an opportunity to do so soon, because there seems to be a clear will on the part of the whole world to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u154	Thank you, Mr. Gil. We collect EH, Arres won't speak a word. Basque Socialists, even Pastor. It's open. It's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u155	Yes, with your permission, from where you came from. And to answer quickly. Rodriguez andreari, reinforcements in the haurreskolak. Last year... [[End of tape 79]] [[Beginning of tape 80.]] ... Excuse me, from where you came from. And to answer quickly. Rodriguez andreari, reinforcements in the haurreskolak. Last year 2.5 million more than the previous year in the budgets, budgets of 2021 with 2.5 million more for the haurreskolak. Y al señor Gil, el Gobierno no ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha hazho nada, y el señor Arrese tamen lo ha mencionado. En 2018 se llegio a un acerdo, cycine, en el que se decía, as the first step in the direction of the freeness of child school, and in the progress of progress, let it be for families with fewer incomes than 15,000 dollars." And that's how it's done today. And last year, even those who have had trouble with the covid situation have taken measures and made publicity in the usual channels. He used to put it on regular channels. And after all, you've said that one of the problems of Child School check could be parents who are unemployed. But, well, I want to remind you. ) That the quota is zero for those who have less than euros. So that's what's going on for them now, kids' school. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Together, Mrs. González must not speak. So, after the discussion, we're going to vote the original text of the proposition, like the popularCanos group of Euskals. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 69; vows given, 71; supporters 7; contraries, 64; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u157	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes at the meeting, 69; the votes given, 71; the pros, 25; the opponents, 46; Absences, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u158	Integer correction not allowed. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the eucalypologists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 69; the votes are 71; the supporters are 39; the contrary, 28; the abstations, 4; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-07.u159	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at eight o'clock in the afternoon.
