ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the fifth point on the subject list has been withdrawn and that 33 lords and ladies have taken the vote. Preceding theme: "Irrelation of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, Aina of the Course of the Legendal Markidae's compatibility conditions. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? On or on? So, simply, we vote for the Bill of the Union Committee, and we can't be members of the legislature related to the judgment, so you can vote for the other members of the legislature. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0; 0; 0,0; 0,0; 0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u1	Therefore judgment is approved. First point in theme list: "The Bill of the Confederation of the Confederation of the COVID-19 over the legal proposition on how to handle the pandemy of the law. Discipline and final resolution. Do any members of the board want to vote for the judgment? So, we're going to the team shift. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. In these weeks of accelerated processing of this bill, we have put the emphasis on a question that for Vox is nuclear: the manifest unconstitutionality of the text put forward. We have also criticized the formula chosen for its urgent handling, the competitive invasion it seeks, that incomprehensible disarray of the rest in determining levels of risk and threat. But today, what is most striking is that you are going to applaud the adoption of an unnecessary law, as your own promoters acknowledge. That is, in private, that in this House we must play the game of lies, the impossible arguments. Today you will approve the compulsory use of masks even on the terrace of your house, just the same day that the Spanish Government will free us from them in public spaces, on the streets, on the beaches, on the mountain. What are you guys gonna do? A kick like Mr. Fernández's last? Because, and you know it well, on the street we will be thousands of people who will not be willing to give these impositions for good. In addition, this Parliament is going to adopt an emergency law that comes in bad and late, which you intend to apply when the level of positives per 100,000 inhabitants decreases at a good rate towards the 50; when the hospital pressure, both on the plant and in the ICU, begins to be minimal; when we begin to see group immunity at hand, or should say flock, that term that is more in line with the view that the government parties have of citizenship. In commission we were told in disdain that perhaps not now, but that this law can serve for future pandemics. Although given the name of the legal text, it should again be by COVID-19, and in any case be linked to social contact or the diffusion of aerosols. Or is this legal framework for you all? And I return to the beginning, to the unconstitutionality of the law. This Government and the parties that support it seek to arrogate competences that they do not have. They seek to limit the exercise of fundamental rights of individuals and impose obligations that depend on other legal frameworks and other bodies. It is true that they now incorporate the amendment of the left, in the sense that the restriction of these fundamental rights can only be carried out under the framework of a state of alarm; which leads us to ask ourselves why we need this law then. Absolutely for nothing. And before we finish, just a couple of notes about the amendments we maintain, even though they will be rejected. Vaccination is a voluntary exercise, and neither you nor any other administration can penalize anyone who decides not to be vaccinated. In Spain, as in the European Union and following WHO dictates, the levels of risk are different from those you intend to impose on us with your law. Yours are confused by different and entangled. The participation of prestigious experts without a party card must be required from managers. We are also opposed to limitations of exercise that are greater in worship centers than in other types of meetings. We therefore believe that this law is unconstitutional and unnecessary, but since there is no doubt that you are going to approve it with the complicity of the left, we will of course be obliged to appeal to the Constitutional Court, of course, in an exercise of responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u3	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u4	Good morning, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Today the code of the pandemia will be tested, but we from the beginning said that this law was late and that there were several things to be improved on the content. And that's what we've done with our rights. In the end, this law will come out. This law is not derived from the Government, but from the sects which support the Government. And finally there's been a deal with the Podemos party together. We must say from the content that this agreement has not been very profound; we should say the contrary. But it is plain that governments or groups, especially the Jest Party and Sociists of the Social Party, have chosen to make their agreement, have been Podemos together. And it's no surprise, because at last there are three sides of Madrid together. Today, as I said, an important law is passed. An important law is supposed to be passed. In principle, a relevant law to address the situation of the pandemic. But we have to say that its effectiveness is questionable and its application may also be non-existent, seeing the scenario of descalation in which we currently find ourselves. He said that its effectiveness is questionable on a number of issues. It is a question of establishing limitations of fundamental rights limited to a state of alarm, which no autonomous community can limit without the normative umbrella of a state of alarm. It affects aspects without the coverage of a Public Health Act, which should be the support of the forecasts and contents of a law of these characteristics. And also, in a specific article – something we have tried to remedy through our amendments; rather, to correct – it is a matter of circumventing judicial control of the measures provided for in this law. Therefore, as I said, its effectiveness is more than questionable. Its application will also be non-existent. It won't be possible to apply. If we stick to the words and statements of the Lehendakari himself the other day, when he pointed out that Euskadi is going to emerge or may soon emerge from the state of emergency, the measures envisaged can only be implemented in the context of this situation. In the end, so much running for nothing. He said he's late. And he is late because he registered, as we all know, a few months ago in this House. The procedures have been absolutely accelerated. We had a presentation that took place in a day. This proposal for a law has been dealt with through the urgent procedure. And man, a law of these characteristics, and the scope of what it deals with in its content, would have been desirable if it had been dealt with through a bill, accompanied by mandatory reports. Reports that would have been very valuable. Perhaps it has been dealt with through a bill, not a bill, because it would not have passed the cut of some of those reports. The doubt is there. But the case is that it has been treated as a proposal for a law, with many shortcomings in both the formal and the content. That we have tried to remedy through 88 amendments. Of which 15 amendments have been supported by the proposing groups. I am grateful, and we are grateful from this group, for the acceptance of these 15 amendments by the groups supporting the Government. They will certainly help to improve the text in the formal aspects, not in the content, because the groups supporting the Government, which are the promoters of this initiative, have not wanted to establish a dialogue or a substantive debate has not been established, rather, on the content of the proposals put forward by the PP-Citizens group. We, through our amendments, are, on the one hand, trying to clarify the issue of competition. Fundamental rights restrictions can only occur under the umbrella of the state of alarm if they are intended to be of a general nature. If they are to be of a different nature, they have to be done within the guidelines established by the Supreme Court's own jurisprudence, as it has recently pointed out. That is, without the state of alarm, they can only be adopted if their essential character is recognized and precisely narrowing down the personal, territorial and temporal scope, as the Supreme Court has said. We too are trying to re-establish judicial control of the measures, which has also been tried to lay down a specific provision in an article. And, therefore, we eliminate, because, obviously, all measures, as it could not otherwise be, contained in a law, and in this law, are subject to judicial control before the contentious-administrative jurisdiction. We set up a real Labi, a Labi of experts, and not a political Labi that, in our opinion, is what is now, as is now formed by the Technical Labi, and the Political Labi, obviously, because it is political. We also propose an external assessment of the pandemic. This was an issue that has been pointed out and pointed out by several experts throughout the appearances. We also collect the situation of the persistent covid, ensuring an early diagnosis and adequate follow-up of these patients. We are also trying to ensure a strategic reserve of health products. We already know what's done. Obviously it has to be done. But we want it to be included in this law, expressly. We also want to count on or strengthen those bodies that have not been properly counted on throughout the management of this pandemic, such as the epidemiological surveillance units, the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases or the Advisory Council on Vaccines. We also create the figure of health authority. And we reinforce all those aspects that throughout the management of this pandemic, for us and for many professionals and experts themselves, have been insufficient. As has been the primary care, as has been mental health, as has been the tracking network, as has been the subject of laboratories at some point, as has been all that has to do with the social health space, with what has also happened in the residences. We also flexible the visiting regime, the exits of the elderly with the precise cautions, but taking into account the impact of the confinement and the situation of isolation from the elderly, we believe that in this specific area the forecasts contained in this law must be made more flexible in some way. We also make a reference that seems to us at this very important moment to all that has to be effective protocols, even concrete aids for the renovation of the air in the enclosed spaces, and above all also now seeing that we are going to go to a progressive descalation, if the scenario allows, which seems to be so, where much is going to be interacted in the closed spaces. And on the other hand, two more things. We reinforce all those aspects that have to do with information. We believe that over the course of all these months, this long year, the information has not been sufficiently clear, transparent and has not easily reached the citizenry, on many occasions with conflicting and changing criteria. And in this respect we must make a greater effort and this is something that we also envisage in an amendment with the creation of an article that is also specific, as well as special awareness campaigns aimed at the most vulnerable groups, and at the moment at the young people, who are also one of the most interacting groups. And I want to end with a reference to hospitality, which is one of the collectives, of the sectors – not only the hospitality, but also the hospitality, trade and tourism – that have suffered most from many of the restrictive measures that have been implemented on the basis of the Bizi Berri III Plan, of which, in addition, there is a translation... many of the measures in this plan are transferred to this legal text. And I want to say this because, for us, as we have pointed out on many occasions, without prejudice to the fact that limitations had to be adopted, and that they also affected hospitality, we believe that many of them have not been justified and have been very severe restrictions, especially when the link between the increase in contagion has not been clearly demonstrated, with the highest incidence rates of all the autonomous communities, with which they occurred precisely in the field of hospitality. And in that regard, in order to safeguard this sector, we have also wanted to remove all the limitations set out in the relevant article of the law. We do not eliminate them, but we do propose that they be addressed through a subsequent regulatory development of the law, which seems to us to be most appropriate. In short, ladies and gentlemen, 88 amendments, which I believe were interesting amendments, which I believe were amendments that were also many of them because of their relevance and because we also believe that they improved the text substantially, could have been taken more into account by the groups supporting the Government. It hasn't been, and it will be again. A law is adopted today, as I said, in principle important but of dubious application and of dubious effectiveness. And, well, that's what there is, and that's what we'll see if there's any chance on another occasion of improving the texts that are being proposed, and let's hope that this time the texts will come from the Government's hand. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u5	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u6	Thank you, ma'am, good day to you all. Today I would like to bring Marie Curie here, with whom I and all of us have learned, among many other things, the value of science. And today is precisely a good day to talk about this value, the value of science, because thanks to science and research, today we are moving towards recovery, at least to epidemiological recovery. Today, even today, we vote for the law that will give us legal security in front of COVID-19. I'd rather not have to have the law against the pandemese. But we all know where we come from, and we can't trust. It would be a good news not to apply because it would mean that we're doing well. But, as I said, we can't trust and we have to be ready. It is true that the masks seem to be no longer necessary on the outside, and we deserve it. It's a relief. In a sense, above all, emotional, and it is something that certainly makes us happy. But we cannot legislate according to the day ahead, we must legislate with a global look and with courage. From this week you can say that we won't need a kiss, at least in the streets. And that's very good news, and it's also a new one we deserve. And I, at least, am very glad of it, but we must be ready while the virus is alive before what it can bring. We must be prepared for future rebounds and for possible variants. That is why I believe that this agreement on this law that we support today from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita is very valuable. It is an agreement on a law we have already said that yes, that it is late, but here it is and that now, with this agreement, we believe it is substantially better. We have come to this Parliament with the intention, with the aim of being useful in making a constructive policy and, above all, in areas that are as sensitive as public health, where we will always be ready for dialogue and agreement. We consider ourselves, we are, a transformative left. We're facing the future, we've got challenges. We have to get to the Public Health Law now. And there, we need courage, too. We need to strengthen the public system, a strong member of the community, and a worthy functional condition. There's our main challenge, the reduction of the wait-lists, the security of eucalyptic attention, the acquisition of unobtrusive violence, etc. We have always considered that not for him serves little good, or rather nothing. We believe that we need to negotiate, we need to debate and we need to be constructive, and we believe that with the anti-pandemic law we have been. And in future legislative challenges we will also fight to improve the material conditions of people, their rights and dignity. That's our sign of identity. That is how we understand politics, that is, knowing when to say yes, and when to say no. We don't have vertigo and we don't marry anyone. We really believe that being useful to citizens is, as I said, knowing how to say yes and knowing how to say that not in a firm, courageous and coherent way in each case. That's what we're trying to do. I believe that today we have a good law and that, in part, it is also thanks to Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. We have remedied the unconstitutionality, we have substantially reduced the sanctioning framework. We have always believed more in pedagogy than in punishment, and we believe that yes, we had to regulate in a clear and secure way what are the limits that can be established by the public authorities to the rights of citizens, and also who and how they can make those decisions. We've exceeded the balance of the Constitution. We have clearly reduced the regulation of punishment, because we have always believed more in pedagogy than in punishment. We have established the limits of public power in order to reduce the rights of citizens. We believe by us that this law is much more aggrieved, and that civil society is introduced into the organs which regulate pandemia. Besides, Parliament's control has increased. And so the Government will have to appear for the most part in this legislature, and not only in order to give etermological data, but also in order to give us an account of the social and economic reality we live in from the pandemia. We have a better law. We have been stressing for a long time that, without a strong public health system, the population is defenseless in situations such as suffering. This law could not regulate this, but others are coming. We need good laws. And here our contribution and our gaze we believe is necessary. Not only do we face legislative challenges in the area of health, but this legislature will also emanate environmental laws, the new Equality Act, the euskera decree, the management of industrial policy. The question is, are they going to be tools that improve people's lives? We have the conviction that they must be, and we are going to fight to contribute and to negotiate, as I think we know, firmness, courage, negotiation and height of sight. And as always, what he said, know how to say yes and know how to say no. I think that's what citizenship expects of us. That, in our view, means being a responsible, practical and constructive opposition. Marie Curie told us that processes are not always fast or easy. I work, and get improvements. That's our motto and it'll be our imprint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where we're supposed to be. On 26 March, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party registered the proposal for a law on the management of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our aim was to provide us with effective tools in the cases of maintaining a state of alarm, or a health emergency, to respond to the risk situation that we are living through this pandemic, with health and preventive measures contained in the text of the law and exploring our own competences within the framework of the Organic Law on Public Health. When we tabled the bill, we knew that we had an absolute guaranteed majority, but we made an explicit and sincere appeal to the rest of the forces of this Parliament, to add. And Elkarrekin Podemos showed his availability. During these months, the three parties have had talks, we have exchanged documents with the aim of reaching an agreement that we finally achieved. And with the incorporation of these amendments, the final text of the law, which we will adopt today, is enriched and will have the negligible support of 47 of the 75 parliamentarians that we make up this House. I think it is fair to say that, if we have achieved this agreement, it has been for the development of a sincere exercise of dialogue and consensus-building. An exercise that began with the offer made by the proponents to be open to input, and which was well understood by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, by accepting that offer and proposing its intention to address possible improvements to the text initially presented. And this is a very important fact, because, if we really want to explore agreements, we have to be aware of what that requires of each of us. And in this process those demands are very clear. First, as a starting point, the proponents of the text should be genuinely open to the improvement of that text, as it was. Secondly, on the part of the rest of the groups, that those who really want to explore the way of the agreement, in their amendments, propose improvements to that text. Improvements, not covert amendments to the whole, which actually completely blur the law itself, or turn it into something else. And three months after we started the process, the opinion reflects the amendments which, in our view, have been tabled with this aim of improving the text. And, in the same way, it leaves out those that we understand that have been raised with other intentions. In this respect, although I will then recognise substantial differences in approaches, the fact is that the amendments tabled by both Vox and EH Bildu are de facto an amendment to the whole of the draft that we are presenting. In the case of Vox his amendments are simply summed up in denying Euskadi's capacity for self-government in our own health skills. Let us basically put into practice what Mrs Martinez said last Thursday, in this very rostrum, and which we cannot share. That our country has a serious disease that is called state of autonomy. But in view of Vox's amendments, it seems that its sole objective was not to deny competence to the Basque Government, because the fact is that its amendments also seek to deny the executive powers of the Spanish Government. It must be that, for Vox, the Government of Spain is also another disease. In short, simply a nonsense that the only thing that reveals is the phobias that, week yes and week too, move us into this rostrum. In the case of EH Bildu, its amendments are also an amendment to the whole, although I recognise that it has a very different content and much more work to do. They are an amendment to the whole, because, clearly, they propose a completely different law, which goes beyond and beyond the subject of the proposed law that we present, which, as you know, focuses solely and exclusively on the management measures of this COVID-19 pandemic. And that, as everyone will understand, prevents any approach. At the risk of leaving me a lot of things in the tinker, but we have the minutes we have, the summary of your amendments I think could be that we are being given a general law on pandemic management in abstract form. As a result, its amendments raise issues which, if necessary, would be specific to a public health law, but not to the one we are dealing with today. We've said it from the beginning. Our intention has not been to make a general law applicable to any epidemic situation that may arise in the future. But for a simple principle of reality. Because the particularities of each epidemic, the form of transmission, virulence or the degree of mortality make it very innocent to think that the solutions that serve to fight this virus can also serve to respond to other kinds of health crises. That is why this is a concrete law for a specific situation: the management of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, they know that the Government's legislative timetable includes a commitment to address, in this legislature, a new plan and a new law on public health, among other things, to incorporate a new public health strategy in line with new health threats, to develop the idea of community health, and to rely on technology and research as preventive and corrective elements, and to strengthen early warning and response systems for the prevention, protection and detection of risks to community health. In the case of the People's Party, we have incorporated 15 amendments, many of them so that we believe that they improved the text and that we use them to thank. Having said that, I do want to take advantage of some ideas that have been launched and that I cannot let go. As I have already told you in the presentation and in the committee itself, in no case is it intended, of whom we have proposed this law, to skip judicial guardianship, let alone when fundamental rights may be at stake. But it is that, moreover, that would be simply impossible, because we live in a rule of law. And that judicial guardianship will always exist. And the clearest example we have experienced here, in Euskadi, where even with a state of alarm in place, the courts took action back. Even with the state of alarm, that judicial guardianship has always been there. Obviously, without a state of alarm, it'll always be there too, as it can't be otherwise. There'd be more to it. But, as we have seen the emphasis on this, we have had no problem in making it even clearer, changing the wording of article 2.2 of the Act which, more forcefully, expressly limits the validity of measures that are restrictive of fundamental rights, only as long as a state of alarm statement is in force. And, with regard to what we have been told that it has been done through a proposal for a law, that it has had urgent processing and other competing doubts that have arisen, I refer to what I have already said to Mr Gordillo in the debate on taking account of this proposal for a law. As you know, Mr Feijóo in Galicia put forward his anti-pandemic law through a legal reform, processed in the same way as this, proposed law with urgent processing. And in that law, his party partner, Mr Feijóo, has tried to explore Galicia's own competences. And in that exploration, it turns out that he is now negotiating in a bilateral commission an out-of-process agreement to the unconstitutionality appeal that was filed against him. I simply agree that you allow us to explore our competences, our self-government, in the same way that the PP has done in Galicia. I don't ask anymore, but I don't ask any less. In any case, I repeat it expressly; I sincerely thank you, Mrs Garrido, for your attitude in the presentation and in the committee. Finally, I will say something that I also think is quite important, which we said when we tabled the bill. I believe that this may be the first time in history that the proponents themselves of a law are the ones who most earnestly want that law to be as short as possible in force. Or we would even love it if it were not necessary for it to ever be, because that would mean that there is no longer a health emergency. And it looks good, but we have an obligation to put forward an effective instrument for that "while we achieve the goal of returning to normality", which is simply the safest scenario, also legally speaking, as well as for whether there is a reversal of the situation, which of course no one wants. And until then, we only have one safety: to vaccinate, to vaccinate and to vaccinate, which is the fastest and safest way to get this health emergency to end that has turned around like a sock to the world we knew. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u9	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Deputy EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u10	Good morning, everyone. Before we begin with the introduction, we would like to confirm the gratitude expressed at the Board of Health to-day, because it is never superfluous to thank those persons whose time, knowledge, and experience are most generously offered. Let us therefore be grateful to those who have come to the Commission, who have not been able to come to the Commission, and who have contributed to them. Today the law which the legislature will accept is born dead. The invalid is born, in 26th, by a decree of law, in some measure, in some measure. And now that we're accepting this law, in the Council of Madrid, it's partly denominating this law. And the prediction of the Urkullu himself to suspend his health attack, is also the interpretation of the law. It goes without saying, that the law, which has been established in the state of alarm, already destroys it. And that it is more by rule than by law, and that it limits the force of the law from the very beginning. This pretence of law is a law of the past which is disaffected and overcome. You say over and over, it's for COVID-19, but it doesn't work for that either. This law is the reflection of the impossibility which the government has shown to evolve from the first motion of the waves, the model of management which this government has shown in contrast to the pandemy. One, always late, two, rolling on the same stone, and three playing on one side. Although the pandemonade evolution has shown us how to get ahead of us, although not the mechanism of the throne on the same stone, and although Urcullu has been constantly asking Sanchez for co-operance, and agreeing to the measures, here the teams that support the government, and the government itself, for the work, shut up the means for interview, and a good arrangement. This doesn't mean there's no need for any law, because we need a law. The pandemia of COVID-19 is not over, though now on certain conditions the mask will be removed. We also asked the chief physician to remove the mask under certain conditions, but this isn't over yet. As an expert remarked, the temporal frame is probably two-five years old. Besides, the evolution of the vaccine that is about to be seen and variants. See in Great Britain what's going on in Portugal at this time, and what's happening yesterday's Navarre. Be careful, be careful, with summer-flows, variants can be brought to look at the autumn heat. But that doesn't mean we have to go on in the skeletons of the first wave, management of the pandemia. It's not enough to say that we've learned it, but in practice we have to show that we've learned it. And the new phase, which we are engaged in, demands a new model of management, which is immediately to be centered in other measures, and which, with only one case, demands strict measures. And what other tools, measures, that have never been used to the government before, require time to use. As for the rest, the parallel network which has been built up so far has been cancelled and used by the constructions of the administration. We have need to face the pandemy of COVID-19, and to face any occurrences of the change that can come, and to face the appearance of new potential infections with a legal protection of a legal structure and tools. In all these cases, to answer efficiently, yes or yes, Mr. Rico, is the Public Health. Public health is not a public health system, but the structure under the Medical Department is the Public Health Department. And in particular, what we need is a strong network of care and continuity that is contained in this structure. A good alert system that will be able to detect and detect the possible in time, and quickly react and answer structure. Because it can only guarantee efficiency, even if it's outside the health emergency, even in situations where the government can be found since Saturday. That's what we've been trying to do with our contributions. In two main ideas, on the one hand, to structure a strong spine, to the top, to the height, to the structure of the epidemic units, which are not at the present day on the steps, and to compensate for the damages that may arise in the health measures. As a whole, the most vulnerable of individuals, and the more vulnerable, so that individual and individual rights are less injured than they can possibly be. We have also attempted to penetrate into democracy and to establish a standard of cooperation, to create a space in the legislature, and even in the townships. We have also attempted, in the use of our functions, to regulate the law for the 1st and 177 of emergency, the law of the 8/1997 laws of the Basque Institutions, whether by general laws or by other general laws, to establish the legal frame of moderation, from which we proceed to conform according to evolution, but above all to prevent it. We've tried flexible, open and long-breathing tools with our contributions. What Madrid would maintain in front of the possible changes. Law-proposamenari law-zaera eta egonkortas una ematen ahalegendo gara. Etxe Honetako zerbitzu juridikoak gure emendakinen inguruan ondorengoa esaten zuten txostenean: "All the amendments imply a major change in the proposal of law. The spirit of the amendments, starting with the proposal to amend the title of the initiative, is to give it a more general and therefore more stable and comprehensive character". We tried to include the contributions demanded by highly experienced experts in Edemyology. One of them, giving me technical weights to restore the health view, but from a metadilinear field to take people as a whole. That's why we're proposing to name the health emergency director from the epidemic, which would coordinate the technical Labi, which would define the strategy and develop the strategy. We'd reinforce the technical Labi: with mental health, first attention, social services, economics, education, SOS calls, and so on. That way, experts in epidemicology define protocols to work directly with the representatives of that area. So we proposed to take the place of Jonan Fernandez with an expert in the state's profile of Fernando Simón. That's what we're proposing. We'd propose to have transparent technical reports that would be public. Thus, if the Council or President of the Government does not fulfil these reports, he ought to explain them, so that we should be more pedagogic, more coherent, why the citizens should understand some measures, and not others. We establish permanent tools for evaluation, we establish a combined system for information, and an association with our local research centres, industry, etc., etc., etc. That's why we operated tools. As soon as this crisis of health continues, we used to activate the municipal network, to focus on communal attention and preventiveness and precautions. But above all, and from every point of view, we'd place people in the centre. In a detailed section, where the medical measures were damaged, we planned the measures for revaluation of the sectors in a wide and long way. Yes, the social services, to guide the housing resources, to protect the most vulnerable citizens, and to compensate for different sectors in different fields of work, be selfnomous, small companies, hosts, etc., and so on, we opened the way to secure any possible security required for economic supplies inside the Basque System. By establishing extraordinary procedures in the attainment of preparation, to facilitate the access. To overcome the differences by giving the same answers to all people. In the end, we ought to give more to those in the most pernicious circumstances than to those who are not in this state, if our end is socially social. All this and more is the contribution we have tried to do with our 72 amendments, but unfortunately they have failed. It's a shame we didn't have a conversation. And, Mr. Rico, there has been no appeals to conversation and negotiation, no honest calls. We went to see Mrs. Garcia. Well, first of all, a few months ago, before the law came, he contacted all the teams, even with us. Then at last it was proposed by parlamentary groups. When the amendments were introduced, we got in touch, and we were told: "Oh, we went to the parliamentary teams," the parliamentary groups were not in contact with us, and we got in touch. So then it is lawful, but every man decides with whom he bargains, with whom he negotiates. It's okay, but please, just like it is. We will therefore deny the lawalism which is admitted to-day, because it is not effective, nor oppose COVID-19, because it is already born dead, because it is destroyed. Because he doesn't get the basic content that he should receive, or the ones that the experts asked for. We've lost a good chance. A good chance to get ready for the present and the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u12	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. At the whole meeting which we proposed to-day to be a law, our party said that we were doing it in order not to be applied because the pandemia had disappeared, but only to apply it for the moment, though it had been much diminished in front of the situation of two months ago. I wish it never applied. And that already in itself meant when we said it, and it means now that our proposal was made and we make it ad hoc for a pandemic, that of the VOCID-19 exclusively, and that its validity would only last as long as it took to disappear the virus that makes us sick and that kills us. And the less the pandemic lasts, the less the law will last. And the less the law lasts, the happier we'll all be. On the other hand, this law was determined to be as strong a support as possible, not to see the uncertainty of the dependence of the decision of the Court of Justice again. For here one thing was decided, and contrary to all other communities. That, however, would be based, as we said, on the maximum expression of our competences, without breaking the current legal framework and accepting the basic regulatory rules. Even though sometimes, many times, we have not found it appropriate or managed with the necessary common agreement. Finally, we proposed a law open to all contributions that would like to build a law with us and that would accept the principles on which we based the above-mentioned proposal. Except for Elkarrekin Podemos, who came to us before the end of the amendment phase, which I thank, no other group did. We therefore had to analyse them in the limited time we had between the receipt of the amendments and the presentation meeting. We immediately saw that we could separate them into two blocks. Some were those who, accepting the proposal, suggested modifications with which, according to them, they always intended to improve the text, and others were those who, not accepting the proposed framework, suggested totally different laws. Starting with the latter, the Joint Group, with whom I will hardly stop, would simply suggest by amendment a law that breaks the current competition framework, for us already short-lived, and in each and every one of its amendments reflect a submission to national unity in decisions, to uniformity and to the waiver of our powers. EH Bilduri dagokionez, zuzenketa partzialak egin ditu osoko zuzenketa bat Egypt ezinezkoa delako. Berri law bat egin of the age zuzenketa partzialetan islandu of. Ondo dago, possabila yes, daggigi eta onargarria yes; baina ez da zuzentzea aipatu diskizuedan asmoak zituen law bat, beast law bat proposed baizik. The bulk of its amendments relate to a new law that would cover all possible pandemics that could occur in Euskadi, and that is not the intention of our proposal; that, as I have already told you from the beginning, was intended only to address that of COVID-19. It may seem unambitious to you, perhaps, but it is the one we need now and the one we need to address. For subsequent pandemics, we have already told you, the Public Health Act, provided for in the legislative timetable and to which you should make either these amendments or all those you wish. But not to this proposition. You, for example, suggest obviating the basic rules of the state, and reject the state of alarm because – and now I quote textual – "they are not suitable for the implementation of the co-governance model". Of course not, but you cannot obviate the legal and organizational reality of the state because you do not like it; neither do we, but we know that doing as if it does not exist does not contribute anything. The ERTE are also national regulations and have nothing to do with the exchange of information between the two, but you accept them and defend them to the full in your amendments, which I think is very good. But only since negotiation, exchange and complicity can progress, but never because we skip it in a law. Much to say, by the way, that this law should be a decree, and you no more or less create a post of director of infectious diseases by law, which will also be the head of your new Labi and which you can include in your team whom he or she wants. That person, who they say has to be independent, will be chosen, I imagine, applying the independence meter, the measurer of independence, will make the decisions about – and I read again textual – "perimethral closures, screening of populations, hotel closures, etc." Almost nothing. They add as a function of the Government – and I quote again textual – "it will be the responsibility of the Government to adopt and publish the resolutions adopted by the Technical Lab, so that the decisions are implemented as soon as possible". He does not pass it on to the Governing Council for discussion, no; for approval and publication. I guess the Lehendakari won't sign it, he'll sanction it, because they don't give him the right to correct what the independent epidemiologist proposes. That is so, even if they do not put it as an amendment, I suppose that, if the independent epidemiologist is wrong, it will not have to cease; the reprobation will be for the lehendakari who sanctioned the decision of the independent epidemiologist. In short, its amendments sum up a hypertechnification of the Basque Government. Technicians must be, and there are. But from that point on, every decision on the management of the pandemic is made by well-known epidemiologists, who, by the way, are not even known how they are chosen, a long stretch goes. It is not that there are no technicians, which, of course, and you know it, Mrs Ubera, there are. I don't care if they're not the ones you want. It is, and this proposal for a law makes it clear, that the technicians should advise the Government, which will ultimately decide on the measures to be taken, as long as the way in which a pandemic is handled is not only based on epidemiological data, but on multiple other variables, such as those of a social, economic nature... which, by the way, epidemiologists, at least from their scientific perspective, do not know how to value. Epidemiologist batek, edozein nobel of her age, arauk Egyptian Gobernuak onartu behar izatia eta lehendakariak Euskal Herriko Agintaritzaren Aldizkarian argitaratzeko sinatu behar izatia, etorkizuneko Gobernu teknifikatua proposedzen du, non herritarrek aukerautakoek ez duten ezer pinatzen. We cannot agree with those proposals, and that is why we do not accept their amendments, by proposing a different law. In addition to the fact that the new law is unacceptable from our political and democratic point of view. By that rule of three, for example, what do you do, Mrs Ubera, and I debating as possessive since October about vaccines, preventive measures, tracing and what I know. Let two independent epidemiologists come, one of your independence and one of mine; let them debate between them. That's right, at the end of the month the salary for you and me, just in case. As we have given it, as we have done, there has been no way of finding a single acceptable amendment. And it is that, I insist, they have submitted another law, not modifications of our proposal. Then there are the amendments tabled by Podemos and PP, groups who have understood our proposal and who have proposed to improve with their amendments. It is true that with Podemos, I have already said, we have been having conversations from time to time, which has led us to accept a majority of them. That, I must acknowledge, improve it in different aspects, such as that of greater relation to the affected sectors and citizenship in guaranteeing labour or assembly rights, as well as in improving many punitive aspects of the law. And I thank you again for the work you've done. Finally, those of PP-Citizens are propositions, many of them with the intention of improving style and writing, some we have accepted and others not. Of those that have other content, many have not been accepted because we cannot admit that we are asking for reinforcements of tracking equipment, mental health equipment, epidemiological surveillance equipment or for a strategic reserve. All of this exists, you know, if you're already in motion for this epidemic, and if you're going to go on for the duration of the epidemic, why ask them in the law, if you are already there. There is also an important package of amendments that correct the preventive measures proposed at the various levels, which have been implemented so far and which, in general terms, have been working, and which we believe should not be corrected. However, we appreciate the proactive position of Popular-Citizens, while they have proposed in positive on our previous proposal, moving away from suggesting, I don't know, rare things or different laws. And this is, in short, our position on the various amendments tabled to our proposal for a law, which have resulted in a paper report in which we agree, announcing – I am not going to spoil it, I suppose – that the amendments that have not been incorporated into the text and that the groups maintain are not going to support them, holding the position defended in the paper and understanding that the final text has improved with regard to the perspectives that we had raised when we tabled this proposal, and that any other amendment would not bring any improvement and would probably confuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answers, Miss Mist, your word is yours, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rico, I see that you do not renew your arguments, that you insist on the same slogans that you usually use. Yes, of course, with pride we defend the centralization of health skills, even more so after the misconceptions of the last 16 months of which you, the Socialists, your partner in Madrid, Podemos, and your partner here, the PNV. And no, don't be mistaken, we're not trying to remove powers from the central government, but on the contrary, we want the alarm levels here to be the same as in Andalusia, Cantabria, the same ones that the WHO advises and the same ones that the Spanish Executive respects. Of course, why are we here today debating this law? We are here because Mr Sánchez preferred the lie to the exercise of his responsibilities, something that no one in this House surprises. He announced a reform of the Public Health Act – it is to assume that in order to silence a very critical public opinion – to then leave his promise in the non-compliance box – at this point he must already have a complete archiver. And, of course, Mr Tellería, our amendments would have liked us not to have to do them, because it would have been a full amendment if we had had the opportunity to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u15	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u16	I am going to refer to a number of issues very briefly because I believe that the positions are clear. To Mr. Rico, simply to point out, I told him in committee, the provision that is introduced in article 24.4, in the last paragraph, is what it is, I have not invented it, and I have not misunderstood it, that "it will not be necessary to ratify the general measures applicable by mandate of this law at each of the levels of alert provided for". We have deleted that paragraph, that sentence, because we believe that, obviously, all measures are subject to judicial ratification and, above all, subject to possible remedies and judicial control, as it could not otherwise be, which is why we missed that reference, and we have deleted it. That is what I meant by the fact that we have re-established judicial control for a possible remedy to the measures that may be taken by this law before the contentious-administrative jurisdiction and the relevant courts. With regard to Galicia's initiative, well, beyond the content, I am not going to enter. Let's see if in the end the law that comes out passed is not Vox and it is going to be the Government of Spain or the Socialist Party at national level. But it is that things have been done very differently in Galicia, Mr. Rico, it has been changed, it has nothing to do with, a law already in force, the Health Act of Galicia, the Law of 2008, therefore, things have been done differently; here things have been done quickly, running, without sufficient guarantees by bringing this text through the groups that support the Government and not a bill, as I said before. With regard to the armored agreement that you have reached with Elkarrekin We can, of course, have no inconvenience in the expansion of the agreements, but here the agreements have widened and we have wanted to look especially at a party. And I have to say that, beyond the amendments – which we have all analysed and I myself have been surprised, because they are amendments that do not have much content – an agreement has been tried because it was playing, an agreement between those parties that have alliances, no longer just in Madrid, but it seems that they have had them and want to have them here. I, in that sense, believe that it would have been more timely, especially with the intention of improving the text of the law, for having made an effort – beyond having accepted us, and I thank you again, those 15 amendments, but of style and grammar – because this law, also this text, suffered from many formal flaws, and with incorrect writings, than beyond thanking them, for, listen, I think it would have been desirable, for having had the opportunity to improve the content of this law, for having paid more attention, I believe, to some of our amendments, which I think were interesting, I say, that is why we widen the agreements, but here it seems that the agreements, even if they are not of much content, are widened with Elkarrekin Podemos. Well, it is an election and you will know what you want with regard to the support that the majority of this Government has, how you want them, in that sense, to expand. In short, and finally, I want to say that a law, an important law, comes into force today, but a law made fast and running, whose processing has been absolutely accelerated. I would like to remind you that it was then remedied, but it was intended to be done without a paper, even, and that that decision had to be amended, and at least a session of the paper and of that paper had to come out of a report. There has been no possibility of having, at least with our group, a calm and in-depth debate on a law of dubious application for its own content and for a limited journey, as has been said here. It is a law that seems to be born dead, considering that the lehendakari has told us that the health emergency situation may fall and that this law is confined to a health emergency scenario. Therefore, the feasibility, the journey of a law that does not have an amparo on which to act and on which to circumscribe its own measures and forecasts, because obviously, the journey, as we can all imagine, is scarce or rather null. It's what there is, it's what has been, it's what there is, it's what seems to be going to be. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u17	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mrs. Hatch, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u18	Thanks again, ma'am. Well, here we have talked about different things, but I would like to see how they are talking about concepts that are in the same degree, I'd like to separate them and give them their places, because they get confused sometimes, and things don't become clear. It has been said of the necessity of this law, of the efficacy of this law, of the survival of this law, and of the value of this law; As to necessity, the greater part of this law has been said to be necessary; This law is necessary. I think, indeed, that all groups have laboured to present their corrections to a law which is not necessary, since it would not be reasonable to correct them. Therefore, let us say this law as a starting-point, it is absolutely necessary. Another question is, whether this law which is required will be effective or not, and perhaps it will not be effective at this moment, and that is something we all hoped for, not to be effective, but this efficacy would remain for the future if necessary. I mean: This law, which is necessary, though not at present effective, does not mean that this law is dead. This law remains alive so long as it is necessary, and if necessary, it will be effective. So it's necessary that he's not effective at the moment, but he's alive. And with that there's value. He has also wanted to remove the value of this law. And I would say that the Εmperor of this law is not now effective, but that the validity of this living law is fundamental. And it has been wished that the changes obtained, the changes obtained on our side, should be removed, but I should like to proclaim that value. This law is no longer opposed to the Constitution, thanks to the corrections made. In this law, and also in the rights made, the criterion of proportionality is established at the time of determining the measures. Based on technical document proportionality. The basic rights are forged, the participation and the transparency are increased and confirmed, and the sanctioning part is relaxed. This is the force of our rights, and its worth, what I would like to proclaim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I am not going to overreact because I believe that the positions and our position in the first intervention have been made clear. I do want to highlight the important consensus with which this law is born, which will count on the vote in favour of 47 of the 75 parliamentarians we are sitting here today. A consensus reached on the basis of the sincere debate and the availability of the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita to agree on a final text containing preventive and health measures and to respond, as I said earlier, to the risk situations that we will face while we are in a health emergency situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. And this is important to highlight, because some groups have wanted to focus part of the debate on the anecdote or asking the question of whether this law would really be necessary, given that at the moment we have a scenario that is evolving favorably and in which we cannot rule out the disappearance of the health emergency situation. And I'm drawn to a number of things. With regard to the anecdote, that if the law collects the compulsoryness of the mask and turns out that it will cease to be compulsory on the outside. Well, yes. But has anyone read this law? Because in the same article that talks about the mask, the possibility is that the health authority can exempt it from its use by adding new exceptions. Well, what I'm wondering is if anyone has read this law, when this assertion is made that has been made. And as to whether this law is necessary in the light of the good data that we are having, it draws my attention, first of all, because if today's data are so good, they are clearly because of the vaccination process, and, curiously, those who are doing this approach now are the ones who have been denouncing the supposed disaster of the vaccination process throughout this legislature, during all these months. What are we left with? The second is that, if we have learned something from this pandemic, although not everyone seems to have learned it too well, it is the volatility of the scenarios and the need for prudence. And I told you in the first intervention, it's very good to come up here and say things, but we, at least we, have an obligation to put forward an effective instrument for that while we achieve the objective of returning to normality and for that in case it turns to scenarios that make that intervention necessary. And I am also curious that this approach comes from PP and EH Bildu. Because of Vox I gave it absolutely for granted. And, by the way, it's not that I don't renew my arguments, it's just that you haven't renewed them since the 36th. Since 36. But he said he was drawing attention to me from the People's Party or EH Bildu, for a number of reasons. In the case of the People's Party, Mrs Garrido, whom I again take advantage of to thank for the attitude you have also maintained in this debate. If this law is born dead and is useless here, I imagine Mr. Feijoo's too. So, it'll be in the same degree, I get it, I get it. I have therefore told you that I simply agree that you allow us to explore our competences and our self-government, as your fellow Members of the People's Party in Galicia have done. I don't ask anymore, but neither do I. And about Mrs. Ubera. Well, for all these months we've been hearing here that we have to get ahead of the pandemic, that we can't trust each other. But it seems that today tells us quite the opposite by saying that this law is born dead by the good data that is being taken. So, what do we have to do? Crush your fingers so it doesn't get any worse? Does that have to be the answer of this Parliament: cross your fingers so that the data does not get worse? What if it's not? For we do what we do is to get ahead of the pandemic today and leave a scenario prepared in case it is still necessary, or at some point it is again necessary. And I make it clear, today a large majority of 47 parliamentarians will vote in favour of this law, out of responsibility. And that responsibility to start exploring a legal scenario does not run counter to the fact that we are the ones who most want it never to start, because that will mean that it improves the situation. And, finally, I want to highlight the dialogue and consensus exercise that has been carried out with the improvements in the included text. The text we adopt today is an attempt to explore our self-government to equip us with instruments if we need them. And together with this, we Socialists will continue to strive to further develop the best instrument we have, which is vaccination. Because today we pass a law here out of responsibility, yes, but no law is going to free us from this virus, none. Vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate. We must all continue to promote this collective success, which is the vaccination process. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rico. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u22	Mrs. Hatch: This law, no. We don't need this law, we need another law. But yes, we need a law. This law is not a law; it is a regulation, without entering into the content. So she's born limited. Look, this law is based on the state of alarm and of health. Those are the frames. So, one: Are we in the alarm situation? No. This law, therefore, is annulled. Are we in health trouble? Yeah. But Mr. Urkullu said that in 15 to 20 days, he'll be able to derog his health attack. So, what's left for us? Pandemia won't disappear, will she? What's left for us? It is, therefore, what we need to do, and the para ese "por si acaso" y para actución plexible is what we need to make a solid structure, and the tools to make rules from that, and to adapt themselves to the situation, and, above all, to prevent it. I said it plainly: be careful. And forgive me, we're not going anywhere except with the vaccine, but we must take other measures, but this government has refused to take these measures. This law, therefore, is already abolished, because it is placed in the state of alarm, in the state of health, and then what? And then what? Then we need tools outside the health attack, and we have to make a strong structure for ourselves to adapt. And that's what this government hasn't shown. A little short, very stiff. This is rigid, this is a regulation. And to have a regulation, is to have its limits. Begira, I will read to you Article 2: "The articles of this law that include containment measures of the VOCID-19 pandemic will be in force as long as the health emergency declaration contained in Article 4 of the law is in force." And then what? And then what happens? And then, Mr. Rico, over and over again, that we haven't read the law and 20th, the article of the shell, that the sanitary authority eliminates it. No, he does not say that; he places exceptions in particular cases. But it doesn't. So, yeah, 20. the article, the 23rd, the isolation and quarantine, will soon be cancelled. What kind of tools does this law give? Nothing. And then you tell us all over and over again, and I don't understand, you tell us that these are the corrections of the law. It is only with our contributions when it is restored to the character of the law, and when we give it stability, and give it tools, and suppleness and openness. And besides, when we plan to strengthen the administration structure. Then we are also told that we remove the political Labi from the middle of the line, and deprive him of his political character. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We followed the 1/2017 law. It's not a law of encouragement or emergency sanctioned by EH Collect. And this law says what kind of emergency structure is. That's it. We didn't make anything up, and we didn't get into any special sauce. You've created another parallel structure. And what we do is, in the law, we give Labi a nature, we determine the organization. That's right, according to the pandema's emergency emergency, we're giving the director a hand in accordance with the state of health to get some experts or other, because there, too, we're going to need a flexibility. Then the government tried to do it from the very beginning of panic, seeing the situation in which the parliament was, to encourage a political table, and to work with the agents. In our law, too, in order to penetrate into democracy and cognizant, we balance the municipal posts; we form a space in the legislature, and so on. His view of the government in making this law has also been his ruin. It is determined that the conduct of a judge should be answered, limited, and not directed from a medical point of view, to give answers to the people. Even if it's true, as Mr. Tellegio said on the front board, it must be economical measures and other areas. And the experts don't know that. Politics know that. But the OMS independent panel has cleared its evaluation. It is very clear that the countries which have failed have been those who have tried to balance, and those which have not been health. And the economy has improved by the default health, and it has improved even in other parts. And that is the corruption that has been through the whole pandemy. The focus, the focus. It must be a virus, and not a virus. It has been a pity that the loss of months and months may be our tools, our measures, and our means to be prepared for the end of the alarm; for the alarm condition must be an exception, the least possible condition, for the collective and individual rights to make the least possible impression. And while we're doing it, we have to get ready. And for this purpose the work of the house has not been done. Government is limited to the easiest, and afterwards it has its consequences. As to the agreement of the Podemos, this agreement has very little to do with this proposition of law. And I say with all due respect, you haven't entered any content, they're just shades. It seems to be an agreement in other criteria, which is lawful. And I respect her with all due respect, but you mentioned her...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u24	That he respects the Constitution. You have made no contribution from the law view. "You say that you have brought in a lightening of penalties, but you have taken away your own obedience; you have kept all the rest. Content has not been present. Those corrections which brought the quantum leap in the content are those which are excluded, and then we vote and we assent to them. For here it is not important to be corrected, but here the content is important, and to agree with the best content, and then to give the people the best answers possible. And it's a pity that we've lost a chance, because we've lost a chance to prepare the present and the future to prepare.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours. Mr. TELLERAS: Thank you, ma'am. I've said it all before, but good. That if the law is born dead, that if the masks... It seems that the mask is the essential key to this law. The mask is one more element. Another thing is that socially it has become the symbol of a pandemic, which we all see half-faced, but it is not important. And in any case, we'll see which mask is left at the end, where we can take it off. We'll see about that. Now, that does not mean that we still find that criterion from the central government to put a law without counting or equaling everyone, when we are in 111, Galicia in 40, Andalusia is already 180... We're not all equal, and everyone must have to make their decisions. And this law is well-articulated. As long as the emergency lasts, keep the mask there. That is why, in any case, I insist again, I hope this law will not be applied. We'd all be so much better. We'd have a law in store. It would have been an exercise in making a law, in making a pact with one another and with another, and we didn't apply it. Why? Because there's no pathology. Phenomenal. That would be phenomenal; it would be the best news I'd have. The rest are all anecdotes. And look, Mrs Ubera, it's that your amendments, I insist again, are another law. It is a proposal divided into partial amendments which you like to call proposals, and let me say it at once, are occurrences. Events, which is different; look at the Royal Dictionary of the Academy. They are also occurrences of the moment, because someone has told you something, read information in a newspaper about what has been done by another country, another region, a village, which seems to have gone well. He brought us here France, New Zealand, Finland, Burma, Korea... We have made pandemic tourism; in that sense we have made pandemic tourism. But he has not set himself in Euskadi, in our social reality, in our sociology, in our economy, in how we really are. I don't care what the South Koreans or the Burmese are like; I care how we are here, and how we behave here and how we make rules to adapt them to how we are here. A year ago, at the call for elections, when on June 24th, today's Saint John's Day, the incidence in Euskadi was 6.99 per 100,000, 6.99, you and your colleagues were shouting around that the lehendakari was going to kill the voters, and I don't even tell those who were at the polling stations. Today, on the 16th of this month, when the incidence was 138 per 100,000, you asked in commission for us to remove our masks. Okay. If in December you trade with us to test at pharmacies only when the public health system is overflowing, and the pharmacies are prepared and connected with Osakidetza, so that you will be informed of the positives from a centralized and coordinated system, in April we come with each citizen being given two tests a week, and that they themselves, if they are positive, are self-proclaimed positives in an ad hoc app. The same is true of a PNL for citizens to put on the vaccine they want and in all cases to sign an informed consent, which they ask to put on AstraZeneca and not to sign anything. Look, it's the model... I will tell you in Latin: arrimen asquam sardinen propriam, which is to look until I find something that seems curious and timely, and then – above all contrary to what the government does, too – to then propose it as if it were a generous contribution to improving the management of the pandemic, when in reality it is an "occurrence" to poison the environment. If the government makes "a", you propose "b". Imagine that the lehendakari, in two weeks' time, as you say, removes the health emergency: you're going out saying it's not right. Don't take it off: you're going to say you have to take it off. I'm sure. Look, in the background, so much going to Madrid, that they are enjoying it very much – too much, I'm worried – they have learned the worst that works there: destructive opposition and indivicord with the government, criticizing do whatever it does. And they have decided to lead that opposition style here in Euskadi with whom they have allied themselves with those who have brought it much learned already. Look, all you have to do is look at yourself and see yourself today in the polls, with whom you are going to oppose this law. And so we carry the whole pandemic, doing, while you try not to let it do, despite what, thank God, the government does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u26	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. End of discussion, we'll start our vote. First, we're going to vote for the Mysto Groups reserved corrections made on the articles of the judgment. Here, two teams, we vote in two sets: First set: 2, 4, 5, 6, 10, 15, 17. 18, and 32 corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 42; votes given, 75; in favour 1, 74; indefs, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u27	So they didn't accept it. Next, 20. We'll vote for the corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 7; the opponents are 68; the abstentions, 0; white, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u28	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote for the articles of action reserved by the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. Here too, we'll make two teams: In the first group, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 36, 37, 42, 52, 56, 59, 82, 84, 85, 86 and 87 corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; the Absences, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u29	So they didn't accept it. In the second group, we vote for all the others or all the others. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 42; votes given, 75; in favour 6; in the contrary, 63; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u30	So they didn't accept it. Next, together with the reserved corrections of the Podemos-IU teams, made for the articles of judgment. Here, we have three teams: So, first vote, correction 5. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 48; the abstentions are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u31	So it's not accepted. Next up, the second team, we'll vote for eight and nine corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the oppositions are 42; the abscesssions are 6; white ones; 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u32	They weren't allowed. Team 3: 65, 67 corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 42; votes given, 75; in favour 6; the contrary is 69; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u33	So they didn't accept it. Next, we vote the corrections of the EH Collectors, the corrections reserved to the article of judgment. There are also two teams here: the first team, from 1 to 7th, from 9 to 20th, 23, 26 to 65 and 72. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 21; the contrary is 48; the abstainers are 6; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u34	They weren't allowed. And next we vote for eight, 21, 22, 24, 25 to 71. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 42; the contrary is 42; the abstations are 12. white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u35	So they didn't accept it. The articles of rectification with correction are then agreed together; that is to say, from 1 to 4.7 to 11.1, 13 to 15, 19 to 32, from 34 to 42, the first alternate and transitory regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conferences are 42; 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 28; the oppositions are 28;0; white,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u36	So they're accepted. The articles that have not been corrected together are agreed upon; that is to say, 5, 6, 12, 16 to 18, 33, 43, and 3. additional regulations and the last regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conferences are 42; 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 28; the oppositions are 28;0; white,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u37	So they're accepted. And finally, they vote together, he says, the explanation and the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conferences are 42; 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 28; the oppositions are 28;0; white,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u38	So the law and the explanation that he said have been accepted. And therefore the Law of managing the Pandemy of COVID-19 is allowed. Second point on the subject list: "Mution, introduced together by you as members of the Podemos-IU team, concerning the policy of cooperation in development. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Martinezlin, your word is to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u39	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. We have this motive today; it is strictly connected with the chief physician of the Artola vasts, and we will not talk about Burmania and school, but about certain things which concern us in the nation. We said that we had a strong policy of cooperation in our interactions, which has two special factors. In a way, history. On the other hand, the solid character of the Basque Country, and also the law of cooperation in 2007. We didn't see any need of a new law, even in the interpelation we said that, but this law will come, it's settled in the government plan. And, in fact, we want to put some work on the government's house from us in the process of this law, and we want to discuss our proposals at the beginning in the legislature. Law 14/2007 was born of the political consensus, the social consensus, also driven by the work of that Government and my political formation in particular, and it is a law that no one questions, there is no social debate against that law, but there is a consensus on the importance of development, to maintain and, if possible, expand some aspects of that legislation. The Act highlights the importance of NGOs as a key player in international cooperation, i.e. the fundamental role of civil society, both Basque and organised civil society in the countries of the South, in the development of international cooperation policies. Horrexegatik esaten dugu beharrezkoa de la kontsensu horiek tentzea éta kontsensu horiek zabaltzea. The importance of DNGOs and decentralized cooperation is a subject that is based on this law, as I said, with DNGOs as main actors and civil society as the main actor in a model that has already been defined in some of the texts as a model of public-social and public-community collaboration, which we bet to deepen. In theory, and in what is now in force in the law, it is a very advanced law and it has a very clear budgetary commitment in its second provision. And today we again denounce, June 2021, so many years later, that this commitment is not being fulfilled by the Basque Government. And, therefore, it is one of the main demands that must be within the new text, the budgetary compliance with the provision of Law 14/2007, that is, 0.7% of the budget. Ezinbastekoa iruditzen zaigu, huta ére, koherentzia-politiken garrantzia age koherentzia-politiken garapena. To reverse what that maxim, which Galeano said, that development had often developed was inequality. Precisely for this it is essential to develop policy coherence, not only in international cooperation, but in the overall action of the Government. Besides, we think it's essential to start a part of the process. We know that the company agency is picking up different sectors, but we think we need to make it bigger and we need to find consensus and agreements in that part of the process. In that sense, we introduced this interpelation to the Chief of Artola generouss. And in that sense, we have a deal with the teams of EAJ and Sociists in EH Shade, and we hope also, with PP-Ciudadans' protection. And at the moment I want to thank you for the position of all the teams, because our intention was to find a political consensus from the beginning. Funtsean, akordio honetan betebehar batzuk, exeko lan batzuk, bidaltzen dizkiogu Gobernuari, eta lege hau no la garatu behar den. The first would be to promote political and social work and consensus in order to develop the new law on cooperation. We need a strong public policy of development cooperation, which is not subject to political vagaries and with strong commitments that make it viable, to emerge from this process. Secondly, we make a confession of the law of 2017 in this motion and medium. The importance of this law, in order to develop its importance in the politics of solidarity and cooperation, is introduced in this medium. Un reconcimito del papeltral de las ONGD errorllo del model de cooperación internaclida y decentriada que hacemos deskita, y un compromiso irunciable al 0.7%. And, moreover, as it could not otherwise be in a process of new law, address the current challenges we have in the development model, which I quoted earlier. Y el cuarto, the aim of cooperation policy must be to change the model of development. The 2030th Agenda must be discussed, and also the coherence of human rights and their consistencys, by means of the consistency of the coherent characters, the importance of the consistencys; they are indispensable to change the pattern. Baita was a beast such as batzuen, Nationalisten eta Sozialisten taldeen ekarpenekin bildu ditugu ekarpen hauek guztiak, eta baita ére EH Bildu taldeak egindako ekarpenekin. Fundamentally, a point that is introduced, which is a historical demand of the NGODs, that is to speed up the bureaucratic processes that they have to suffer and suffer or suffer or suffer – according to whom you ask – to develop the projects; and this is not only a matter of preference for project management, but it is also a subject that has a special relevance in terms of the effectiveness of development aid. So we're happy here today, we have a deal. Again, I confirm that we're ready to work. We regard these points as starting point. In these respects we must consider the several political sects, the several parlamentary groups. And above all, with society, with OKGDs, with unions, with social agents. And if this is done, then we shall have a successful law, otherwise we shall have a bad process. So we encourage the government to do this trial and try this new law in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u40	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseowner, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u41	Thank you, and good day to all. Considering the Sisthemic crisis of our day, it is more necessary than ever to claim a wager for eroscal cooperation and development. Coworker must be the instrument of society to promote co-operation and development, to promote peace and development throughout the world. And we are convinced that this development must be produced from the paradigm of human development and continuity. Coincidence policy must be public society, which has a stable and permanent character. And for this, international solidarity and political will based on social justice are indispensable. Coherence also is indispensable. If we look from a coherent point of view, we shall have a range of reference and criteria, so that the pretty parts of many parts may avoid the negative consequences which they produce in other countries. The Basque Act of collaboration 2007 was a landmark in the police. He got a great social consent, but 13 years later he's still undeveloped as a whole. One of the essential elements of the law is that of the budget, as has been said, the amount of a complete budget made so famous. We believe that it is the indispensable foundation to set up public policy releases and transformers. Unfortunately, as has been said, it has not been accomplished for all these years, and we are going to hand over the engagement to this law to-day. Coincidence politics are social policies, and therefore restrictives of this kind produce social hardships, which give rise to causes which tend to transform the society of the Basque Country or of the world. So today, we point out a few points, or we want to point out, from this medium agreement we've come to. Number one: Today we announce that we must direct the co-herent and compromising policies for the development of public administration. We understand co-working as a stable public policy, and we believe that it must be strengthened and executed together with the institutions of organized civil society; it is necessary to encourage consistency. We shall leave this day with the commitment to the fundamental compacted and incomplete steps which the Euscal law of development has assumed. Besides this, we would like to remark today that we should also remind ourselves of the letter of Justice, and Solidarity of the poor and poor countries, as another fundamental instrument to the coherence of the beautiful. We believe that from the Basque Country we need the default model to be supported in confidence and alliance between agents. In respect of the autonomy of each administration, we require that it should be a law to choose between the townships, the forts, and the hierophants; and, above all, to combine the specific personality of the disorganized esecration of the euccany, and to combine the administrative methods. After all, we are here to propose to ourselves the means of deburcratization, and to suppose facility. In this world, we would like to remark that it is essential to be a feminist view for development and other pretty things. We place it as a sphere for the integral analysis of Eucala, considering the intersecrational point of view. Above all, we will attempt to resist the machista of violence, or to strengthen sexual and refractory rights and conditions of well-being. The second most important idea is that we have often said that we ought to unite new social agents to the development of development. By confessing the central paper of foreign governments, we have distinguished from the Basque Country, the disorganized euccany of Esscal, and above all, with the cooperation of social and academic institutions, we confess and insist that all the work which the institutions have done is done by the institutions of society; and we are talking about making a place in the law to those who are working at it. The third most important idea: the budget's commitment to the entire budget is 0.7%. The budget designed to create critical citizens will be indispensable to being more and more permanent in proportion as the budget is applied to the police. Political investigation, political influence, sensibilization, education-producing or arcticulation will be strengthened in this new strategy, which breaks the north/hego with logic and includes new subjects such as social movements. And the fourth most important idea: we must have the proper education to transform society. It is evident, that the inhabitants of the United States are already working from the Basque Country, and in foreign countries, in other directions between what they are doing, and what they do. We're going to favor the international cooperation that aims to break and arrange these dichotomys and to create the critical mobilized citizenship. Euscal Society to promote sensibilisation and social transformation. After all, I want to end this, because it's a work for development, it's the focus of the middle-class work today. Consciousness is co-worker for development, i.e. independence, formization, and it is what the agreement of the various parties contributes to. Here, in this legislature, we are engaged in a process of education for a continual change of society; The facts, the discussions, the forms, the speeches that are offered us here, and we here, by the consistency of the pretty ones we should offer there. So today, I want to end up thanking everyone who's working on the streets, offices, international missions, all the members who have visitors. Because we did it because of them, we're gonna be able to hope with them, we're gonna get 2021-22 continents. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u43	Thank you, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'm going to be very brief, because I want to announce that I'm joining the agreement. I believe that the whole amendment that we are presenting, logically, is part of the approach taken by the compromise amendment. We spoke as a general element, because I believe that when we speak and see the recommendations, what the Euskadi NGO coordinator tells us in relation to the things to be done, I believe that these recommendations can also mark a pattern within what is the path of agreement, consensus, agreement on new lines, new keys, new transformation elements also of an element such as development cooperation, which are interesting, so I see reflected, of course, my amendment, the amendment of my group, People-Citizens, within the agreement reached and the compromise. My group has always worked in this House to strengthen the keys to development cooperation from government structures. It has always done so and we have done so decisively and effectively and with recognition that they have been good ideas. We have done so in this House repeatedly in budgetary negotiations, there they are, or we have also done so in the motions for resolutions of the strategic planning guidelines discussed in December 2017. They are general guidelines of the Multiannual Strategic Planning 2018-2021 of Development Cooperation, which were prior to what was then the master plan, that is, those motions for resolutions said very specific issues, they also said issues, along the lines of what this compromise amendment also presents in relation to the philosophy of development cooperation, but it also made very concrete proposals in relation to the improvement and economic increase for that plan, that multi-annual programme until 2021. That is to say, in that sense, we have to say that experience, and our work, has been there, and that is why we feel well entitled to demand an effort also from the Government, an effort to strengthen such cooperation, cooperation as a sign of identity, a sign of historical identity in the Basque Country, a sign of historical identity, cooperation for development, well, it can now be led by certain government agencies or public spheres or by the Government itself. Before it was led by some non-governmental organizations, or before it was led by the Church, but it has always been exemplary, it has always worked and has to continue to do so. The crisis has made certain steps back in some public efforts, but well, in any case, I believe that that maintenance or that sign of identity, which is ours, because I believe that in the new process of forming a law it has to be there and it has to be noted, that is, also, other normative instruments have also been well collected, assumed, have served as a reference to other regulations of other autonomous communities or other places, that is to say that in that sense I believe that this effort has to be there, so I am grateful for the interest and motion presented by Mr Martínez, because it logically means that we are concerned, before the drafting of the law, that this law is done well, and we want to participate, among all, we want to participate. Today is the time and time for cooperation and collaboration, and to do so, in addition, among many more actors than before, many more organizations, many more governments, many more structures receiving cooperation funds, many more international organizations in many areas, that is, in that sense, there is a much broader structure, so we must be thinner, we must be smarter, we must be better on this issue too, because there are many more possibilities and the use of structures that are there to make cooperation much more effective. Today the new keys to cooperation are there, we are not going to discover anything, because, apart from, in the search for transparency the fundamental thing, but that in all public policies, are the objectives, as has already been said, of the 2030 Agenda, the coherence of policies, the most basic of all that are human rights, the frameworks of collaboration in many areas, local, state, international, to achieve that greater effectiveness. It is therefore appropriate to modernise the current legislation, and it is appropriate to do so taking into account the work on which non-governmental organizations are already working; many of them have had the opportunity during all these years in the Basque Parliament, for the good work we have also been able to do in teams in some areas, to know them on the spot and at work and to know the work of non-governmental organizations or so many people who are part of those structures and who have also understood how to improve. That is why what we were referring to with those recommendations, those structures, those people who have worked on foot in a very effective way, have understood how to improve on also normative keys, surely, or on government action keys, administrative or bureaucratic procedures or processes – we often already know how they are – models of cooperation, characterization of solidarity, collaboration with other actors, as I said before. Well, those are the key elements. We understand that the compromise amendment contains the basic element, a prerequisite for what the process of drafting the law has to be. And that is why we will support the compromise amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u44	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Egun where you're going. Good morning, everyone. Good. I believe that what is appropriate today is to begin by recognizing that in Euskadi, indeed, we have an extensive and solid track record in development cooperation and that, for that reason, Basque cooperation is internationally recognized at all levels. This is what the Euskadi NGO Coordinator points out in her document Reflections on the Proposal for Change of the Basque Law on Cooperation. And it is evident from the abundant external evaluations carried out in programmes and projects that point to important successes, with objectively verifiable indicators. On the basis of this document, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos, Mr Martínez, brings to debate today this motion for a policy of development cooperation, which is the result of the inquiry which was indeed supported in the full control of about 15 days ago, in particular in the plenary of 11 June last. In this inquiry, indeed, and at first, Mr Martínez was referring to the central idea of the absence of urgency or necessity in order to proceed with the reform of the cooperation law of 2007, arguing that the law currently in force was the result of a great political consensus and that in fact there had not been sufficient objective circumstances of an entity to justify its modification. But the truth is that at the end, well, at the end of his speech, he came to make an express recognition, or at least let's say more convinced, about the need to update it. That, he pointed out expressly, with the aim of strengthening cooperation policies, and above all with the political and social consensus that the previous law gave rise to. And above all on the basis of issues that have to do with public policy coherence and also alignment with the 2030 Agenda. Both the tone of the course of the interpellation and the tone of the Councillor's response allowed us to affirm, and allowed us to suspect, and also, of course, to affirm, that it is much more, much more, which unites us than what separates us, and that with these limbs it was to expect a motion that would allow the majority agreement of all the parliamentary groups, as it has been. In this respect, I believe that it is indeed up to all groups to congratulate and thank them for their willingness and willingness and their ability to reach agreement, because we have managed not only to reach a broad agreement, but also to add, in this case, a favourable vote, which will ultimately define that this whole Parliament stands unanimously. What we believe, ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group, is that it has indeed been 14 years since the 2007 law was passed, and the world in which we live has changed a great deal, has changed a great deal, and it is therefore desirable that we adapt our accompanying step to the pace of change. The context in which we move is also changing, is dynamic, is volatile. And, obviously, it is asking us all to find and implement transformative measures in search of sustainable and inclusive human development. I think that's where we all agree, obviously. We also need an ambitious system of cooperation that responds to global challenges and promotes policy coherence for sustainable development. A cooperation that is feminist, ecological, that, with the citizenry, strengthens its presence in local areas elsewhere on the planet and a cooperation, ultimately, that responds effectively also to humanitarian emergencies. Everyone says it, say, the actors. And I believe that everyone, I believe that in this there is no doubt, we share this vision and agree, in the end, on the need to create a new regulatory framework that will allow us to better face and with more tools those realities and challenges that not only pose us the future, but also the present that is touching us to live. And I believe that we are in a position to certainly expect the Government to send us a bill in line with those commitments, with those approaches, which come, as I said, from human rights, ecology, feminism, humanitarian action, decentralized work, education for global citizenship, in order to ultimately have transformative cooperation that contributes to the goal of social justice. From the Socialist Group, of course, we hope so. And not only because it was stated and confirmed by Councilwoman Artolazabal in her speech, but because, moreover, it is a shared commitment of the groups that we support the Government and that is strictly reflected in the government agreement for this legislature. And those agreements, what they do is precisely make it clear that we align ourselves – alienated is another issue – with the 2030 Agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals. And we note that cooperation policy can no longer be understood only as a specialized area of action, but as a very important part, as a global development strategy from an approach, we repeat, always of human rights and of policy coherence for development. Indeed, the whole cooperation policy must be applied to all the actions of the Basque Government and a new legal framework must therefore be made essential, corresponding and responsive to the current scenario and to the way in which the Basque administration itself must promote development policies in order to articulate decentralized cooperation. A number of commitments are made. If you have had the opportunity to read the government agreement, perfect, but I am going to transfer some of you, among other things, because there is someone who expressly shields, guarantees a budgetary commitment – also said Mrs Artolazabal in her speech – and shields 0.7. We know what has happened to 0.7, indeed, but this is also armored and we have included it in this amendment. It also strengthens the capacities of DNGOs and promotes commitment and alliances between new development actors, as Mr Barrio mentioned. I have already talked about policy coherence, I have already talked about the commitment to education for social transformation, whose central axis, of course, also insists on accompanying citizens to promote critical thinking and social and individual commitment, and the commitment to the quality, impact and evaluation of all policies in this regard. So, all these issues, beyond some personal appreciations – error with the fat mask this one – apart from some personal appreciations, I believe, are issues that appeal to us all directly, that we have all assumed as our own and that are perfectly reflected in the signed transactional amendment, and form a unanimous consensus achieved in this initiative. And this consensus, ladies and gentlemen, has something very important, and it has a very important value in itself because, in the end, a paraphrase will have to be made in this regard. They do not allow us to show that there are times when in this Parliament we are making a policy of cooperation for the development of important agreements and consensuses, and then we are making some progress. What I think is that it would be interesting if it were much more often, but, finally, as Joan Manuel Serrat would say, glory to God in the heights that is Saint John.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u47	Mrs. President, Vice President, chief of the Artola generouss, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Yeah, we're facing a preventive motive this evening. I'll read the engagement by word: "The consistency of the pretty things for Garment to promote in the general area of the government police. And I order you to make this commitment a new law of cooperation for development." Mr Martínnez, as you know, we keep our word. In our election program, in the government camp and in the legislative calendar, we ordered a change of law. And we will obey the order. And you know, and you said we're gonna do it. As you know, the head of the business agency and I, together with each other, have had meetings with the parliamentary teams in order to share their plans, their ends, and my procedures. You, Mrs. Artola generous, the chief physician, before you presented the engagement, had the meeting with you, as well as with all the other groups. So you already knew the chief physician's intention, his ends, his procedures, his honesty of discussion and agreement. We're planning to share a new law process and follow a member of it. As you know, we're sharing this plan with foreign government institutions, the academy, and the political teams. But yet you wanted to introduce the motion. Obviously, it's a preventive motive. You said in your speech to the Counsellor last Friday, and you repeated today, that from your point of view there is neither urgent nor necessary reform of the law. And it is legitimate for you to think that, but I remind you that the Basque Nationalist Party presented itself to the elections with an electoral programme that included the reform of this law. And I remind you that everyone received the trust we received, and I assure you that our program commits us to citizenship. The same is true of the government's programme, which is presented to this Parliament, and which has its majority confidence. The legislative timetable for the second half of 2021 commits it to the adoption of the bill. The bill will therefore be introduced. We are going to keep the word given and we are going to respond to the confidence received, and the procedural moment of the in-depth debate on the law will come in due course. We will discuss its objectives, instruments and policies, and we will do so with a constructive will, with the aim of strengthening the central and positive aspects of our cooperation, with the aim also of identifying the areas of improvement observed in these 20 years of Basque cooperation experience that exist, like the meigas, with the aim of continuing to apply the evaluation and continuous improvement. Professor Koldo Unceta's report on the Basque law of cooperation that you know provides clearly and forcefully the reasons that make the reform of the law necessary and that we share. I highlight seven reasons: One: Law 1/2007 on Cooperation does not fit the global challenges of the present time and has limited approaches to policy coherence for development. Two: the international scene has changed. You recognized him yourself in the interpellation. And our commitment must go beyond the transfer of funds. Funding is required, yes. But something more is needed: exchange of experiences, mutual learning. Three: the current law promotes a demand model, which Professor Unceta defines as a demand model, which limits the active participation of administrations and other non-specialized agents of society, and limits the possibility of establishing a public policy of cooperation, which Mrs Etxebarrieta demanded, and which I fully share. Four: the law does not capture the potential of decentralized cooperation that can and must identify the assets of society. Five: the law contains a questionable and confusing distinction between typologies, modalities and instruments of cooperation. Six: The law sets out a definition of priorities, both sectoral and geographical, that are more appropriate to planning than to law. And seven: the law gives little relevance to important issues, such as accountability, transparency, evaluation or continuous learning. Only these are reasons for updating, moving forward and improving. And it's unquestionable, yes. And we do not question that Basque cooperation has taken a long journey until it became a successful example of decentralized cooperation. But in order to maintain that reference character and to further improve, we must undertake, and this is what we are doing, a process of adaptation and innovation. Look, Mr. Martinez, I know your fears. I don't share them, but there they are. They're not new. They have accompanied Basque cooperation since its inception. It is, in part, the fears of those who have built our model of cooperation. Fear of altering the status quo. And I say to them, There is no place to fear anything. This bill is not born against anyone. Their mission is to improve a model that we consider valuable. And its goal is to work out the maximum consensus. And that is precisely why it has been so easy to reach a transaction today. That is why, and something else, because we share the main objectives in relation to building a better world. But also, and I will say this in these days when showing feelings in public can lead one to the qualification of babe, for personal reasons, because, Oihana, Iñigo, Carmelo, Miran, we have already dedicated a few horites, out of focus, to work these themes, to share these reflections, to share those desires, those utopias, sometimes, and because that, and some time also of vallenate, of cumbia in The Blue Whale, what I recommend to the rest of parliamentary companions, helps a lot in the elaboration of these consensuses. And that is why I want to show that feeling, even at the risk of being called babe, to tell you that for me they are very pleasant, very rewarding all those hours that I have shared with you, that you have made me, I think, be better person, better parliamentarian, and be able to present this agreement with satisfaction today. Erdibidekoak berak, barkatu... It's what you have to show your feelings in public. He said there's no place to fear anything. I hope and hope that this agreement will be the preamble to what we can build in the future around the law. Today was a wide, easy middle space. It's clear that we all agree. What's done is a good point. The middle man himself proclaims: "You know, it's like, "You know, it's like, "You know, it's like, "You know, it's like, "You know, it's like, "I don't know. No, it's like, "You know, "You know, it's crazy," no... "He joins with the will to push and cultivate as much political and social consent as he can, in order that the process of the new law of cooperation may end successfully, and support one that is not dependent on solid, stable, and political circumstances." Now, we ask you to continue to consider the long and strong course of the euscalal cooperation, including the principal and positive aspects of today's law, including the goal of 0.7%. But with this, and at the same time, all the new challenges of the present day, and all the potentialities which were not received in their time, must also be considered as the participation of new agents among them. And all this will come to strengthen the work of foreign governments. I'm done. I do it by pointing out the important thing. That is, the five objectives we pursue and want to share with the reform. One, addressing new global challenges: climate crisis, deepening inequality, health crisis, migration and mass displacement, lack of gender justice or digital transition, among others. Two, strengthen Euskadi's commitment to a disinterested society and to an organized and active society. Three, to consolidate a new institutional architecture that improves coherence and co-responsibility among Basque actors in favour of inclusive sustainable human development. Four, expand the base of mobilization of the solidarity resources of Euskadi, citizenship, NGOD, institutions and new social actors and institutions involved. Five, move towards the policy coherence model for sustainable development, deploy the new law from the administrations themselves, and also within them. We agree to a great challenge. It's no small challenge to build a world more just and more solid. We agree that we must proceed in the way of agreement and neighbourhood. And today's agreement offers us a solid basis. Our intention and will in the future is to continue to spread and strengthen these agreements. This is our commitment, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u48	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing on the answers turn, he doesn't have to take a word, the jungle... Mr. Barrio, Gallarástegui... [[Berber]] End of discussion, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzurz, Euska Socialists, EH Collectors, and the Middle Amendment signed by Euzists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0; 0; 0,0; 0,0; 0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u49	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mution, introduced to the popular group of Laura Garrido Knörres, a member of the Ciudadans, a member of the legislature of the party, who have great dependence and/or a great disability to put on the minors in a state of misery or health. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mrs Garrido, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. President, head physician of the Medical Department. We introduced this lot because we saw that RedMork didn't do his job here. And in this respect, we thought it best to examine this subject, and so we directed an interpelation to the head of the health department, and then introduced the motion. We submit an inquiry into the vaccination of large dependents over 12 years of age who are not institutionalized, are grade III dependents. They are children with very severe disabilities. Children who have behavioral, behavioral problems. Children who can't do anything on their own. Kids who can't wear masks. Children who are an important vector of contagion. And in that regard, we have always asked the adviser on this issue in the relevant committees, because she seemed to us to be a very vulnerable group, capable of attending to vaccinations. In relation to the strategies that set out and set out the recommendations for the vaccination of different groups, and to the detriment – as we have always said – of the specific competences that each autonomous community has to plan for a vaccination process. And so, too, we have often urged this government to develop that specific vaccination plan, to know within each group which groups could be included, following those recommendations of the national strategy. And I say this because already, clearly, in the seventh strategy of 11 May, it is possible to vaccinate those older than 12 years who are in these situations. And that is why we understand, especially from that date, because it is true that there has been some change in criteria before, but of course, from that date onwards there was already a permit for children to be vaccinated in these situations, provided that the European Medicines Agency authorised the corresponding vaccines, which was so done, on 28 May. We have had knowledge, we have had the opportunity to follow this case for many situations we know, and a vaccination of the group of these children is taking place in such a vulnerable situation, in an absolutely exceptional way, without a general criterion, that we did not understand. And that's what we asked the counselor: that we didn't understand that, especially given the ability and the possibility of already immunizing these children in this situation, children – I repeat – large dependents older than 12 years not institutionalized, were not immunized. Not only to them, but to their caregivers, who are mostly their parents, and they were being done with an absolutely arbitrary criterion, especially based on the pressure that was being exerted, with calls, and when there was a lot of insistence on calls, in the end they agreed to vaccination. Well, obviously, I am told, by a member of the Basque Nationalist group, that this situation was being remedied, as a result of the formulation of this inquiry. And well, we understand it's being like this. I have no news, except that the spokesmen of the groups supporting the Government tell me otherwise, that all these children and caregivers who, as I say, are preferably their parents have already been vaccinated, but I know they are in it. I, in that sense, do want to thank the fact that this situation has finally been dealt with. I told the counselor to look into the eyes of the children and families of these children, in the middle of two weeks ago, because I thought it was a situation that had to be dealt with, it was a situation of justice, and they are, moreover, very delicate situations and which have a serious emotional impact on families. As I say, it's being like this, I don't know if all the vaccinations are over, but, well, you're on it. And, therefore, I believe that in the end both our initiative and the constant pressures and calls to address the situation of these children and families have been constant. In the end they seem to have had their echo, and in that sense I will withdraw the initiative. I'm going to withdraw the initiative. Yes, it is true, Madam Counsellor, that we hope that the completion of vaccination of these children in this situation and the families will be completed as soon as possible. And I'm telling you, we understand that it had to have happened a long time ago, but, well, things have been like that and, in that sense, we withdraw our initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u51	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. As I'm about to promise, I'm going to go round the teams who've submitted the corrections, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mr. Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u52	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning. Well, I'll try to do it a little quickly, but I think we should start talking back, or I'd like to go back a little, because this pandemy has put on the table the best of us, the best things as society, and the best things in the hands of rulers, but even the worst. I should like to praise the best of the best, by a little rescregation, in the most difficult situations, how the answers and nets were arranged, and how they were articulated. The young men began to meet in a spontaneous way and to respond to the most vulnerable of society, and to a certain active civil society (... ), they had it to arrange. Because I think it's terribly positive and, I think today, we should be thinking about them. And the really necessary economic sectors sat down on the table, don't they? I'd like to place all those shopkeepers, farmers, reponetors, all those prestors of scientists on the table today. And those filthy hands, those dirty hands that are often dirty, became like a broken hand in the room, because of the health. And that taught us who's got the world's burden. This pandemia has shown us that the burden of the world is accompanied by women, emigrants, and those which are not seen, and the consequences of this pre-commitative system. And it has also revealed to us what is really important: health, life together, care, society, cohesion, and science. Because science brought us the vaccine, and we're seeing the end of this tunnel through the vaccine. But, on the other hand, this pandemia has brought us all the wrong things, and there is among them the fatigue of society, the answers which result from this fatigue. By using these answers, the ultra right hand, the power acquired by fascism with simple lies and messages. And among the worst, even yesterday, the editor of the Amnistya International, who gave us the news of the non-determinated division in the world to respond to this pandemy. I mean, it's not even %1 of vaccine to the southern countries of the world. And among the worst things, I would like to mention the position of our political authorities. Yesterday, as I was going home from Gastéiz, I heard on the radio a diver, a science offender, working at Redes's program, followed by Punset's, and I listened to him with attention, and this pandemy he said to the science he had put into a sty test. He had to reply to a strest test, because he had to answer a subject more quickly than ever, and science generally works slowly, slow but safe, and in this case it has been adjusted to speed and safety. And they have had more money than ever; science, debasement, is not accustomed to be money. We should also consider this: The AHTP money, not science. They've had more money than ever, they've had to respond faster than ever, and they've answered this strres test quickly with vaccine. I'd like to remind you that we expected the vaccine in February, and that it reached Europe at the end of August. So science passed this stress test, even over the note. But we're all supposed to do stress test on each of us, and we've all been through it, and government too. And in the government case, it's a great suspense. The political authorities here, our homes, the presidents, the government, the health department, the Health Department, have suspended. All this work, from the world of science, from the technical world, from the motives, from the university, from which opposition it has been made, has once more turned its back on the shoulders of the common associates. When they were asked to be naive attitudes, they didn't. While we were all closing up, some of us went to the Singery, others to play golf. When the vaccine arrived, some of them took the vaccine out of time. The Chief of Investigation here, in the parliament, was a lie. And it worked with pressure, in response to pressure, the government has advanced and taken steps. I'd like to know, or I'd like to remind you, how many times we've asked for a recruit at the Medical Committee, or how we'd start asking for members of the opposition in the fall of the vaccine plan. He's been answered by pressure, and he's always been bad and late in the pandema. And the law which is accepted or accepted today has been a demonstration of all that. And we say it's bad and late because PP brought us here today shows that the motion was answered by pressure. The government will say, or the sects supported by the government will say, that this insertion is in progress, or that it is done, or that it will end this week. But I'd like to remind you of May 11th already, 7th. that the chance to do this was to anticipate in review of the insertion strategy. May 11th. We're on June 24th. We had an interpelation about this two weeks ago. We've got a motion today. The interrogation was June 6th. Today is June 24th. It's bad and late. Just like all over Pandemia. And to-day, this suggestion of grafting on youthful and youthful teenagers, as I have said, has been ill and late in the government, is important to remark that the answer has been given too late. And it's important, after all, that we believe that he's moving forward here, because today he's brought to the public space, and that he was a private subject, and that family has given an answer to a person who hadn't had an answer to the medical department by private connections, because he's brought him to the public space. The pressure has moved the government again. In the end, just like the whole pandemy. To finish: This stress test has never been tested by the government. He didn't test a test. The suspense is complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u53	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u54	If you'll excuse me, from the seat. Good. I'm not going to answer Mr. Iriarte, because I really don't know what motion he was talking about. I don't know. Because he hasn't talked about anything that was the point, which has also been withdrawn. And well, it has been withdrawn once the debate has opened and we find this which I believe is not the best either. Just to say that, with regard to this issue, it is necessary to be clear what was the succession of facts. On Friday, 11 June, an inquiry was made on this issue, in which the counsellor replied and made it clear that what happened to those over the age of 16 who were in that situation and to those under the age of 16. And he says – you can read in the session log – that at the time when the Public Health Commission determines that they can be vaccinated, Euskadi will do so. That same week, I think I remember that it was Tuesday that the Public Health Commission made the decision to integrate these minors. And that same day, the Department of Health says it's on to it. In the amendment that we had recorded, which is not going to be voted on now, we said precisely that: that we appreciated very positively the decision of the Committee on Public Health and the Interterritorial Council to have included these minors, that we also appreciated very positively the department's action to have done so quickly. And we also take advantage of one thing, which is for what I have asked for the word, which I do want to say, which was to thank the professionals and professionals of Osakidetza in this process that is developing. So, simply, for our position to be collected, this is it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u55	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u56	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Don't worry, I'm going to delight your lordships with the food of brevity. I'm going to repeat a little what Mr. Rico said. On the 11th, Mrs. Garrido asked the health counselor to immunize adolescents aged 12 to 16 with severe addictions and pathologies. Mrs Sagardui replied to what Mr Rico said, that, regardless of whether it was already provided for in the vaccination plan, it was not yet approved by the Public Health Council. The Council approved it on the 15th, the Public Health Council of the State, which had not heard your question, by the way, Mrs Garrido. And today, June 24, all teenagers are already vaccinated. Don't ask, Mrs. Garrido, what do we tell him? You, if you were so in touch, knew they hadn't been vaccinated, you know they've been vaccinated. Except, it's true, there are boys and girls whose parents are unclear whether they should be vaccinated. Other boys and girls have just passed the VOCID-19 and cannot be vaccinated. And other children, already located, are outside the autonomous community and will wait to come. Only that's exceptional, the rest are all already vaccinated. This motion should never have been carried out, because the person who proposed it already knew that vaccinations had occurred, not because of the interpellation he did, which is what he tried to explain to us. Not at all. Because the Basque Government has strictly followed the established protocol. It has only served to have someone come down here and out of the context of the motion give us a meeting chapapote, which does not bring anything at all. But I am going to take advantage of it, as soon as I have assured you that I am going to delight you, that, on behalf of my group, we congratulate Osakidetza and all his staff, because, once again, they have demonstrated their effectiveness, their humane and efficient way of caring for us. Thank you, Osamate. Hold on tight, Osar. And hold on, chief physician.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u57	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the line of teams that don't run, Misa mustn't speak. Even Mrs. Gonz, representing the Podemos-IU team, shouldn't speak a word together. So this is where we end up. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u58	I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, everyone. [[Berber]] Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Madia Martín, the parliamentary members of the Misto group, about the plans of the anti-terrestrial visit to the Biktime of terroristism recently opened. Discipline and final resolution. I'm sorry, I don't have to vote, I'm sorry, I don't have to vote, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u59	Thank you, Madam President, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Children are like fresh cement, anything that falls on them leaves a mark. Our motion complements the actions of the Basque Government to incorporate the victims of terrorism into schools. Memory, respect and dignity for all victims of terrorism, that is the ultimate goal of this initiative presented by Vox. Eighty-sixty-four murders and 7,000 victims are the accounts of a terrorist group, ETA, which is also terribly linked to our territory, to our home. This reflection is not exclusive to this parliamentarian, but it is Raúl López Romo himself, the head of the Education and Exhibition area of the center, who says: "That is why it is located in the Basque Country. It is here that there is still a part of the radicalised population that sees with good eyes attacks of the past, and that is where any trace of justification can be intervened." The truth is that everyone we've survived ETA's terror and we're still living here or they've had to leave, we're victims. Victims, because bombs killed individuals who symbolized freedom. It was a warning to navigators and it has been the biggest attempt to gag the population ever seen. Our democracy is not complete. It is not exemplary, because the truth is that there is no freedom to express political concerns or to appear on an electoral list. The gagging to which we are subjected those who are already of a certain age is undeniable. We all remember radio and television giving the sad news of murders, the demonstrations of protera saying to people "or you're with me, or out." "Alde hemendik" I have come to listen, they have sometimes come to say to me, all of my life, and to my president, Santiago Abascal, always praised. In Vox we think we have to work on the younger ones. And as we have already told the Councilman, Mr Bildarratz, there are a number of programmes that are under way, which are clearly insufficient or do not work. We saw him in the election campaign and we saw him day after day. It is the younger ones who are dedicated to harassing our affiliates, those who go to our actions with the sole intention of breaking them down. You know that. It is the puppies of Sortu, their youth organizations, who follow the plans to gag all those we think differently. The young people of Ernai are dedicated to criminalizing and threatening anyone who does not fit ideologically, so they had in Durango a wall with the King of Spain hanged, the same one that came on the first of June to inaugurate the memorial. The other day he gave them data on the ignorance of Spanish youth in general about terrorism, but what is the knowledge of Basque youth? I will tell you: more than half of Basque university students do not know about Hipercor's attack. 21 dead. And young people who believe that the attack was a jihadist affair, I've seen it. Another fact: almost 50% do not know what happened to Miguel Ángel Blanco; that is, half of the university students. And we talk about people who have passed the selectivity, who have approved all the subjects and, therefore, have developed in theory all the key competences, including social and civic. Can you imagine if we're doing this survey with Bachiller's students? Can you imagine if we did it to all the students enrolled in ESO's room? The data is terrible. The Basque Government must make self-criticism, their models do not work, the Adi-Adian programme does not work, nor do any of the programmes such as the Heregun teaching unit or the prevention of violence for young people. They haven't worked because they're not evaluated, because they're passive programs. The student is not proactive, they use outdated methods that do not work with young people. All the teachers have warned us that today's teenagers have real problems keeping their attention for more than 15 minutes, and they are designing plans, obviating what the specialists say. The visit to the memorial has in front of other museums and centers of the same nature the possibility to change that, because it gives the young people the opportunity to participate in a proactive way, seeing the real history of the terrorism suffered on their land. In Vox we believe that the curriculum of our young people should include a mandatory visit to the memorial. We must work to ensure that the Department of Education coordinates the possibility for ESO students, especially those in fourth and also those in FP, to visit the memorial. But we don't talk about a visit and it's gone, no. We are talking about a specific programme that includes the pre-visit phase, the visit itself, and finally, evaluation, an evaluation that can be in the form of a project, for example. This is a learning methodology that has also yielded very good results. We have the tools to be able to do a really interesting job, a project in which the whole educational community participates: families, students, teachers, but for that we need the help of the Basque Government. We cannot leave such a vital project for the knowledge of our history at the discretion of educational institutions. We already know that some of them are interested in the fact that history is forgotten, we know it, and in this way to obtain a whitening of terrorists. Since Vox we'll be vigilant so this never happens. It usually happens when we hear people from the Basque Government talking about terrorism, especially the people from Gogora, who make a small dialectic trap. They condemn all kinds of violence and thus achieve a division between right and left, between Spain and Euskadi. In Vox we're not gonna let them play that game. The terrorism of ETA, its social and political consequences cannot be compared to the terror that has sown any other group in Spain. Nothing is comparable to the institutional terror that the terrorist organization ETA launched. That is why, I repeat, it is a moral obligation for all of us to approve this motion, which is nothing other than the recognition of a very special museum that captures our recent history and that, as I have already shown you in the inquiry and again here today, our young people do not know. The people who don't know their history are doomed to repeat it, and in Vox we will never let the executioners pretend to be victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u60	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the uncorrected teams to the popular Euscal Group-Ciudad, Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The National Centre for the Memory of Victims of Terrorism, recently inaugurated in this city of Vitoria, aims to, and puts it in its documents, preserve and disseminate the democratic and ethical values embodied by the victims of terrorism; build the collective memory of the victims and raise awareness among the population as a whole for the defence of freedom and human rights and against terrorism. This museum covers all forms of terrorism that Spain has suffered since June 1960, the date of the murder of the girl Begoña Urroz by a DRIL bomb in San Sebastián, until today. It understands the terror of ETA, the dirty war, the staples and jihadism. Not to mention the very ephemeral attacks of DRIL, anarchists and FRAP. It is, therefore, a teaching resource that we have at hand, of first order, of which we previously did not have and it seems to us that it is an opportunity that we have to take to train our young people on one of the most important issues: first-hand knowledge of the recent history of Euskadi and, above all, the delegitimization of violence. The proposal that the Joint Group is bringing here today, if we look at it objectively, without prejudice, is a proposal that actually does not go against anyone, but only against violence and hatred, which should be common enemies of all those we sit in this House, and it is a proposal for a better future, the future that our young people represent, which fortunately do not have in their memory recorded the terrible images and bitter experiences that some of us cannot forget. But, precisely because of this, you must know what has happened here, because, as has been said a moment ago, and said Ruiz de Santillana "those who cannot remember the past are doomed to repeat it" and Euskadi, especially his young people, need to learn what happened, understand it well, and immunize themselves forever against it. No one can deny our young people the right to know in the most direct and objective way possible something so terrible that has marked the life of Euskadi so recently and that it lasted so many years. They have the right to know and understand why it happened, because they have the responsibility to prevent it from happening again. And this objective, that of honestly teaching them what happened, is an intergenerational obligation that cannot be discretionary of educational centers, among other reasons, because in Basquedi there are still many centers dominated and led by an ideology called abertzale, very intense, that are transmitting to the young a version attenuated, justified and distorted of what happened. Surely there is no nobler and more valuable mission in the world than trying to abolish violence throughout society and in all its manifestations. Because the history of violence is the history of humanity, and even today we suffer daily in its multiple manifestations this phenomenon, because it is part of the worst of our culture and our life. It still seems normal today that it is difficult to find a series or film that does not have, in one way or another, unacceptable doses of violence, which influence the personality and behaviour of future generations. And that's how it works. Only since the 17th of May, for example, have 17 women been murdered by gender-based violence in our country, in one of the most disgusting manifestations of violence: violence against women. And hate crimes are still on the rise. In 2020 there were 241 hate crimes in Euskadi – almost 130% more than the previous year, a very significant increase –, 10% of which originated in political ideology, according to Ertzaintza. The perpetrators of all these crimes would have been a little more difficult to maintain mental coherence if they had visited the Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism in time. Because this violence is not a matter of the past, of that past that some want to forget too quickly, because they don't like the mirror it represents. It is something so recent and so present in our daily life that, as we all know, a few days ago the former councillor of the People's Party, Iñaki García Calvo, and three of his companions suffered in this same city, very close to here, an attack that the Ertzaintza found on ideological grounds, since the nine aggressors previously asked García Calvo if he belonged to the People's Party. Because for them to belong to the People's Party, it seems, justifies violence. What education have these young people received? Is there no responsibility for this on the part of their parents or their educational institutions? What are we transmitting to them and, above all, what are we not transmitting to them? Violence and its justification remain so alive today that in this very Parliament there are people who refused to condemn this attack, who twisted the words to avoid saying loud and clear what all Basque society has been demanding of them for decades: let them say once and for ethics, logic, coherence and honesty that violence was never justified, neither for political reasons nor for any other reason. That it was a salvation of irrational and sick beings, and that they commit themselves to never happening again. That is why these visits to the Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism are so important. I believe that in other parts of Europe this issue would not even have a possible debate. Because we can't build a society on hollow foundations. Because rejecting and condemning violence is a minimum ethical requirement for anyone who aspires to live in society. And because if we don't make sure that all our young people know and understand the past well, then we're playing the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u62	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In the turn of the answers, the Basque Socialists, yes, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u63	Good morning. As reflected in the Act on Victims of Terrorism, in the Act on Recognition and Reparation for Victims adopted by this Parliament, we see this policy of memory as an integral policy that has various instruments that allow for the recognition and reparation of all victims of terrorism and, in particular, the development of a policy of memory that aims to make clear that there has never been, nor will there be, justification for terrorist activity. That memory must contribute to the settlement of coexistence, peace and freedom and, therefore, to the delegitimization of violence and that the right to memory must have as its fundamental objective the delegitimization of terrorism, and strengthen the rule of law, and the inclusive coexistence of all citizens. That memory must be a fundamental tool for the ethical, political and social delegitimization of terrorism. This law, the Victims of Terrorism Act, the Reparation and Recognition Act, and the law that gives rise to the constitution of the memorial were launched by a socialist government in Madrid and a socialist government in Euskadi at that time. The Congress of Deputies adopted the Act on the Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism, which established that the National Centre for the Recognition and Memory of Victims of Terrorism would be established in Euskadi. All the victims included in that law, that is, the victims of ETA, the victims of the LAG, the Spanish Basque Battalion, all those included in that law. From there, from the Basque Government, realizing that this was another instrument for memory policy, we, together with the Government of Spain, promoted a cooperation protocol so that this centre, as established in the law, would become a reality as soon as possible in Euskadi, because this was established in the law. Since the Socialists left the Government, the Basque Government, there has been no news of the progress of this important project to establish memory and coexistence, and also to make it a place of permanent tribute and remembrance to the victims of terrorism. We didn't have any information. We demand it from the Basque Government, the new Basque Government. And the answer given to us is that there was no news from the Government of Spain for the thrust of that very important project. We are talking about the year 2012 and 2013. We were surprised. We did not understand that a government, with the support of a party that talks so much about the victims of terrorism, took so long without taking initiatives and without concreteizing a project of memorial of victims of terrorism, which would have to start being already, at that time, in the year 2013, a reality in Euskadi. It should be remembered that the creation and implementation of the National Centre for the Memory of Victims is an act of democratic decency. Victims are an example of democratic resistance, civicism, social commitment and respect for the law, and represent the principles and values of any democratic society. If forgetfulness is a form of infidelity to memory, the other form is misrepresentation, manipulation. For this, the terrorist usually uses interpretations of the fact that, in fact, they make the victim disappear as a victim, because he would have deserved it. And, therefore, it would have been a justified matter. The fight against oblivion must be permanent, because societies often have a self-defensive tendency to pass the pages very quickly. To this end, the Basque Government has been providing itself with a number of instruments that help to improve and maintain memory. Among them we can mention the agreement Gizalegez, made up of four bases of education for coexistence. The Udaberri 2024 plan, which is born to contribute to a better and more enriching coexistence through the full exercise of human rights. The Elkarrekin programme and the Adi-Adian programme, which, at the time, the socialists in the Basque Government referred to as the programme of educational victims, and which has had a frankly positive tour in schools. A whole compendium of instruments, placed at the service of the educational community, to strengthen the policies of memory and coexistence that are established as an offer that the Basque Government makes available to all educational institutions in Euskadi, not in order to impose, but to provide the tools necessary to advance in memory policies. Therefore, Mrs Martínez, we do not share, as you intend, to impose a certain tour of visits to one of the centres, in this case the memorial of victims. The students of Euskadi will be able to go, and it would be good if they did, to the Memorial Centre of Victims of Terrorism, as well as to the Gogora Memorial Institute or the Museum of Peace in Gernika. That's our criterion. And that is why we will not support your motion on this occasion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u64	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing on the answers, Mist, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u65	Mr. Pastor, I appreciate your presentation of the plans you have listed. I also listed them, both today and on the day of the interpellation. But I say again, these plans don't work. So, when something doesn't work, we'll change it and improve it, if it's within our capabilities. As I said in our motion, it goes directly to the students to visit the memorial, apart from the other plans that are already made. I have to keep saying the same thing: life remains the same, the same as bad. We don't argue with Vox, because he's coming to churn; now you explain that. It is shameful the spectacle offered by most groups in this House, rejecting what is impossible to reject, disrespecting thousands of Basque citizens, showing their lack of the slightest democratic talent. They speak of welcoming the different, of combating discrimination, of equality. They even talk about respect. It's indecent. Today, the PNV, the party that collected the nuts of the tree that led ETA and Herri Batasuna, plays the game for the executioners, and insists on their bet for the perversion of history. And if we leave them, it will make terrorism seem like an exclusive hallucination of the victims in a few years. That's his real goal, forgetfulness. Of those who were Herri Batasuna, of those who applauded ETA, of those who were ETA, nothing new can be said. They were angry when the Memorial of Victims of Terrorism was inaugurated, because they are not interested in the reflections that reflect their truth: their close relationship with violence. And today I imagine you're delighted, knowing you're not alone in your fight. That to whiten your criminal past count on the complicity of the PNV, and how not, of Podemos, your next bite. And I do not want to forget who is following these debates from the press room. Those who take for granted what is happening here: this crude and intrepid attempt to silence the one who represents a part of this society. To all those people who do not share the unique national-vastist thought. The first time was news, and he deserved criticism from the protagonists. The second one, it stopped being. And now, why should I tell you? Without the means, this undemocratic cord wouldn't be possible. Different levels of responsibility, responsibility of everyone. Shame. It is proof that this Parliament is neither the house of the word nor the democratic one. And since I have plenty of time, and the time is mine, I want to transfer the reading of a text that is in the memorial. By the way, I recommend your visit to all who have not gone; put the hen skin. This text is from one of the founders of the Victims of Terrorism Association. Her name is Ana María Vidal-Abarca, widow of the murdered by ETA Jesús Ignacio Velasco Zuazola, murdered at the age of 47: head of the Alava minions, who left four orphaned girls. One of those girls, Ana Velasco, is a great friend of mine, whom I admire and respect very much for her strength and integrity. This great woman, as I say, widowed by the vileness of murderers without heart or conscience, and upon cowards, said: "You always win when you're a good person. You always win when you try not to hurt anyone. You always win, when you defend life and freedom." Apply, all of you, these wise words. I'm staying with them. And thank you very much for nothing, and for showing another day your education and your parliamentary decorum.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u66	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Nothing, very briefly, to say that, today, in which this proposal is most likely to be rejected – which is a proposal, from my point of view, against violence – I just want to use it to do three things: One, to invite from here all educational centers to organize visits to this Memorial Center of Victims of Terrorism, because I think, I repeat, it is a resource, a unique opportunity, a fantastic opportunity on a fundamental theme. It seems to me that it is almost a matter of responsibility, that of organizing these visits. Secondly, I would like to take this opportunity to recall the victims of terrorism, and to thank their associations for keeping their memories alive and for the lessons that have left us with democracy and courage. And thirdly, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Ertzaintza and the rest of the state's security forces and bodies for the work they do every day, fighting violence in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u68	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The Socialists, yes, are your word, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u69	Look, I am here as a member of the Socialist Party, of the oldest party in Spain and the oldest in Euskadi. The party has a long history of pleasant aspects and very unpleasant aspects. We suffered, in the first person, together with other left-wing parties, the Franco uprising of General Franco, the Civil War and subsequent reprisals. And there were persecutions, threats, assassinations, shootings, graves, of which many of the names of those there are not yet known. Then we made the transition. And we did it with all the generosity of the world. Our colleagues, despite having suffered torture, imprisonment and repression, were generous, and facilitated the implementation of the democracy that we now enjoy. But they have not yet been properly repaired. Almost without a solution of continuity, we were already suffering the attacks and harassment of ETA in the Basque Country. I accuse that we also suffer from socialists in the first person: persecutions, complaints, reprisals, harassment, and murder, in many cases. In spite of everything, we knew how to be generous and intelligent. We set in motion, with a socialist government again, with Zapatero as President, Rubalcaba as Minister of the Interior, and Patxi López in Euskadi, Lehendakari of Euskadi, we set in motion a process of dialogue and firmness with ETA that managed to silence ETA. And you know what we heard then? That we betrayed the dead, that we didn't understand memory, that we put democracy at risk, that we were breaking Spain. Does that ring a bell? Because that is said again now, on your part, of the right and the extreme right, in relation to pardons. The same, exactly the same. Because you say you love Spain, but you don't want it; because to love Spain you have to love the Spaniards, and that part is forgotten to you. However, we will continue to work towards a better society, as we did in the Republic, as we did in the Transition, as we continue to do now. And now we will continue to strive to implement the reparation, memory and justice that the victims of terrorism deserve. But we are also prepared, and the Governing Council is going to set it in motion, to bring forward a proposal for a democratic memory law, because we must also have justice with those Spaniards who fought for freedom, who have been forgotten, and who do not defend because they do not like them. Because I would very much like you, from Vox, to be able to pass, we will soon see, in the Congress of Deputies a law of democratic memory, and do not dedicate yourselves to putting obstacles, as you did, together with people of the PP, in the uprising of Franco del Valle de los Fallados...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u71	... of a dictator who was deposited in a mausoleum surrounded by thousands of his victims. And to you it seemed absolutely nefarious that the dictator of the Valley should be brought out. Well, when one defends democracy, democracy defends itself in all areas, not in which I do well, and in the others I have amnesia. I think that's the difference between you and us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u72	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The discussion is over and we're going to vote Mrs Martínnez's original text of Mrs. Grayleña's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 7; the opponents are 68; the abstentions, 0; white, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u73	So, not allowed original text. Number of points in theme list: "Phum up the propose as the parlamentary team has made, to rebuild the crew of experts who will design the Euscal Energy treaty. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Otero, representing the EH Collector, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u74	Hello, good afternoon to all. It's not easy to be happy to see the news that's been lately around climate and energy because it's almost all bad news. I can say today that I'm happy, because I think we've made a fair deal. But before I explain to you, let me make a little mention of it before it was done, but it's not around the spot where it's going to be, about the price of electricity. And I must confess a little irritation because I think the price of the light is at once a central subject in the context of my neurotic transitions. And it may happen to any one that you bring a point and that, well, something has happened that it is not in force and must retire. But I don't think it's a case today. Iruditzen zait, I think PP-Citizens made an inquiry entitled "In relation to the sharp increase in electricity prices and the measures taken by the Basque Government to mitigate its negative impact", by the Basque Government, was entitled. And two of the three motions referred to possible actions that should be carried out through the Basque Government. But there was a third that urged the Government of Spain to lower VAT on electricity. And, of course, as the VAT on electricity has already been lowered, it seems that the whole motion has been deactivated, revealing that, once again, this Parliament was being used to make Madrid policy, with the aim of wearing down the Madrid Government. You will see, it is a pity because it was also a very interesting debate here. Returning to our proposal, I believe it will be more and more apparent in the climate of emergency, and in order to face this, that the process of carbonisation is the main challenges of our time. We believe that they surpass the law, that they exceed the government, that they exceed the parties, and that we have long said, that it is necessary to maintain, that the constitution of the climate and the policy of carbonism cannot be left to them, because everything is not in them. All of us, we all said that we have great commitments to carbonisation, but I think we must confess that either we all or we have not yet a clear piece of road, and that we do not know how we shall do so; much less because we here, without jurisdiction, are not clear how we shall do it, because energy and politics are states of state. And it happens to us that we have already become so old-fashioned as our climately planning, and that the objectives which were held there do not accord with the now existing romances. And in the meantime, we're getting into trouble. The day before yesterday, without going any further, we stayed at Eurobasque, where Mrs. Berrojalbbiz and Monsieur Barrioz were, and there, among other interesting matters, Michael de BC3 left us some disturbing headlines. Berak zioen call "climate action is an ethical obligation with future generations". He also said that time is running out and yet the pace of action remains inadequate. And that the actions implemented do not coincide with the objectives we have set ourselves. He was also pitching announcements. He said that Euskadi has a high percentage of businesses and jobs in sectors at risk of transition. And he was also telling us that the green pact must be green, but it must also be a social pact. Light risks, therefore, both in social and corporate zone. And in an even more serious tone, yesterday, the IPCC was taking forward the seventh assessment report that will be published in full in February next year but whose main conclusions are already established, and the conclusions give true vertigo. We are told that whatever the pace of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the devastating impacts of warming on nature and humanity are accelerating. But they also tell us that every tenth we win matters. They also tell us, and it affects us, that almost all coastal areas could be hit by three or four simultaneous weather disasters or more: heat waves, droughts, cyclones, fires, floods, diseases, etc. Moreover, the effects of other human activities harmful to the planet, such as habitat destruction, overexploitation of resources, pollution, disease spread, etc., must be taken into account. And they conclude: the world faces intertwined and complex challenges. And they give us a serious warning: life on earth can recover from important climate change by evolving to new species and creating new ecosystems, but humanity cannot. So this is not going to save the planet, but, in any case, save us and ourselves. And they also tell us that in the face of these systemic problems there is not a single miraculous solution, but a single action can have positive cascade effects, so, the positive action we can do today we hope it will also have cascade effects. The IPCC is of the view that we need a radical transformation of processes and behaviour at all levels: individuals, communities, businesses, institutions and government. We have to redefine our way of life and consumption. He says that we need the radical reversal of our life and our productive model, not us Rubbish, but the best science we have today. And this revolution has to cross all the politics. Looks like we're starting to listen to music, at least in theory. This same week, Pedro Subauzu presented a second copy of the Tuscans, and I congratulated him for the introduction there is. And Subautud quoted again Kate Raworth, the economist. It is he, Kate Raworth, the best theoretical of the permanent economy, and he sets up two main columns when we talk about the permanent: the one is the satisfaction of the fundamental necessity of permanence, of water, dwelling, energy, and so on; and the other, that the satisfaction of these wants cannot be done beyond the capacity of the planet. And that's what's happening. We are superior to the capacity of the planet, developing our life and our economy. And the Basque Country is very superior to the average in the world, both in the heat of the wintry effects, and in general in the indication of our metabolism on the planet. We're in a state that has no stability, there's no doubt about it. And this community has responsibilities, especially this community has responsibilities. If we look at our production apparatus from a material point of view, we could say that it is a huge digesting apparatus of all kinds of materials, which introduces in its productive metabolism approximately 45 million tons of materials per year, of which 70% are imported. It digests them by creating products and services, exports half of what it produces, consumes 15% of what it produces and excretes, along the way, several, many, millions of tons of waste, 25 in particular, among solids, liquids and gaseouss. Among them, which is, by weight, the star product of our economy, CO 2 , which far exceeds any other product produced in this part of the country; in particular, according to the latest data from Ihobe, 18 million tons and a half. If the goal is decarbonization and our main production, our main product is CO 2 , we have an obvious, obvious problem. Nor should we be comforted, or not at all, by improvements in carbon intensity. We have often heard here that improvements in efficiency make money-measured wealth do not lead to an increase in emissions. And it is true, the economy grows more than emissions, but it is also a clear example of the Jevons paradox. William Stanley Jevons realized, more than 150 years ago, that the fact that there were improvements in the efficiency of production processes did not translate into a reduction in the use of resources, but rather that productivity and earned competitiveness were used to produce more, so that the material use of a given product did not decrease, but increased. That is why it is so difficult to think that in an economy oriented to economic growth it is possible to achieve the objectives of combating climate change. And that is also why, despite the fact that our economy has grown significantly over the past 30 years, the reduction in emissions has been witness. And we are at a historic moment in which not only the carbon intensity matters, but also the absolute and real emission of each sector, because carbon molecules do not understand productivity, but accumulation, and that accumulation continues inexorably to increase, even in times of pandemic. Because pandemics gave us some lessons. Many have been spoken of the zoonosis and viodybertsity of diseases which produce pressures, but there has been less talk of inclination. And in 2020 we've had the biggest drop of the winter effects that has ever been for the last two centuries: in the world-level between 5-6%, according to the first estimate. The crisis in 2008 didn't cause that. This gives us some clues: that motion and inclination are very intimately connected. But he has given us another lesson: CO being accumulated in the atmosphere 2 the number of the liquids, however low, has risen, and the greatest record of all time has been broken: 419 ppm, a month ago. This means that the downfalls of the sheds, not only being great, must be supported. And that's never been done before. And not even here, not in our community. We've got a pretty big problem here, our relative data is flawless. According to the data of 2019, the emissions have dropped a little, but our differences with Europe has increased; Give 8,4 tons of person/years. And we're above the average of Europe. We need to increase our goals to match the targets our climate clock has set by Europe, because our development is pretty disturbing. For the year of 1990, our inclination has descended to 10-11%. And I have said another time, but since President Urkullu, our inclinations have not been lowered, we are in a mosque. And we need it if we have to go down 6%, 7% of a year, if we have to get decorboneization. And we need to combine this with all the other ecological challenges. It's not just climate. We can read similar things about Biodiversity, etc., etc., etc., etc. All this has come in consideration of the proposal which we have made to-day, and which we have made today. It continues to follow several accounts which have been set out in the preceding law, and this proposition of carbonisation was concluded by a law, the law of the Enpresence. And there it was said that a group of experts had to start. This group was set to work, some work, some occupations, but before they were finished the law was over. So, it's an important time to go on with it. Even so, and this has been the contribution of parties supporting the government, the law of myrgetic transition and climate change is given a impulse, and in some way, a tendency to self-consumption, a just nature of transition. And I think it's an interesting contribution. And finally, by this agreement, in this legislature, a form is formed of a power which is to be performed in this year's absence of economy. He's going to write a report of recommendations, and we think it might be interesting, because we've said over and over again on such a fat subject that we have to activate and demand the entire collective intelligence of this town. And that's why it's an engagement to bring different operators, unions, corporations, etc., to explain how they see this decoration process, and then I think we'll be able to make it up in a quality document and make it sound like fun to make plans for failure, in the company of experts, or even in the law itself, we'll be able to include a lot of contributions. I want to finish by saying it's important to make progress around climate and energy in this area. I want to thank the socialists and the Jesuits for the agreements they've shown. for Poseidon, of course, has joined the agreement, and has also received his contributions. And I, Unai, I want to bring in a few words of yours this evening because we've talked about energy, and obviously it's gas, eolious, eolious, and many other things have been disagreed. But even when there have been disagreements, you have often rejected that we are, in some measure, condemned to hope. And I am, I am, that this agreement of this day, at least, gives us some hope in this matter, though afterwards it is plain, that when work is set, the agreements will not be fully satisfied. But at least I think we've set the focus on a good spot. Eta, amaitzeko, nago nor gero eta gertuago dagoela eguna zeinetan gure ondorengoek gure politicikak klimarengan izan doten ondorioen galbahetik passako dituztena. I believe that the next generations will pass through the climate sieve our policies and will be judged as good or bad policies according to what we have done in this field. I only hope that today's initiative will have good consideration in that screening, but above all that good work will come out of the commitments we make today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u75	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u76	Okay. Good morning, everyone. Indeed, we are faced with an important agreement, basically because, in general, in matters relating to the energy transition because the political forces or groups that support the Government and some of us who are part of the opposition have different views, it is sometimes difficult for us to reach common places. But, in any case, I believe that there are certain common denominators in the transaction that are relevant and that need to be mentioned. I will also use my time to raise some doubts, in any case, which we have with some of the references contained in the transaction. Well, more than you doubt the literality of the text, you doubt what can happen to them, it's worth redundancy. First of all, we believe that once again ratifying and reiterating the commitment to the objectives set out in the GNP that spoke of the issue of the Basque Energy Pact of the previous legislature is timely and correct and, in that regard, we believed that we needed to join. Then, on the other hand, with regard to the second point on which we are talking about adopting a climate change law as soon as possible, it is true that, as far as our amendment to the initial whole is concerned, we proposed a concrete time frame but, in any case, the fact that it is as soon as possible, we understand that the groups that support the Government, and the Government itself, know about the climate emergency, because it was thus declared here and therefore the need for the times to be accelerated in order to be able to follow and process the climate change law. Then, the third point mentions the need to re-activate the group of experts, and that, in this sense – and here is where one of the issues that we reflect in our amendment – is incorporated, in addition to dealing with what has to do with the Basque Energy Pact, it also deals with what has to do with the new climate change law; well, not new: the first climate change law in Euskadi. In this sense, finally, it gives us a certain fear that, in the previous parliamentary term, the committee of experts that was formed was, of course, plural, was on the proposal of each of the parliamentary groups, with two members for each parliamentary group. In this sense, the enrichment that this committee of experts could bring to what had to do with the content of the Basque Energy Pact, of course, would generate consensus, in our view, or indeed in the fruit of the debate, would put on the table the different visions and perspectives that existed from different experts and from their own academic or, where appropriate, professional experiences. Now, as it is written, in the sense that this committee of experts will be on the proposal of the Basque Government and, where appropriate, also validated by the Basque Parliament, we doubt whether it will have that degree of plurality that it had at the time. Let us hope that it will be so, because it will be for the good of society as a whole. And then, on the other hand, we also have doubts about the technical secretariat that the Basque institution will manage or, in principle, be entrusted to it, to support the committee of experts. And I say that we have doubts because the previous legislature, because of the same issue, this technical secretariat of the EVE was finally subcontracted, that is, a bidding process was made that did not finish, because the legislature actually ended, but a public bidding of half a million euros came out in which in addition certain consultants, which are the usual ones, KPMG, Pricewaterhouse and so on. It has not been awarded, I say, because the legislature is finally over, but we are afraid that, again, the functions of the technical secretariat to be carried out by the Basque Energy Agency will again be subcontracted. In this sense, let's hope it doesn't. We wanted to put that issue on the table, because we believe that, in such a relevant and important area as this, we cannot dispense with the public service and outsource it to consultants of these characteristics who also have found interests. And then, on the other hand, in relation to the paper: it seems to us good news that a paper on decarbonisation is being articulated, as Mr Otero has said, because it is imperative that we speed up decarbonisation in our country, taking into account the rates at which we are moving at the moment and, in that sense, the debate that can take place within the framework of the welcome paper. In any case, I say that for our parliamentary group it is a matter of priority that, within the framework of the climate change law, it is where the percentages and commitments of deadlines that the Basque Government must acquire in relation to decarbonization, as it has been in the climate change law at the state level, despite the fact that the percentage contained in the state law is lower than we would have liked, but the arithmetic and composition of the Congress of Deputies is what it is, and our participation in the government is also what it is. But, in any case, let us hope that here in Euskadi there will be a greater commitment as regards the percentage of decarbonisation. In any case, it seems to us good news that a paper on decarbonization will be included in this transactional and that, in that regard, we can contribute and present our views or positions on the issue. And, in this sense, and to conclude – because I'm going to be very brief – we think it's good news. We believe that, in this particular issue, which is one of the greatest challenges, if not the greatest challenge facing society and public administrations and the productive fabric, that there be agreements and certainties to citizens, I say, is correct. And, in this sense, we and we have wanted to exercise the necessary responsibility to join this agreement by a broad majority of the Basque Parliament, because we believe that it is of justice and necessity, and we hope that these commitments will then really be translated into materializable agreements, that they will not only articulate certain mechanisms of sharing positions and positions, and then it will not really turn out to be something positive, and in the line that we believe should go into decarbonisation and also in the articulation of a new climate change law, the first climate change law in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u77	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u78	Good morning. When working on this point of the day, look, I went to the base and visualized the plenary of the last legislature in which the creation of the commission of energy experts was discussed, and really that the debate generated more doubts than I had, because it really did not clarify the need for the creation of that commission, it seemed to me more like a desire of Bildu to lead everything that has to do with the care of the environment – eye, that very well, eh?, in everything that has to do with the care of the environment, we are going to be in favor – but it is true that we see the need for efficiency in the actions we take. And in the very explanatory statement of the GNP presented here today, it already says that the committee was set up, that it held a number of meetings, and that what it really did not finish was the commission to the EVE, the Basque Energy Agency, the bidding of contracts, to create a secretariat and a participatory process. So what comes from a commission that has to work to advise on decarbonization, to go forward to combat climate change, serves to return the ball to the government. So, we're still in doubt. And look, if they tell me the committee is going to set targets... But that is not the case, because the objectives are already set. If they tell me that the committee is focused on advising us to legislate on climate change, I would be in favour. What we would like is for the committee to focus the shot and take into account the proposal of the European Commission, which established in November 2016 a winter package, clean energy for all Europeans on the order of the energy transition, which I have already said in my amendment, basic principles of models of governance of the energy transition, a story that is clear and didactic, explaining the transformations that the transition is going to entail, in the medium and long term, in sectors such as transport, industry, building, and the impacts that this can have on the economy and employment, the new requirements of training and training, the territorial and social impact, which is inclusive and participatory... Given the impact that the energy transition will have on the economic structures of society, the strategy for decarbonisation, its elaboration and monitoring must be open to the different economic sectors. We have to say that decarbonisation has to go across society as a whole, because we are all going to be influenced by the rules or laws that we are going to pass here. It has to do with changing consumption, changing habits. It has to do with the self-employed. It has to do with SMEs. It has to be fair and equitable, to leave no one behind on the road to achieve the goals. It's important. We were, a few hours ago, talking about energy poverty. It's also going to influence. It's also going to influence. How we do the strategy to design decarbonization will influence some people to be affected. We'll have to keep an eye on him, and we won't have to let him get away. It must be effective and efficient, in accordance with the international commitments to which we have committed ourselves, in terms of energy and climate change. It has management tools, quantitative objectives to be met, and tools for the development of quantification and investments and time frames. Important: investments and deadlines. Rigorous monitoring and evaluation procedures to assess results. And it will allow us to analyse and quantify whether we have met the objectives in the medium and long term. It is just that, ladies and gentlemen, we already know that the committee is going to be set up. I've seen the transaction. But please, so that it serves more than just for the EVE to hire, for the government to lead an energy transition that we, the whole of Parliament, all the Basques have to lead. Let us not leave it in the hands of just a few, because I believe it is important that we participate and cooperate in this committee, which I believe should take into account all the sensitivities with regard to climate change, decarbonisation, energy, economic sectors and social sectors that can be influenced by what we are going to decide. And look, ultimately what we have to be is really useful and let's not get lost in the administration giant. Let us be able to reach the citizen, the entrepreneur, the self-employed. And that's why we're here, to improve the quality of life of Basques, effectively. I don't know if creating a paper, extending decision-making over time can be a short-term quality of life for citizens. We know that in the long run it certainly does. What scares us is that this kind of thing gets longer in time. I am announcing – I have now read the compromise to which you have come – that we are going to abstain, but not because we are against an assessment of how we have to accompany climate change or how we have to accompany the fight against climate change or decarbonisation, but because of the hairs we are leaving ourselves, the hairs that we are leaving ourselves on the road to reaching agreements, because it is important that the whole House can have an opinion on how to do things in the long term and, above all, on the environment, which affects everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u80	Madam Chair, Mrs. Vice President. Good noon, everyone. Well, I think what we are bringing to the debate today is the desirability of drawing up a road map with the next steps that we are going to have to take as a society, not just the government, not only the institutions, but as a society, in view of the much-needed energy transition to new sustainable and CO-neutral models. 2 - No, no, no, A matter that only makes sense, a debate that only makes sense if we are able to bring it as we have brought it to the ground of the great consensus. And that is why I want to start my speech by thanking the efforts and generosity of the different groups that have worked through these days, to achieve the compromise that we are going to vote on here today. Firstly, of course, the proposer, Mr Otero of the Euskal Group Herria Bildu. Secondly, Mr Grajales, of Basque Nationalists; Mr Soto, of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, for having worked and achieved a compromise, which I believe gives coherence. Today we have to be able to draw on this screen that we have behind us, within a few minutes, the reflection of the Basque consensus on the need to deepen in our fight against climate change. I think today is the time. Today we have to be able, I have said on some occasion with different topics, to focus on what unites us and leave in a drawer, even if it is for a while, for this half hour of debate, to leave in a drawer that separates us. Mr Otero said that in his speech. Here we have discussed hydrocarbons, about gas, we have discussed wind farms, we will continue to discuss, I imagine we will have time to discuss hydrogen, about energy corridors, about their need or not, but of course today is the time to make visible, to make visible a great consensus regarding the key points, to the points that unite us. It is true that we will then continue to discuss and in the end this disparity leaves only the reflection of a democratically healthy society, where we move away from uniformity and uniformity. I want to be brief and I've been debating this week whether or not to include data. There were two factors in my favour to remove them from my speech: on the one hand, to know that Mr Otero was going to make the previous deployment and the data were going to be more than obvious, is to thank him, Mr Otero, because the truth is that it facilitates the life to which we spoke after you. And on the other hand, by reading the plenary diary of March 14, 2019, where somehow it began with the initiative, with a non-legislative proposal, also at the hand of EH Bildu, of Mr Otero, and where what began today is the debate that we bring here today. So, really, those who are following with interest the debate we are having, I recommend that you spend some time watching the videos of those speeches, reading the session log, because photography, the scheme, I think it was quite clear at the time. Unfortunately, what was said there, the global data that were said there, or are still the same or are getting worse. However, from that session until now we cannot say that we have been standing still. It is true that at this time there have been a number of milestones that we might even consider historical and that I believe it is necessary to put on the table. First, on July 30, 2019, the Basque Government declared the climate and environmental emergency, placing the issue of climate change and the necessary and inevitable energy transition as our country's central objective. Secondly, allow me to speak again here, I have already done so on many occasions, about the great opportunity that was the adoption at the Congress of the Deputies of Law 7/2021, of Climate Change and Energy Transition. A law promoted by socialist minister Teresa Ribera, but which managed to bring together, together with the socialist vote, a broad parliamentary majority, like the one I hope we can achieve today in this House. It is true that there is a fact that I resist sharing with your ladies and gentlemen, because it has drawn my attention and is a rather recent photograph, it is from May 2021 and it has been done by the Office of Sociological Prospecting of the Basque Government. In the period from 2017 to 2021, over the past four years, the number of people who view climate change as a global threat, as a real environmental catastrophe, has increased by 44%. But beyond that, over the same period, over the past four years, 30% of citizens feel fear and concern when talking about this issue. It is a photograph of the concern of Basque society and it justifies, in some way, that we are constantly bringing to this House the debates on climate change and the energy transition. It is true that in general Basque society perceives this challenge as something collective, as something that we have to face among all of us, institutions and citizens, the economic world and the social world as a whole. But it is also true, and I believe that it is important that we share it here, that it be put on the table in this Parliament, and that the number of citizens who are beginning to look at their institutions in search of answers to this feeling of fear, impotence, threat and concern is increasing. Of course, we can't fail them. Today with the compromise that we are going to vote on, well, it is also not that I want to stop much in detail, because Mr Otero has already done so, but well, it is true that to what we are going to reaffirm the objectives set out in the initiative of 14 March 2019, that is, we will again state that the depletion of fossil energy resources and climate change are among the main threats to our well-being and to a just and sustainable future. Therefore, the energy transition must be given priority in public policies, with the aim of overcoming the use of fossil resources and addressing climate change. We also ratify that in this process, which does not go backwards, it is essential to articulate a broad debate on the energy transition. Beyond that, we are talking about calling on the Government to put in place a procedure to be able to adopt, as soon as possible, a Basque law on climate change and energy transition, as well as the presentation and groups of which I have already been told, and therefore I will not insist on the issue. I said that on more than one occasion, we are at a vital moment. Every day we let go without doing anything, it's a day we'll miss in a few years. It is Parliament's duty to put the debate on climate change and energy transition at the centre of our priorities. Let us be an example, let us send society the message they are waiting for from us and from us. Let us tell them that we are concerned, take care of ourselves and we will deploy all measures in our hands. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u81	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u82	Yeah. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. The fact that we agree with the initiative of today is that the last thing is, if I don't want to bore you. So I'll try to sum up what I have to say. But today, the first thing to say is "a great deal." Thank you, first of all, to Mr. Otero's introduction to the initiative, Mr. Alonsso, and to the agreement that he met Mr. Soso, how not. Secondly, the agreement obtained with the United States of Basques is to celebrate and defend. It is necessary to accept the law for the transition of energy and change of climate, and to prevent a group of experts from renewing the work which has begun to make a treaty of energy. In order to increase the use of spiritual efficiency and of retractable sources, and get a transition by means of this agreement, we ask him to present to you the suggestion of a group of experts, to give advice at the time of law, and to the Committee of Consistence, to make a piece of disorganization. Two years ago, as has been said, we founded on working for a great nation in this legislature, which will lead us to 2050, being a neutral society of carbonisms. Then we took a big step. And now, with this new resolution, we will continue, and the agreements of the present day have been strengthened. Today, the issue is that, just over two years after we passed the Sustainability Act, which went from being from public administrations to being from Euskadi, thanks to a broad political agreement; to agree on the way forward on what we call the Basque Energy Pact, we are again faced with a broad agreement to deal with the energy transition. Today, the Basque Parliament is aware that the viability and effectiveness of the transition to a new energy model requires broad political consensus so that it can materialise. That makes the transition stand for a pledge to the Middle Ages, which, through an organizational agreement and social agreement, will be able to guarantee the arrangement of that field. In this inevitable process, it is essential that the transition should be started on the neurotic process. And on that road today, we take a very important step. "In the proper place," says the proverb, "there is no climb," and although the routes to this agreement are often steeped, it has not happened this time, thank God, that we are in the right place, in the place of agreement, where one likes the Journal Party of Euzia. So let's do it. Today, as two years ago, we advocate a country pact on the energy transition, through inter-institutional and social agreements that will ensure consensus in this area. In this process, which is already irreversible, it is essential to continue the debate on the energy transition. And today we are taking an important step in this direction. The future law on energy transition and climate change will have to analyse the possible proposals for energy policy made by experts and the presentation: the environmental impact, the existing alternatives, their economic cost, as well as the strategic objectives necessary to be able to achieve them in the most efficient way possible, ensuring at all times economic competitiveness, security of supply, economic growth, job creation and environmental sustainability. And, as always, the concerns, doubts and objections that citizens may have to the changes to this transition must be taken into account. In order to be able to acquire a genuine social commitment, it is necessary to minimize the harm that the most vulnerable groups in society may suffer during this energy transition process. This will ensure that the transition is fair and fosters economic, social and inter-territorial cohesion. We also believe that the energy transition will inevitably bring about changes in the productive fabric, and that is why we must consider it as an opportunity for development for this country. This energy transition will have to be properly aligned with industrial policy, in order for Basque industry to maintain its leadership in technological development, in innovation, following the necessary adaptations resulting from the changes. We are taking a fundamental step towards the transition to a new energy model that, as a country, we must face without delay. Four years ago we have been talking about the need to build a pact around energy, and I am convinced that today we are taking a new step in the right direction towards that transition to the new energy model. Because the fight against climate change, as has already been said here, is one of the main motivations for action in the area of energy sustainability. But not only in sustainability, but also in areas such as production, distribution, prices, etc. This transition will require actions to change patterns and modes of consumption, shift the use of fossil fuels, and efficiently and effectively integrate renewable energy. This change can and must occur while maintaining a reasonable channel of energy for users and ensuring at all times security of supply to both individuals and businesses. I also believe that it is important for this road to leave this Parliament with an agreement as broad as we have today. And if we are able to support from the difference an interinstitutional and social agreement, the implementation of the agreements in the right direction is guaranteed. Hence the greatest contribution to the first three points, which were our amendment to the whole, which is to launch a paper, as Mr Otero said, an exercise in collective intelligence – as our classics, the Basque civil genius would say – in order to make this social agreement a reality. The law itself is one of the fundamental principles of this popular doctrine, and we must undertake it. And I think that's what we're doing today. We're making the essential step, as a country, transition to a new energy model that we need without delay. We've been talking about the need to make a pact around energy for four years, and I'm sure we've taken another step today. Like I said, the transition to a new energy model on one of the foundations that make up the transition. For the struggle against the change of climate is one of the principal motives which, as has been said here, can be carried on in the field of endurance of energy. But not only in the case of endurance, but also in the sphere of production, distribution, price, etc. For this transition, it will be necessary to change the models and modes of consumption, to discard the use of fossil fuels, and integrate retractable energy into efficient and efficient mode. This change can be made, and must be done, as long as users maintain a reasonable energy flow, and as long as they can guarantee the security of the supplies, whether of the private or of the corporations. I believe also that it is important to begin the road from this legislature with the vast agreement we now have. And again I wish to emphasize the importance of political, institutions, and social institutions to the reduction of emissions, and the design of public policies, which will lead us to the rise of the most reconnaisssive and productive energy. It's a challenge that can't get to the morning from night to night. Illusion challenges and targets, all going the same way. We have to do the ical transition by consent, and this does not end here today. The multitude is coming, the law follows, and again the difference will be great agreements. We'll put our main effort on the eubertarian team for that. As they say, we'll have to do a lot of those famous kitchens or cocktails, and I'll always have the check. Mygetic Transition is one of the keys of future priorities, not only to Basques, even to Europe and the whole world. And therefore we must be a precursor to permanent development, to the care of environment, to intelligent motion, and to the opposition strategy of climate change. In this sense of the advance guard, we must place between us the law of the future negligical transition and climate change. This new system of rules gives us a greater ambition to obtain two important ends: In 2050 the neutrality of the gas-preservation of the heat effects and the progress of a better prepared country in the climate. I, as I said, have differences, whether or not I agree, Mr. Otero, I always have a checktilla ready. And this is not a joke, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u83	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The next round of a group that has no corrections, MistA mustn't take the word. In answer, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u84	Yes, thank you again. Puntilatxo bat, ez noa eztabaidak berriz irekitzera, baina Alderdi Popularrak esan dituen gauzen artean, ez dakit, ez dakit kontraesana den edo zer den, baina, you said, Mrs Larrea, that you have a little feeling that all this agreement, everything that is proposed in the agreement, somehow returns the ball, or the works that are going to be done return the ball to the roof of the government. And yes, of course, it is true, a report will come out from the paper or another report from the committee of experts or anything that comes out from here to the end will leave the issues or recommendations on the government roof. But it was already on the roof of the Government, so today I break a spear in favour of the groups that support the Government and the Government in this regard, because everything we have in the legislature is saying or complaining about a model of closed governance, which is not open to the important issues of the country, to the challenges of the country, etc. I do not know how this will end, but the government has ahead of it the waste plan, the renewal of the climate plan, the law of mobility, the law of energy transition, the renewal of climate and energy plans, etc., and what I am saying is that I very much appreciate that it opens up to reflection when it might not, because we have seen how many other issues have been rejected here. The very creation of the paper I value it in positive from that side. And I'd say backwards. You said that we are to improve the quality of life, that we cannot leave things in the hands of the Government, that it is important that we participate, because these are precisely mechanisms, channels of participation. When we talk about activating this country's collective intelligence in the face of the important challenges we face in the future, we are talking about that we, they and you are going to have the opportunity to appoint some experts so that you can make a qualitative contribution to that group of experts, which in the end is just an external advisory group, also to the Government, which can influence climate-energy policies, etc. Or we will all have the possibility, when the paper opens, of bringing different sectors of society, which will be, or should be, involved in exposing their complaints, problems or orientations, in view of the planning that needs to be done. And then, of course, yes, the configuration of the House and Government is what it is, and in the end the Government will have a responsibility, decisions to make. We will focus, we will try to discuss, take the discussion as far as possible so that we can influence that the characteristics that the energy transition is going to have are those that look like you were saying and that you have put in your amendment. But it is not just to say – that is to leave the ball in the hands of the government – how the characteristics have to be and then "do it yourself". No, no, we're going one step further. We call for an involvement of the parties in the presentation, in the committee of experts and also in the whole elaboration of all that remains to be done in the legislature, so that this is as consensual as possible or, at least, we can give voice to as many people as possible. Because the energy-climate transition – and I want to insist on it, and I will end this – is that it is very difficult, that it is going to be very difficult, it is, in fact, already very difficult on all sides. In the previous committee of experts, the Socialist Party appointed Natalia Fabra, among others, for our committee of experts. Natalia Fabra was in the Senate this week, because there is also a decarbonization paper, and for me she said some phrases that are completely key to understanding this process and I want to read them textual. She said that "we run the risk that the ecological transition will derail if we do not adequately address its distributive impacts and, because we cannot afford it to fail, we have to ensure that the costs and benefits of the ecological transition are shared equitably in society. This division depends on the implementation of correct policies that, from the outset, do not generate distributive imbalances, and where it is inevitable that policies to combat climate change generate winners and losers, it will be necessary to introduce compensation mechanisms." All this is happening now, these debates are on the table. The revolts of the yellow vests in France began with a protest against measures that had to do with the ecological transition. The rebellion in Chile also began with the rise in the price of transport, which is related to energy-climate measures. The referendum lost by the parties that promoted it, which were all less the far right, in Switzerland, was also lost due to energy-climate issues. They are going to be complicated and difficult measures and there are going to be losing and winning sectors. We better make plans as open as possible, as involved as possible. And what this initiative really seeks is precisely that, that these plans involve as much as possible the society that surrounds us. That's the spirit, and there's no more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u85	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together Podemos? He doesn't have to take the word. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados? Yes, from there. Your word, Miss Larrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u86	We appreciate what you have just said, always leaving us the doubt. Make it clear that we are going to participate and we are going to collaborate, and from our point of view we are going to try to reach that highly supported consensus – we would like – across society so that those who are affected also understand the fact that we need to fight climate change. But, again, I say that we will abstain from the transaction that you have signed, because we have certain doubts that it will be carried out this way. But it is always good that we can all reach agreements, even if we do not vote for them, because we believe it is good for the fight against climate change. But let us have those reticences, or doubts, about the possibility of it developing well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Alonso and Mr. Granaris mustn't speak. End of discussion, we'll vote EH Collect, together Podemos-IUk, Esquile Socialists, and Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters are 68; the contrary is 1. Absence, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u88	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. At this point, I interrupt the whole meeting until three-fifteen. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-nine. At sixteen o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u89	Good afternoon. We'll follow the entire meeting. The seventh point on the theme list: "Punciation of the equivalent of the parlamentary team, the pandemia produced by COVID-19, to examine the inclosure of the emotional and mental health of the citizens of EAE. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mrs Garde, representing EH Collect, has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today, we want to talk about the people's emotional health and mental health. Because it's obvious to us that COVID-19's pandemy has had a great and direct impact, that it's going to be and will have it in the emotional or mental health of all of us. And this impact is of no consequence, in many cases it is violent. That's what the health department shows us. And I'll try not to insist on the data because there are still a few of them, but what we have is already scandalous or very strong. Passa den urtean, 2020an, suizidioek gora egin zuten % 27. 187 personsonek beer weed beasts egin zuten EAEn, azken 18 urteetako daturik altuena. The highest figure in the last 18 years. There hasn't been a peak like this since 2002. 187 persons, with names and surnames, which means that here, every two days, a person takes his life because he suffers; because it is not because they do not want to live, it is because they want to stop suffering. Bi egunetik behin, suizidio bat. Gaur bai, bihar ez, bathe etzi bai, berriro. Hori da egoera, larria bezain mingarria. And we must be clear about this, because suicide reality has made it worse with pandemia. Yes, there was a tendency downhill and that's broken. And that is also serious and meaningful. And we haven't got any data yet, but I don't think they'll be any good. It's a guess, we'll see, but okay. Hala ere, suizidioez gain beasts gauza asko ere gertatu dira; beasts datu asko daude eta aldagai batzuk ére bai. Urte battik beasta, 2019tik 2020ra bitartean, osasun mentalko kontsultek gora egin zuten i % 13. Heinera, azken hilabeteotan osasun mentalko professional askok ohartarazi due haur eta gasteen kasuan henezka egon say it; larrialdiak, unitak, eta zerbitzuak. Infanto-juvenile units and emergencies have often been saturated, overwhelmed, with a much larger influx of cases than usual, and more than expected, with serious cases as well. And the impact that the pandemic is having on the younger people and, above all, on the younger women is very noteworthy. Zeren neska gasteen kasuan bikoiztu egin will say elikadura-porteraren nahasmenduak. Food conduct disorders have doubled. Cases of depression and anxiety have also risen between children, teenagers, and young men. And unfortunately, we haven't got that specific information yet. For the time being, it's a statement made by professional courts of health and minors, but it's a matter of deep examination. And watch out, there's a lot of public sectors that's been running around the pandemia "gob, caña and caña" over and over again, criminalizing inclus, almost without insight and empathy. And it is manifest that there are young men among those who have suffered most. Yes, because at a very complex moment life has been broken, and they have been pressed. Eta azken datu bat: According to Unicef, suicide is the second leading cause of mortality among young people between the ages of 15 and 29. In general, data is serious and disturbing. The reality they're drawing is brutal. And we have to note that those data are just the tip of the iceberg. Solo son la point, porque hablamos de lo más grave. Detrás de todo eso subyace un impacto coectivo, emotional disorder. But beyond the facts, I'll ask you now to look inside a little. What data are there, may be interpreted, but the experiences each one has are there, right? Let's look inside and around us. Who has not felt fear, sadness, impatience, discomfort, anxiety, anxiety, or anxiety through the palace? What was the burden, stress, of those who were on the first line on guard duty? Like the pain of those who have lost the beloved person? Many times without goodbye. What was the fear of those who were seriously ill, of their relatives and friends? Like the impatience of those who have lost their job? The one who's been in the ERTA, the one who's been the ones, the one who's been beaten up in the sector? The ones among us who are the most precious and desirable in society, the more and more abject? And so on, etc. Modu batan edo beastan, denok jasan dugu inpaktua. We've all suffered the impact to a greater or lesser extent, but the emotional footprint is there. Wear is collective, and let's not be fooled, because its consequences for many people go beyond what has been called pandemic fatigue. This isn't just tiredness and this isn't just tiredness. There are many experts and professionals who point out that the neurological, psychological and psychiatric repercussions of the pandemic are going to pose a health challenge; not only in the short term, but in the long term, which will entail a health effort over the next few years. And they're talking about years. "Cómo vamos a preparor system para responderine y abordar est, reto?" Nosotras hoy con nuntra propesta planeámos un primer pass. Solo eso, un primer pass. Step one to face this popular challenge. A proposition as definite and as necessary as possible. In other words, the pandemies of COVID-19 have been carefully examined by the members of the community's emotional and mental health, to make a wide and deep diagnosis, considering specific and collective situations, and of course by the agents and professionals who work in mental health. Very clearly, and summarizing, to analyze the impact that the pandemic has had on the mental health of citizens. And we put it this way, as a diagnosis, for several reasons. One, because a diagnosis, in terms of its methodology, alludes in general to a thorough analysis to determine in any situation, in this case, a pandemic and its impact, what are the trends. It is done with data, facts, evidence, about studies and analyses already carried out, and as a whole allows us to judge better what is happening, with a broader look. We need to know exactly what happened, what's happening and what we can expect. And this isn't over yet. So having a good picture of the situation, it will be essential and indispensable to adapt our health system, to take measures, to give it a big answer. And with all this we do not mean that nothing has been done, or that nothing is done. Our goal is not to underestimate the work of the Medical Department today, nor to diminish it. I want to make this clear. Our attitude, with this proposal and mental health in general, is the builder. Considering that the department performs its own analysis, that some of the programs have been put into action, but still look at the data, what data they are. And the data of the programmes which have been started, in use, are high, so that the consequence is to me: what has hitherto been done is not sufficient. And don't take it badly, because I don't say it's wrong, but that it's not enough to do. And it's normal because we're facing a situation and a pandemia that we've never lived. It's overwhelmed us in many ways. And as far as mental health is concerned, it has been historically among the most forgotten in health. La eerna olvidda, dirs. Then think about it. Well, poes, there's a moment for us to breathe, look at all the spikes, study them deep, which at least I don't suppose anyone would deny me that there's been an incest? And if on that path the Department of Health has already made a journey, better than better, because everything adds up and everything is complementary. In fact, we could not do a full X-ray of what is happening and what has happened without the data and knowledge of the public health system. But we have to go further, because precisely from Osakidetza we did not manage to meet all the demand for mental health of the citizenry. There are hundreds of people who come to the private sphere, outside the system, to the offices of therapists, psychologists, psychiatrists, etc. And I'm not going to get into the causes of why this is happening, but the Department of Health doesn't have all the information, because it doesn't treat the mental health of the citizenry as a whole. This is evidence. And you'll have to talk to associations because a lot of people are looking for help in the community. And we need to talk to users and patients, too. Come on. So open your eyes, go beyond the limits, open the doors, open the doors of the department. Get him out of the bureau, too. And we have to do it before it's too late because we're facing a huge challenge. Besides, the law of public health will come in the autumn. We'll have to renew the mental health strategy. And in our opinion, we have to get them both to strengthen mental health, yes or yes. To strengthen, Madame Lodui is not here at this moment, but the facts of her department tell us that in the past decade mental health has lost weight in the budgets of health, which have come to us, eh? It's been ten percent since the medical department's estimates on the mental health. And well, we planned a great enterprise, because we really believe that the challenge before us is a challenge of the people, and that we ought to hold it among them all. We start from the council, from this chamber, from the hands of the populace-makers, and from the common practice, in a collective exercise. And we thought: first, let us propose a diagnosis, make a bold one, make a profound one, because for me, we must all agree that it is necessary. Stop, look what happened. And I think it was a proposition we all could agree with. Basic. But no. I think there's a deal. Or that the original initiative has improved, incluso. I'd like to thank Mr. Hernández for that. But, Mrs. Berrojalbitz, I really hope you'll explain it to me today and explain why you're refusing to be diagnosed, because we've talked a lot about it, and I'm grateful to you, but, well, you've told me that you don't share methodology, that the medical department does an additional analysis. But you don't even offer me an alternative. What's said in your rights. Well, it's said in your corrections to make the most extraordinary attention, isn't it? But we really believe professionals, professional health professionals, are already doing that. So, what are you gonna do to deal with the situation besides paying special attention? Well, and the proposal for today's activities and the last days was to discuss our initiative. He didn't make up his mind to go around that. And, I said, you could've suggested something else, it couldn't be, but it's fine. Eta, besterik gabe, amaitzeko. Baliteke, etzi, partzialki bada ere, maskarak kalean kentzea, bathed her walnut kentzen dugun sheathik beldurra, she walnut gainitzen dugun ezinegona. Because yes, we're going to take off our masks on the street, even in specific situations, but see how hard it is to get rid of fear, anxiety and many other things. Denbora eta artatzea beharko dugu denok horretarako. Eta, well, lends gaitezen horretarako. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u91	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u92	Yes, good afternoon to all. Indeed, we have reached a compromise. The truth is that our group shared, or shared, the bulk of the original initiative presented by Mrs Garde. It is a matter of concern to us and which we have been dealing with in the last few months with our coalition, both here and throughout the State. And I'd like to explain why we're thinking, and we're proposing on that initiative, why we're talking about a specific diagnosis and plan. I think that is a bit, let us say, the focus of the initiative, of the proposal, and so it seems that there is no agreement with the groups supporting the Government. We believe that at this time public health needs to take into account the specific, specific and additional impact, which has entailed the new risks arising from the pandemic. I am talking about things like confinement, social distancing, the lack of socialization, frustration, fear, uncertainty about health, to which socio-economic effects have been added that have mainly affected people with lower incomes. This has led – here are the data – to an increase in cases of anxiety, depression, stress, pathological suffering, unfavorable rapid evolution of dementia, alcohol abuse and other addictions and adaptive disorders. To which may be added other cases that may arise in the medium term, such as post-traumatic stress disorders, and increased risk of suicidal behaviour and self-injury. We therefore consider it essential to strengthen the care framework in Osakidetza and to take specific action in this area after the pandemic. For indeed we will be told that there is a mental health service in Osakidetza; this is so. That there is a job, that you do a job regularly, but what we are talking about is a diagnosis and a specific plan. As you know, Unidad Podemos has put forward a proposal for a mental health law in Congress. This proposal, which is actually similar to the one we already presented in 2019, but which includes on this occasion – I am referring to this – a specific section focusing on mental health problems aggravated during the pandemic. In particular, Article 35 of the proposal is entirely dedicated to the care of people affected by the health crisis, with specific programmes to identify mental health disorders, or the conduct of research studies that address both the symptoms of the infection and other symptoms originating in the context of the pandemic. Well, I do not intend to use this debate to advertise that proposal. What I want is to use it to show our coalition's concern about this issue, and also to show the approach we have to it. It is, in our opinion, a great and specific – and I reiterate myself as specific – impact of the pandemic on mental health, which we believe requires action, precisely, specific, in response to that impact. That is why we put forward a specific plan. And to make it, logically, a specific diagnosis and, of course, adequate and well elaborated. Secondly, we included, through our amendment, a diagnosis that takes into account certain variables, and I would like to explain why we give them importance: variables of age, gender and social reality. It is shown that, as it descends in the social class, in the level of studies, when the area of residence has greater deprivation or the difficulties to reach the end of the month are greater, the prevalence of anxiety and depression is greater. And mental health problems in general, too. Anxiety and depression problems are one of the main factors in health loss. The main determinants of these problems are of a socio-economic nature, and are therefore beyond the individual characteristics. There's a painting that's very simple, so I take it out, because I think it looks like it's very graphic. A table in which we can see the mental health data referring to the Basque population, the Basque population, according to different axes of social inequality: social class, educational level, level of socio-economic deprivation of the area of residence and economic difficulty to reach the end of the month. These factors are taken into account in the development of this table, and it is very visual. The percentage of the population without symptoms of anxiety and depression is higher among the population of the highest classes; that is, the economic insecurity of people with less economic resources makes them suffer more mental disorders. And in the case of women, too, more. There is, therefore, a gender bias, which is another of the issues that we include, which must also be addressed in a specific way. And the same is true of age, as Mrs Garde has also mentioned, where young people have a greater impact on mental health in this case as a result of the pandemic. And then, a third question that we raised, concerning ensuring the increase of resources, that well, we know that this is always one of the fights. We propose better psychiatric care, increasing resources in a very concrete way on this occasion: we have proposed the improvement of the staffing of clinical psychologists in primary care. It is a proposal that may not need much explanation. What I am going to do is to quote the Euskadi Federation from associations of family members and people with mental health problems, which I also think met not too long ago with the counselor, and following that meeting they raised a very concrete thing, which I am going to quote: "With the same resources we cannot respond to exceptional situations such as those we are currently experiencing, if it is not at the expense of diminishing the quality of care in other services equally necessary". These were his words, which our coalition certainly shares. And based on them, we make this concrete approach, a concrete proposal, this over-employment of psychologists in primary care, which is related, and that is why we put it, with the very shortcomings that the system already had before the pandemic. The ratio of professionals to users in services is reduced in Primary Care in Osakidetza. People with mental illness require a time of professional care. And this we think is not being taken into account in relation to the impact of the pandemic. This situation is leading to a decrease in the quality of care provided, because it is also an overload of work for the professionals. In our opinion, primary care does not currently have sufficient psychologists. And we think that measures must also be put in place to resolve it. Because this increases the rapid psychiatric consultations of the public network, but also of the private network. And it also produces an effect that is that of the hypermedicalization of this group of patients. We think that, if we want better mental health, we need, first of all, to improve the population's mental health diagnosis, in this case specifically in relation to the impact of the pandemic. And this happens, among other things, to improve individual diagnoses. This requires an increase in the amount of time each primary care physician can spend on each patient, so that the clinicians have enough time to understand what the patients are asking them. That is, to do a good screening in Primary Care, more professionals are needed. The lack of professionals and therefore of this time for patients facilitates, as I said, the prescription of psychopharmaceuticals – which is an issue that should also be analyzed in this specific diagnosis – prevents an adequate approach to the real causes underlying mental health problems. In short, it is clear that the current situation is having important health, social, economic, labour and personal effects that directly and significantly affect the mental health of people, both of those who already had a previous health problem and of those who are at risk of developing it as a result of the pandemic. As a result of this impact, levels of anxiety, fear, loneliness, social distance, uncertainty and stress have spread and increased in recent months. And that is why we think that specific specific attention is needed, as I pointed out at the beginning in the intervention, and as I believe the initiative proposes. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u93	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners, because they're not departments right now. Well, we're facing an important issue. We've discussed this subject several times, and we've had a chance to know it better. And it is plain that COVID-19 had the influence of mental health, and that we must consider what is proper, and that, according to this, it is proper to meet a definite plan with measures. From this Illustus, we have well seen the proposed proposal, but we have also introduced our correction. The impact on mental health of COVID-19, the pandemic, is evident; it has had obvious impacts on the emotional health of Basque citizens. And this is something undeniable and unquestionable. First, confinement and isolation measures, which entailed limitations on fundamental rights. That it was necessary at that time, this type of limitation, to deal with the high incidence rates that we had and, above all, with the aid pressure and also with the aim of stopping the transmission of the virus. But we must not deny that these measures have clearly affected our day-to-day lives, especially the most vulnerable groups and people, such as the elderly or those living alone. To this we must also join the scenario of uncertainty in which most of society could be immersed, not knowing when the pandemic would end, what would happen. And, above all, I want to remember and I want to make a special reference to those people who have been able to lose their jobs, who have been in a difficult employment and economic situation. I believe that, in that sense, the uncertainty for these people has been much more severe. No doubt new pathologies have emerged and some of the existing pathologies have also been aggravated. Mostly, many episodes have appeared related to anxiety, fear, loneliness, stress, insomnia, that are there, and that, above all, as I say, have appeared as a result of the situation and the emotional effects of the pandemic. In this regard, we believe it is appropriate to know the causes and to carry out a thorough analysis of this situation and how it has had an impact on the various groups and people. As has been said here, there are associations, such as Fedeafes, which has already requested more investment in what is mental health. We also believe that it was an outstanding subject and certainly that many of the issues or shortcomings that could surround mental health care in the area of primary care have become more evident or highlighted throughout this pandemic. In that regard, we had tabled an amendment in its entirety, talking about the conduct of an analysis. And, in this regard, once this analysis was carried out, the necessary measures were taken to strengthen the mental health network in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We added a second point which, in principle, has not been included in the compromise amendment. I understand that this is also a broader and more specific debate. And perhaps it goes beyond the scope of this initiative, but we have also dealt with it in some other initiative and in some other debate with Mrs Kortajarena, with regard also to people in this situation, who were left outside the GIR. And we were talking about the deficiency or deficit of mental illness places in homes in the foral area. And, in this regard, we call for increased funding for mental illness places in social and health spending agreements, in order to provide economic coverage for the necessary growth in the number of places in the three territories. I understand that this issue has not been taken up, rather, because we have preferred to focus the compromise amendment on what analysis and measures are. And we, in that sense, are going to accept the compromise amendment, because it is also in the spirit of our initiative, although I say that this second point has not been taken up. And as for the amendment of the groups that support the government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, that is, it is not that it seems wrong to me, but I do believe that you could be more ambitious. That is to say, the Basque Government is urged to keep mental health services alert to the emotional consequences and, in particular, to the mental health that the pandemic could have caused, well, what less mental health services are always vigilant. Not now, but always. I believe that perhaps the groups supporting the Government could have been not so conservative, and have been a little more ambitious and have dared to put forward an analysis of the situation which, as I say, I believe deserves specific attention to the consequences on mental health of the pandemic situation and, above all, on the most vulnerable groups. We have seen many reports, and I believe that they are very prolific, very thorough. And also the suicide rates themselves – we, my colleague José Manuel Gil, will ask a question about this issue tomorrow – has also had an impact on the increase in suicides. They are therefore realities that are there, that must be addressed, that they cannot be turned away and that, of course, they must be treated with the rigour and the appropriate measures. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u95	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u96	Thank you, President. I'll try to be brief. I believe we all share that, although the crisis caused by COVID-19 is, first of all, a physical health crisis, it has also had an important impact on the emotional well-being of each of us, something we have all suffered. The first situation of widespread disconcertingness, the fear of the unknown and the impact of the great number of lives that were lost caused us all a discomfort, in our own perception of the situation, important. And this also joined the limitation of our social relations, as has been said, derived from confinement, which, in general, raised our levels of anxiety and stress. But, along with this widespread condition, the incidence has been higher in vulnerable populations. Older persons, children and adolescents, together with those who have suffered in their own flesh the economic and labour consequences of the loss of their jobs. In one way or another, by influencing some factors or others, all the parliamentary groups that have intervened on this point have agreed to affirm as a fact that impact of the pandemic on our mental health. And the truth is, if we do, it's because there's an important acceptance of this premise. From the first moments of the pandemic, mental health aspects came to warn of these risks. And the truth is that different international agencies have come to highlight it, making recommendations to address this issue. One of the main and first contributions was that made in May 2020 in the United Nations report, COVID-19 and the need to act in relation to mental health. And from that point on, beyond general notes and abstract recommendations, the study of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our mental health and emotional well-being has acquired an important relevance, and on these dates, already with important studies at international, European and national level. In this sense, there are a large number of publications from expert groups, associations, mental health confederations that have studied the effects of the pandemic on the mental health and emotional state of society. Some of them revolve around specific population sectors, such as childhood, adolescence, older, vulnerable people and women; others, around sociodemographic, environmental and occupational variables. And the truth is that, regardless of the geographical scope where these studies are carried out, the conclusions are coincident. Therefore, we consider that, in this aspect of knowledge of the reality of the consequences at the psychological level, there is already an important work done, which brings together conclusions and that perhaps we should reflect on whether it is necessary to carry out a new concrete study. It is wiser to take advantage of the abundant bibliography and works with which we already count, and its conclusions. For example, from UPV/EHU and, in collaboration with UNED, the University of Barcelona, the University of Granada, the University of Murcia and Miguel Hernández University, a research report entitled The Psychological Consequences of COVID-19 and Confinement has been presented. This study has been conducted by Nekane Balluerka and explores the entire degree of psychological affection of the population and deepens the areas of concern of the citizenry regarding the COVID-19. The research, with qualitative and quantitative exploration, establishes conclusions and recommendations that are plausible, and in which almost 8% of the participants in the study came from Euskadi. Therefore, we believe that the impact of the pandemic on the mental and emotional health of society is already very determined and analyzed in all these works, and that, taking advantage of them, the important thing is that the Basque Government ensures that Osakidetza's mental health services remain particularly vigilant in the face of these emotional and mental health consequences, ensuring care by the mental health network when required, and that for all this they have the experience and knowledge of professionals, experts, agents and associations who carry out their work in the field of mental health at the VAC. And that is what we have in our amendment. As you know – because he has been transferred to this House through the documentation he has sent to us during these months to the Department of Health – this has been a concern for Osakidetza. Since March 2020, a specific programme of first telephone and telematic care has been launched for emotional events related to the covid crisis, which involves continuous and systematic attention to these events, with concrete actions, and which also allows for the possible referral to primary care or mental health when deemed necessary, which is also reinforced by the publication of these types of resources through the Osakidetza website in Osasun Eskola. And in the case of mental health networks and hospital services, there have been timely reinforcements and an approach to future growth in resources – day hospitals, increase in hospital beds –, usually related to areas where there has been an increase in the number of cases, such as the one mentioned in the case of child and youth mental health, as reflected, of course, in the strategic framework referred by the department to this House. We were wondering how we were getting ready. The budget finally allocated to mental health in the years 2020 and 2021 was increased by five and almost ten million euros, respectively, if compared to the pre-pandemic year 2019. Finally, I think it is important to send a message to our citizens: Osakidetza's mental health services are particularly vigilant about the emotional consequences and, in particular, about the effects that the pandemic may have left on mental health. And with them, other institutional areas also add to this concern, such as Portugalete, Ermua, very recently the Bilbao City Council, which have put in place additional emotional support measures that continue to be a strengthening of the Community response area that we offer from the Basque institutions. That is what we are focused on, because we are aware of that need. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u97	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Congressmen, good evening to all. When I read this experience, I thought of the importance of the subject, and I saw that we shared with the group which introduced the initiative, and so commented on Mrs. Garde, the care and priority of the subject. And so I thought we ought to send a message of agreement, so that society can see the importance of mental health and the special attention of the health department. Hence, in order to obtain the medium of the attempts we have made, the mental health, as we have pointed out to each other, requires special attention, as it is in the present medical system, but we must send a clear message, as we did in 2017, with an institutional expression. Because it is reasonable to think that the stress we have been subjected to by situations of confinement, vital and economic uncertainty, very worrying information and, in the most extreme cases, loss of loved ones, have been able to generate an increase in emotional discomfort. In the most vulnerable groups, children, adolescents and the elderly, there has been an increase in the number of cases of moderate and high severity: more income, more consultation and more urgency. And, in these cases, deterioration is not evident both in psychological symptoms and in the range of cognitive deterioration. And that's where the Department of Health should continue to pay special attention. And hence the proposal for our amendment. So that the whole conformity to the subject and care that the initiative brings us, if we remove the eternal justification, as they appear to be the source of original activity: "Collaborational collapse," "preference." It's true, the range has hit us hard, but we can say that these assertions are far from reality. These accusations have no foundation, because there is no proof of them. But, as I have said, I shall confine myself to the mental health theme, apart from the assertions that appear to her. And, as has been said, our teams and departments, and members of the health department, we agree with the importance of the initiative, both mental health and emotional health, carefully acting with the subject, and examining the influences of preliminaries, mental and emotional health. Eta, lan hau traina askorekin egiten da, batha ez taldeek proposatzen duzuen gaurko trenarekin: diagnosis batekin. Eta, heifer, Egypt, ze motatako diagnostikoa proposedzen duzue? Zer motatako diagnosing litzateke? Inkestak? Egyptian will say. Adibidez: the most accurate, the health survey, which is carried out systematically over specified periods of time. Therefore, the objective data (number of diagnoses of psychiatric disorders, frequency of specific consultations, use of public resources...) already have them by the Department of Health. You're asking for tests? In this area, which is called the Children and Young, or Infantojuvenil, they are considering it. And, for example, it's been planned to put psychiatric attacks in hospital submarines. But it must be observed, that in the demands made by groups, the availability of children's psychiatrists, we all know that, although they are willing, there is want, or that they are not? And that's in the children's field. Even in the owners, as regards the model for long-term surveillance. And the case of the activities connected with all those who are of a more powerful collective condition has been extremely useful to establish the exact measures taken by the Medical Department and Osarides. Eta análisis eta inketak ez badira, ikusita egiten say it, txostenak izango dira eskatzen dena. Rico jaunak ere komentatu duen bezala, ikeketa-txostenak ere badaude, hor dago EHUko adituek egindako ikeketa-txostena, Nekane Balluerka buru izan delarik. Orduan, azterlanak izango say dena eskatzen? Ba baita, egiten will say: analysis of the Advisory Council on Mental Health in areas such as psychiatry of children and adolescents, personality disorders, the model of integration, dual pathology, eating disorders, prevention of suicidal behaviour, stigma and mental health, and a long time and so on in these analyses of the Advisory Council on Mental Health. As can be seen or appreciated, with the X-ray that is obtained from all these analyses, the department has not left its arms crossed, it has acted, for example, by increasing investments in children's mental health, opening day hospitals and developing the strategy of suicide prevention. I recommend reading all these studies, because, if they were to review them – and it has occurred to me, because I am not an expert in this matter – besides finding a lot of wisdom and precision, they would check the lack of consistency of their initiative. They want what we already have, but with a nuance: they want us, the groups, to enter also a field, that of mental health, of which almost none is known. As is often said, "Zapatero, to your shoes", let's let those who do know what they are talking about: professionals, experts, agents and associations who act in the field of mental health. And, without prejudice to the fact that you know that all these agents are analyzing, working and observing in this matter, it is you, Mrs Garde, who tell me that we maintain a red line. It is you who have marked us an immobile red line, not moving that position. To plan an extraordinary action now for the diagnosis of the mental health of society is not going to bring new elements regarding what is already happening at the moment and that comes from the action proper to the health system, when, moreover, today, we have already been told the results of this diagnosis, when they already tell us that it is deteriorated and they are already putting forward concrete proposals. They require a diagnosis, but in advance they already bring us here previously proposals and conclusions. Without prejudice to that, we do find it necessary to devote special attention to mental health, even though Mrs Garrido considers that the courageous and revolutionary thing is to ask for a diagnosis. But we have tabled an amendment in which we see a need to devote special attention to mental health, given the importance that we, our parliamentary group, Osakidetza and the Department of Health attach to it, in line with the needs that can be verified from all the reports, analyses and studies mentioned. But that does, without mixing concepts and without alarmisms. Since the onset of the crisis, more or less accredited augurs announced a wave of psychiatric pathology after the COVID-19. In spring 2020 some experts introduced the idea of a second wave of emotional and psychological repercussions after the pandemic; in summer, the future emergency of suffering would be the third wave; in winter it became the fourth, and so on. But the reality is that in 2020 the mental health network, for example, Bizkaia's, recorded a 20% reduction in its first consultations and a decrease of 3,000 new patients compared to the previous year. At the time of the toughest confinement the reduction in accessibility to primary and specialized care consultations could explain this decrease, obviously, but this year, with face-to-face consultations in mental health centers, the number of new patients, extrapolating the data to April, would be below those of previous years, 2,500 more or less, lower than the number of consultations in 2019. And the problem is not the wave of discomfort and pandemic fatigue, but knowing how to detect new serious patients in time. The care and resources devoted to mental health can always be strengthened, it is clear, and that is the spirit of this Government: to provide an ever better service, but the data also tells us that Euskadi is among the best endowed communities, with more than 1,500 professionals in the mental health network, to which should be added the resources of the agreed or agreed services. And with this situation, the hospital and community mental health services, except for the infant-juvenile casuistic, which I have already commented on earlier, have worked normally. The same with the waiting lists in the mental health network, which have been kept within the usual forks of variation, so yes: Osakidetza is adequately attending to mental health. No less striking is the allegation of some parliamentary group calling for improved mental health services by linking the covid with a high suicide rate, although there are still no data to establish such an association. In fact, with the data we do have from January to May 2021, and extrapolating them all year round, the number of suicides this 2021 would be down from 2020 by 39%. It is also indicated that much of the citizenry has had symptoms of anxiety or depression since the onset of the crisis. Fear, boredom, concern, discouragement, are normal human reactions in an abnormal situation that is prolonging and that leads to some people's death of loved ones, loss of work and job insecurity, but they are not sick. And referring to mental health services the solution to uncertainty, fatigue and distress due to the socio-economic conditions resulting from an unpredictable crisis is, at least, questionable. People have more capacity for confrontation and psychological resistance than some seem to presume. We have mechanisms to prevent that situation from significantly affecting our health. This strategy to claim services has dangerous consequences, such as psychiatricizing normal human reactions, convincing the population that their discomfort needs technical help. And another danger: devoting resources to these alleged needs involves detracting them from those dedicated to people with serious disorders. And all this I do not say, that I have no knowledge in this matter, is said by two psychiatrists from the mental health network of Bizkaia, Mr Medrano and Mr Uriarte, who shared an article published two months ago, from where I have extracted my two previous paragraphs. At this uncertain time, the responsibility is to give an adequate response to the real needs with all the resources, programmes and aid that Osakidetza puts on the table, which I will expose in my second intervention, but in no way threaten repeatedly with epidemics of suffering that really end up overflowing with mental health services and diverting them from their care priorities. It's important to us that the effort, the effort, the program, the help, and the co-operation to mental and emotional health is very important to us. That's why we've rectified it, we've already told Osace, the Medical Department, that through this initiative, he has to pay special attention to it. But we don't see, for all I've said before, from the tests that are done, from reports, incests, and so many programs, we don't need the diagnosis that he did. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing on to the line that hasn't been running, Mistto, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly, I will use this time to explain our position on a matter as worrying as this. The pandemic and its management have also been a breeding ground for mental problems of a very diverse nature. And I am not only talking about diseases, but also about previous pathology, which should focus much of the efforts of the Basque Government and the health administration. Soon we will face problems that are latent today, which have not yet manifested themselves: loneliness, fear, distrust, stress, anxiety. Not to mention the drama of thousands and thousands of people, who have lost close relatives overnight, who have not even been able to say goodbye to them. And we must not forget also those who lived from something and now can barely live. Many thousands of people who have had to give up their business project, who have lost hope, who don't know how they're going to get through this mess their whole family. All this is going to pass the bill, no doubt. And preventing it should be a priority objective, of course for the Basque Government. It is not so much a question of having more beds for the mentally ill, or of encrypting the extent of mental illness in our region. There is a need for hope, more confidence, and more clarity in the messages. We need to trust in the future, stop fearing each other. We need to regain some optimism. Open our business with guarantees, and get up every morning with a desire to live the day. This Government should strive to do so. First, attention to the mental problems that have already manifested themselves, of course. But then a lot of prevention, so that those around the mental illness don't get to suffer it. And if that happens, more resources, of course, to help them. But let us not forget that the most important thing is prevention, and that is what we believe most necessary right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u101	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In answer, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u102	Thank you. Well, I'd like to replicate it by saying that it was very important for us that the Basque People is unique. For this reason, also, it was important for us to do with the consent of the subject, and from the uneasiness we all share, I thought we shared, but I see that it is not absurd, that we should have a common agreement, but it has not been possible. This is the first time. During the whole of Pandemia, this Chamber is the first time that we've discussed and discussed the health and emotional health of the people around 15 months of pandemia. For the first time, there's been other discussions like that about the pandemia's impact, no. For the first time, through the whole pandemia, and well, we've talked a lot about the pandemy caused by COVID-19 and the consequences of it, of course, has always been a central theme. We've talked about the prevention of virus, health system, sector influence, economy, culture, protection system, etc. We have talked about infinity of things, discussed proposals related to the pandemic and its consequences, but this is the first one we address from the perspective of the emotional and mental health of citizens; of all of us. Because I won't get tired of saying it, it's all ours. Although well, it seems that here you are superstrong, it has not affected you at all, you have all the mechanisms to respond, but in the case of many people it is not. And without drama, I haven't talked about waves. But, well, the data is there. Datuak will say. Nik ez had to be asthmatuous. Well, to a greater or lesser extent, it has touched us all, in very different ways. And it's the first time we've discussed it, and it's no coincidence: it's part of the historical and systematic silence that involves mental health. It's part of the stigma and taboo. And at least if something good has had the pandemic in that sense, it has given visibility to something that has always been invisible. Gauzak horrella, pandemiaren 15 philabeteren bueltan, zail-zail hauen osteon, esku artean ditugun datuekin, bi kontu azpimarratzea: herritarren osasun mentalari garrantzia, lekua eta denbora eman behar dizkiogu. One must focus on the importance of emotional and mental health in life. And this just to start, to open the melon a little bit, which is so fat, as far as mental health is concerned. To lay down minimum bases and things that are a little unquestionable, and that was my intention, our intention, with this initiative. And we have done, come on, with a rather calm debate, trying to reach agreements. It's begiratu zer topatu dugun. Well, and in the face of other challenges that come too. Not only do we respond to the impact of the pandemic: the public health law comes, the renewal of the strategy and mental health plans, the budgets themselves... Let's see if they let us get involved in this, because come on, it's hard. Because since you guys already have it all done, and it's all great. And related to this, in order to respond to all this, it is important for us to know what situation we are in. Because the Department of Health has all the data, but we don't have the rest. Un dianóstico, pedíamos. The studio, the polls, no. O se, it is: Take all that is done, and then come together and see what reality is. And the health department would say: "Look, this is the situation." With all our exams, everyone's hands, EHU, all those who have been made. And the department's polling. After all, this is the situation. And that's what we're going to answer. That's what we wanted. Hey, a pandemic, we weren't expecting it. It's had a serious impact that we couldn't imagine. But I'm not saying it. I mean, what's happened to child services is serious. And it's there, and I'm not making it up. Vamos a darle el sitio, y el análisis sosecado y exhaustivo que pedía. Pero well, you, ya esta, it's already done, pollas, data, exams, etc. Well, we'll ask you for it. Let's hope they're made public and that we all can see them. Just like that. The matter, the mental health, needs and deserves our attention, our work, and our strength. Let's break the stigmas and taboos. Let's go strengthen the mental health nets. Let's work on prevention because you said: Take care of the gravity. No, we'll have to take care of them before they're in gravity. Muy bien. Let's go take care of the pandema chaos, which is what it is. You will have us on that account, but to do things, when you are really willing to cooperate, you have, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, my number.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u103	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Together, Mr. Hernandez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u104	I have been reviewing, following Mrs Berrojalbiz's intervention, I have been reviewing the justification made by Mrs Garde of the initiative, because I was saying, "Well, I too have forgotten." I read it at the time to make the amendment, and I say, "Let's see what they put, that I don't remember, where the PNV sees that kind of aggression to what the government has done or stopped doing." And the truth is, I've read the justification and I think it makes a description of what happened during the pandemic. Well, it may include some very slight elements of criticism, so I have just read in a quick look, and to specific situations that have passed, of lack of safety in workers, which, moreover, at first we have already discussed in this Parliament, which no one could foresee. That is why I do not understand either, because I have heard Mr Rico, the Socialist Party, who has explained that, well, they do not agree that a specific diagnosis should be made, he has explained the reasons, he has explained what is done, etc. But the Basque Nationalist Party because I see that it has needed to explain that there is some sort of Seek and Destroy in the opposition, with an initiative like this. The truth is, I don't understand. Look, I can understand what you're saying: already surveys are done, already reports are made, already studies are made. All right. What is proposed here is a concrete diagnosis, which can also perfectly take into account all these studies, as in most of the diagnoses that are made, but a diagnosis of Osakidetza specific to the impact of the pandemic on mental health, which is what was proposed, and which does not mean that Osakidetza is doing nothing with regard to the pandemic on mental health, but a concrete diagnosis and, with it, a concrete plan, which is what was proposed here. And perhaps, if it had been negotiated, it may also be true that a concrete diagnostic agreement could have been reached and, if necessary, a concrete plan, if the need for a concrete plan were to be deduced from that diagnosis. Because we believe that, with this transaction, with this proposal, we are not making the diagnosis, as we were told. We have given some general data, which you are known, which you know, and which you yourself have also put on the table in this debate. The diagnosis, obviously, will have to do, will have to be directed by the professionals, in this case, from Osakidetza or the Department of Health. And it is that at the same time we have been told that we are already making the diagnosis, but we have also been asked or in some way asked what kind of diagnosis we are proposing. So, are we doing the diagnosis or are we just asking for a diagnosis? I think we're only asking for a specific diagnosis, because we think the situation requires it. And then there is one thing that attracts my attention, because it has come out many times in these health debates and that, in part, I agree and I have given reason many times when we have been told. You said, "Shoesman to your shoes, leave the experts." Well, this is a political initiative. This is a political initiative that talks about making a diagnosis and making a plan. There are experts, you mentioned them, two psychiatrists, if I remember correctly. And there are other experts. I imagine that Mrs Garde, when she brings this initiative, has also spoken to experts. I don't think it occurred to Mrs. Garde one good day, up there, in the office, to do that. And of course, to me, when I make such an amendment, when I have made this amendment, then, I say to you or to you that I am not up there sitting and I say well, I will see what I put. We talk, we talk to people who, logically, know. There are many who are telling us: of course it would be good to have a specific diagnosis. And people who are Osakidetza workers. And I don't think some are worth more than others. No, the ones I consult are not worth more than the ones you consult. But in the face of this, you can't say "slipper to your shoes", because you are proposing a diagnosis, simply a diagnosis. And I therefore believe that we need to be careful with that, because if not this Parliament, then we could hardly talk about anything. We could talk about very general statements, to which we are often also told: "Why do you bring such general statements here." Then I think we'll talk about one. And with the theme – just to mention it – with the theme of reducing consultations. I, on some other occasion, with another health issue too, have already commented on this. I think that with this we have to be careful, because it is one of the things that will also have to be analyzed, and that the famous experts also tell us: the reduction of consultations does not mean reduction of pathologies and needs in health; in mental health and in general health. We also need to consider why, why, during the pandemic, people are less likely to go to certain consultations. I think we need to be careful with that, too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u105	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euskal Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative, Mrs Garrido from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u106	Madam President, with the permission of the presidency, I shall do so from the seat. I simply believe that I cannot understand that it is not shared that we must strengthen mental health and, above all, with the scenario we have, the impact on the mental and emotional health of people and, especially, the most vulnerable, the situation of the pandemic. That is why I believe, Mrs Berrojalbiz, that, in this sense, I do not think self-congratulation can be achieved. And I say it with all modesty and with all due respect. And I thought I saw too much complacency in your intervention. And they're already studying... Yes, if we know them, of course, it is that there are specific organs of the Basque Government, it would be missing more, than with the amount of millions that we have, 11 billion euros, almost 12 billion euros of budget of the Basque Government, there will be no studies on topics that concern and important issues for Basque citizens. But we're not talking about that. We are talking about a matter that has acquired special relevance, following the pandemic and, as I say, with an impact on people's mental health, with specific episodes that have become acute, others that have appeared and deserve special attention. And, in that sense, I believe that we cannot conform or adopt an attitude consistent with the studies that can be done, and the statistics that the Basque Government does. I believe that this issue deserves specific treatment, that we have that diagnosis, that X-ray of what the situation is, and especially of very vulnerable people and groups. I'm remembering the elderly in the residences. I'm remembering the people who live alone. We cannot respond to these people with statistics or studies that the Basque Government is already doing. No, no, I think they deserve special attention, with the situation they've been through. So, what I am telling you again, I think your amendment could have been more ambitious. And, if not, having sought a somewhat broader meeting point, going beyond its amendment, with the rest of the groups, which had an opportunity, having seen the approaches that the rest of the groups had in our amendments as a whole. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u107	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u108	Thank you, Madam President. I think this is an issue that we all care about. And I'm not going here to compete, to see who cares more, who cares less. But it's not true that this is the first time we've discussed this. This is the first time that EH Bildu has brought this to Parliament. But we talked about mental health when, for example, the department's own strategy was presented, and it devotes a whole part to mental health. We talked about mental health when we approved budgets, where there are increases, I told you, of up to 10 million euros compared to the pre-pandemic year 2019, in mental health. And I also tell you, we also talk to people who care about these issues, and we have even participated. I remember a participation with Laura Garrido; we were at the Forum of Depression and Suicide in the Basque Country, and we participated, the different groups that were invited by that association and by that forum. And we also received, of course, information from so many professionals from Osakidetza who are dedicated to this area. I told him I'm not going to compete in who's the person who's most interested in this. And today this initiative that brings EH Bildu brings it to the Basque Parliament. But this initiative is not new for EH Bildu either. It is that this initiative EH Bildu has taken it to the municipalities of Euskadi. And every city council has asked for a diagnosis to be made. And that doesn't sound serious to me. I don't think that's serious. The last time, in the May plenary of the Bilbao City Council, where, by the way, an amendment proposed by the health councilwoman Yolanda Díez of the Socialist Party was agreed, and supported also by EH Bildu and Podemos, which was finally approved. And it's to establish that pilot project that I told you about in my first intervention. Therefore, I tell you, Mrs Garde, I am not going to compete for who is the one who cares most about mental health. But by asking every institution to make the same diagnosis, I don't think it's showing any greater concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u109	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. I've said it before. As a general approach, I would say that the initiative makes a reading that can be, and is, adjusted in its description to what has been lived. But it is not necessarily linked to the conclusions reached. A diagnosis. But what kind? What is the discrepancy between the analyses, reports and surveys that Mr. Rico and I have cited? What experts are you talking about, other than what you already know? Associations, agents, experts, professionals, doctors, psychiatrists... Which different experts wish to group in this diagnosis? What diagnosis do you want to make, other than what you've already made? In his reply, I have not seen anyone counter any of what Mr. Rico and I have said. All I've seen is criticism for not accepting his open diagnosis. That's all Mr. Rico and I know about the diagnosis they're asking for. The impact of the pandemic on our lives is evident. It's obvious. I do not know what part of my speech you have heard. But I have already said this; the impact that the pandemic has had on our lives is evident. The adaptive capacity of society has also been high. And the response that the public authorities are giving, constant. Although, as I have already mentioned, it seems that they do not want to listen to me either, always with a vision of improvement. We've got to get better. Yes, Mrs. Garrido, who said no improvement? I've told you there's no need to make a diagnosis like the one you raise. And I have given data, figures, to counter your claims. I have not heard any information in that regard, Mr Hernández. And at this point I would like to point out, because I did not say this in my first speech, that work that the public authorities are doing, constantly, in this case the Department of Health and Osakidetza, in this area, without prejudice to the fact that, as I say again, it is always with a vision of improvement. I would like to mention the emotional support plan for patients, family and professionals, in operation since March last year, with individual, group, face-to-face or telematic sessions, which has helped more than 5,000 people. Programme which, by the way, for those who claim reports, also has its corresponding report and study. Another of the tools launched by Osakidetza for all citizens is the enabling of the department's website, through Osasun Eskola, with information and simple advice for managing the emotional situation. By May 2021, more than 22,000 people had accessed it and 8% had completed the self-assessment test of their emotional burden. Very useful projects taking into account the objectives set by Osasun Eskola. And more: the Betirako program, paying attention to mourning for people who have lost loved ones to the covid. And this is joined by the recent incorporation of Osakidetza's surveillance and tracking network into the task of detecting people with emotional support needs as a result of the pandemic. And all this, accompanied by a greater budget allocation, and I give you the absolute figures, because in your first intervention I thought I heard you say, and in the second one you confirmed, that the budget has been reduced in matters of mental health. The amount of the contract program and concerts increases from 185 million to 189 million. Increased investments in mental health, 1.4 million, accounting for 2% of all investments, compared to 0.47% in 2020. The chapter on transfers, subsidies and current expenditure, which, while rising by 1.2%, there are certain items, such as social and health care, which rise by 63.5% and reflect the increase in the agreement on serious mental disorder with the Bizkaia District Council. Esan duzu ez dituzula datuak asmatu, bathe esan duzu aurrekontuak jaitsi egin say it, eta hori ez da egia, datuek exacten doten bezala. And given the above, and given the replies, I am concerned about the catastrophe and the biased comparison of the partial and punctual data, because you know that mental and emotional health is something that concerns and occupies this parliamentary group and the Basque Government, and it is a priority of the Department of Health, and not as Mrs Gorrotxategi defined it the other day in the past full of control, as a subsidiary issue, but as a main task. Mental and emotional health is a relevant, very complex issue, on which technicians and experts are continuously working, are in constant observation and study, with a large number of professionals. We know it's never enough. We know it'll take more, and that's where the Department of Health works. And that, yes, with more budget. We therefore, Osamate, by our correction, ask him to pay special attention to the emotional effects of the pandemics, and especially to the mental health, and, if need be, to secure his attention to the mental web of health, by the experience and knowledge of the workers, operators, and societies which always work in this field. And hope, all of us, with the care of mental and emotional health which we have published today, and the privilege we have given him, and, as Mr. Rico has said, no one has a greater or less priority; we all give it importance, care, or preference to this matter. And then I hope Mrs. Garde, seeing what we have requested in our corrections, and Mrs. Garde, seeing your honesty and share of purpose I have seen before the discussion, that the consent of this legislature should be a support and protection to mental health, protecting our corrections. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Mist must not take the word. So, when we finish the discussion, we're gonna vote for EH and we're together with the middle-direction that Podemos-IU signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the companies are 42; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 42; the contrary is the abscessions, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u112	The middle-line correction has not been accepted. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 41; the abscesssion, 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u113	Not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the total amendment presented by the Basque Socialists and by the Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; 41; the opponents are 22; the contrary is the 10th, the 10th; the white is 0.1, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, and the 10th;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u114	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. The eighth point in the subject list: "Egree, and together with the other proposal as the Parliamentary Podemos-IU teams made, concerning the state of the Tubacex. Discipline and final resolution. On the page of the proposed team Mr. Casanova, representing the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u115	[[Berber]] Well, we've reached the last point of this session, but well, as the Anglo-Saxons say, last but not least. This point is of no importance at all. First of all, two hugs: one for the members of the Tubacex company with us, and another for the Sub-Solea, a member of the LAB, a member of the ITP company, who has been called to declare today for the possible troubles in a picnic. He has been obliged to declare himself at the funeral, and from this point of view our most pleasant and warm union. These, and these days, these weeks and months, all the unionists who are defending their rights. It's true, there's movement in our streets lately. Our hundred producers are shaking. The effects of crisis are still being detected, and many companies are in trouble; At Petronor, at ITP, Aernova, Alestes, Gestamp, Bilbo lights... All of us, I don't want to underestimate anyone, but the struggle of the Tubacex has taken a special turn on it, on the one hand, for the number of complicated workers, but also for the mobilisation that has been active. And I think they've become real, not just in this company, not just for the surrounding villages, but for the whole Basque Country and the whole worker. There is an exemplary struggle between the staff of Tubaceše, and many of the workers are identified by their struggle. Because they think they're right, and I think they're building a branch of satisfaction in the sight of so many inexpensive practices that they've been exhibiting the patriarchal for some time now. We know that, with the struggle of Tubacex and the workers of Tubacex, they are protecting not only their rights and their jobs, but the rights and jobs of all the workers of this country, because they are demonstrating that we cannot act with impunity against that job and against those rights. That is why they have unleashed the wave of solidarity that they have unleashed. That is why your camp at the entrance to the factory has become a benchmark of dignity for this entire country. And, moreover, they are not only working or receiving solidarity, but, with great generosity, they are distributing that solidarity wherever there is a conflict. Eskerrik asko, benetan. Ze, azken finan, hemen pultsu ideologiko bat dago. Pultsu ideologiko handia. Ez da soilik taken beat gorabehera; hemen pultsu bat dago. This is you, Tubacexen zuzendaritzaren partitik, ikuspuntu ideologiko batatik ari from her. It's true that the company has difficulty, economic difficulties: of a sector operating by one's own and others, oil and gas. We'll find nothing if we say that in that sector there's going to be a great deal of change, and that there'll be more of a short, medium, and length. This morning, we've made an agreement about the neurotic transition. And today, political discussions, in the center of international political debate, are decobised, and, in itself, CO. 2 changes are being found in sectors with direct contact in the fluids. And changes will certainly be very deep. But here, we think things are getting confusing. We believe that the company Tubacex, the management of the company Tubacex, is taking advantage, on the one hand, of the negative situation and the stoppage of activity generated by the crisis of the covid and, on the other hand, of the undoubted needs of transition that have to be given in the oil and gas sector in order to renegotiate to the low or to deteriorate the working conditions of its staff, and to get rid of workers with antiques and rights and, if necessary, to replace them later by precarious people. We believe that Tubacex's leadership is facing this conflict as a sort of second-round negotiation of the 2018 agreement, in which, in a similar scenario, with the prospect of the energy transition and the decarbonization of the economy, an agreement was reached in which the company considered that it was in a position to improve the conditions of the workforce. The prospects were not very different from those of now in terms of the transition of the oil and gas sector. But in 2018 an agreement is signed with a series of improvements and gives the impression that at the moment the company is trying to take advantage, as I say, that the covid passes through Valladolid and that decarbonization is at the center of the political debate, to impose policies of cleanliness and policies of retrogression on the rights of the workers. We believe that the company has between eyebrow and eyebrow – and so we deduce it from the reports it makes, which it publishes on its website and sends to the media – it has between eyebrow and eyebrow that the working conditions of this staff or of these staffs of the factories of Amurrio and Laudio are too good and that that is intolerable. Not so much because the viability of the company is endangered. On the contrary, these plants are not only the authentic matrices and cradles of the entire Tubacex group, but they are the real engines today. He therefore said that working conditions do not want to deteriorate so much because the viability of the company is in jeopardy, but because, from an ideological point of view, they are considered to be a kind of privileged. The personnel have taken him to the courts. 150 jobs have already been destroyed. And sometimes, when we talk about temporary employees, we don't realize that they're working for themselves and that these jobs have been destroyed. And 150 temporary workers have been fired last year, and now they want to fire another 130 employees. There is a problem, there is a problem, for the company in this case, that the legislation of the Spanish State was amended in the context of the pandemic to, precisely and specifically, prohibit dismissals for reasons motivated by the economic situation generated by the COVID-19. This was done through, at first, a decree-law in March last year. And it was ratified by a law of April this year, which in its article 2, specifically, does not consider as valid, as justifications for dismissals, those that are considered as generated by the COVID-19. And this is, as I said, in the courts. There are positive precedents, and many favourable judgments, but it is true that when you enter courts it is difficult to know how it will end. Said an illustrious American lawyer, Judge Holmes – and here are many lawyers; I suppose they have studied it, at the time, in the race – that he understood by law the prophecies about what the courts will actually do, no more or less. I am not going to be a prophet and, therefore, I am not going to play it all to the letter of trust that the courts that have had the judgments of the plants of Amurrio and Laudio this week will act in the way we want. Let's hope so. And, as we said, there is a solid legal basis, precisely made ex profession to avoid this kind of situation, which would support a ruling favorable to the workers; as was given, for example, in the case of ITP-PCB, in which dismissals were declared directly null and void. But I don't want to play it all on that card. As I said, I am not a prophet and I cannot prophesy what the judges will declare or determine in this particular case. In any case, we do mean that, politically, we do not make sentences here, nor are we going to get involved in other forums that do not belong to us. But here, as part of the political debate, we believe it is important to establish that a majority of this House gives support to the workers, and that it shares its argument that the causes of the ERE are circumstantial causes, that they are cyclical causes and that, therefore, dismissals have no reason to be. It is clear that today something will be tested, because the parties who support the government have made their own corrections. And that will be tested. I'll explain later what our position will be. The workers, the corporate committee, sent us a text for the protection of this Chamber, and together we agreed to the Podemos and our team, the Basque People, we did our text and filed it. It is clear from the very beginning that this subject has been uncomfortable for parties supporting the Government. First of all, he refused to give the text that we had received an explicit support. Then they put the necessity of the motion into the question, or decided directly that there was no need, and refused to accept the necessary procedure. And then they proposed a correction to the busca in the nada nada y guard la roa. In any case, I would like to announce that our group will maintain, after having contrasted it both with the company committee and with Elkarrekin Podemos, the original proposal, because we believe it explains the things that have to be explained; fundamentally, that this ERE is not justified, and that the company is asked to withdraw the ERE and to readmit the fired persons. But we will also vote in favour of the motion put forward by the parties supporting the Government, because we understand that it contains some interesting elements. It is a motion, or an amendment, that is literally a clipping of which was presented in the field of aeronautics. So cutting edge is that he keeps talking about plural enterprises instead of the singular enterprise. And at that time, Elkarrekin's group Podemos voted favorably; in fact, he was a signatory to that transaction, and Euskal Herria Bildu's group abstained. At that moment, we didn't go away because we thought that the topic about aeronautka was a discussion about the entire sector, so that, apart from the appeal to a collective negotiation around the sector, we had to investigate, Diagnosis, and an integral plan to promote the sector. But to-day we are speaking of a particular company, and in this case what seemed to us to be the kind of abscesssible at that time, it now seems a humble step, but, after all, a step. And that's why we're here to step forward. There is no magic formula for determining when a step is sufficient and when it is not. But in this case, I have said, when we have joined ourselves with different differences, it seems to us, that today the workers will see them under the influence and protection of their principal thesis, not with their original proposition, as we would have liked to, but at least half-rational or, in this case, with this correction. There are even problems in the formula itself which refers to collective bargaining, i.e. they do not dare to express a rejection of ERTE. It refers to collective bargaining. And as I was saying here that we are not a court, but a political body, I would like to recall one issue in relation to precisely the role of collective bargaining. I mentioned earlier a judgment, in the case of ITP-PCB, declaring the ERE null and void, and therefore the compulsory readmission of dismissed workers. And in that judgment, the new legislation introduced by the Government to prevent mass layoffs from occurring in the heat of the covid crisis was widely discussed and valued, as it could not otherwise be. And it used an expression that caught my attention and that's why I'm going to play it here. It was said that the will of the parties expressed in collective bargaining is in some way cryogenic. It may be a bit pompous, the way to express it, but what I meant was that the legislator, the legislator in this case of the Spanish State, made a clear expression of willingness to prohibit certain dismissals in certain contexts, and that, in some way, restricted, through a law as well, that will or freedom that exists in collective bargaining to determine according to which things. And, therefore, it expressly prohibited the possibility of using the situation generated by the covid to perform mass layoffs. That's why we thought things ought to be called by their names, and if we're against the field, we should say that we're against the field, and that if we had to say that there's been improper practices in business, we should have said something, but we'll say something, and, after all, the crew's proclamations will be a bit of protection today, I think. and, as far as possible, to recover such employments as have been destroyed. We will not deny that, in fact, the company Tubacex, like the whole oil and gas sector, is at a time of difficulty. Moreover, they are difficulties, as I said, doubly motivated both by the situation of the covid and by the energy transition we have in the past, or to some extent we have already begun. But that transition has to be a fair transition. A just transition means two things: transition and just. And I'm sorry about the grudge. Transition means that it is a process that is going to be gradual and therefore cannot be abrupt and cannot be a forced landing of the sectors that are today linked to that transition, or that are going to have those fossil energies that are going to have to lose weight progressively. And it has to be fair because, of course, those who pay the cost of this transition cannot be the working sectors or the regions, as in this case the Aiaraldea region, which have a strong dependence on sectors linked to oil and gas. In addition, there are a number of short-term factors in relation to the activity of Tubacex, such as the overall improvement of economic activity, the strong upturn that we are experiencing in recent times of oil price, including issues related to international geopolitics, such as the lifting of sanctions on Iran or the tariff agreement with the United States, which imposed certain barriers on imports of Basque steel products by the United States in this case. Therefore, these short-term improvements, this upturn, this drastic change in the situation with respect to what we had last year, when the company launches this staffing reduction plan, what gives us is oxygen. It does not avoid the peremptory need that it, like other companies in the sector, undertakes a process of transition and reinvention of its business model to accommodate it to the demands of the energy transition, but it does give us time. And that's what we're asking for. What we're asking is that we take the workers back. We ask to respect the conditions of work. And we ask that we make this transition together, without putting the load on the shoulders of the workers. In the meantime, as I said before, I am not a prophet. I don't know what the courts will say, but I know what you're doing, what you've done, what you've been up to, what you've been up to, what you've been up to, what peace and hope you've raised in the Basque Country. And that's why I'm telling you, as you've been with all the employees who've been fighting, we'll try and do our best to stay with you all the time. Luck and en Tubacex no more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u116	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u117	First, I would like to express our full support to the staff of Tubacex. We want to transfer, once again, the support and solidarity of the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda-Unida coalition with the hundreds of Tubacex workers, who have been on an indefinite strike for more than four months and therefore more than four months without pay, which is said soon. And they do it to defend the job and to defend their compañeras and compañeros formally fired and fired right now. A sacrifice that they are making not only in defense of employment and working conditions, in our opinion, but also as an act of solidarity of those who have not been fired with their compañeras and compañeras evicted by the company. An example for many and many workers. We are seeing it in those joint mobilizations, in those joint dynamics of different companies. An example for many workers and, of course, an example for our parliamentary group. An example that should not be forgotten, and an example that this Parliament should also, or should, take good note of. One way of doing this could be by adopting an initiative that the workers themselves have asked us to bring to this Parliament and that they have also asked us to sign the different groups. They hadn't done a preference screening. That is, for us, a first reason, with enough weight to defend without any kind of hesitation the non-law proposal, and for having maintained it, despite what Mr Casanova has explained. And, for our part, of course, we want to move that we will do everything in our hands for something that seems very important to us: to be on the side of the workers, but, above all, to be with the workers, here and out of here. Among other things, as well as for class solidarity – of course, I am a working class – but also because we are convinced that they are being helped by the reason for this that they are claiming. We all know the story, I think, well enough. In June 2020 the company drops that it needs to make a salary adjustment of 10 million euros. An adjustment that is equivalent to the dismissal of 150 people in the plants of Amurrio and Llodio, without counting about 200 possible jobs that have already ceased to be extended previously, about 200 people who had already remained on the street. The company's argument to raise a collective dismissal was that the oil and gas sector's ongoing crisis, coupled with executive Trump's – at the time – tariff policy, was greatly undermining the company's prospects. In the same year, 2020, the company's manager, Jesús Esmoris, stated that the company had 170 million euros in cash, indicating, moreover, that, despite the incidence of the coronavirus, a period of significant growth for the company is opened. Therefore, messages which, of course, seem to us to be contradictory, contradictory. In parallel, in the same year 2020, Tubacex announces short-term losses due, basically, to the pandemic crisis that slows down extractive activity. Short-term losses, because in 2019 the company closed with a profit of more than 11 million euros; a gross operating result of 67 million euros. In 2018, the previous year, gross operating income 69 million, the highest figure since 2008 and, in addition, absolute record of profits. That is why, when our coalition also brought in this month, I think I would recall, from September or October, a non-legislative proposal for this Parliament to rule against collective redundancies in those major companies that have had millions of profits for years, we did so, as we have explained, because it seems to us to be a real misunderstanding that this is happening. And we think that this is also what is happening, in some way, in Tubacex, a company that has had very important benefits, which is still in clear expansion, even though it may have concrete difficulties at a specific and very specific time, and which, however, decides to fire dozens of workers, who are also proposing alternatives to these measures that we usually call traumatic. Tubacex has no viability issues. Absolutely none. He had no problem with continuity as a company if he had not resorted, if he had not resorted to these dismissals. It's not true that I need to fire workers. We have already said that on one occasion in this Parliament too. It's good for you, economically, to fire workers. That, maybe it is. But there is a difference, for us, very important. It's good, I suppose, for the owners, for the shareholders of the company. It is about the profitability of the capitalists at the cost of misfortune – I am going to call it, of course, of misfortune – of the workers who have also raised that company with their effort and with their sweat. Tubacex, as we have said, has had millions of profits until the year 2020, and keeps that cash remnant he mentioned. And also, as I said, we have heard its managers boast, by calling it in some way, in business forums, where they are interested in speaking in this way, and before shareholders, of good expectations in the medium term. Therefore, it seems somewhat obscene to us to propose a collective dismissal of 150 people at this time, 128 executed. In addition, the Tubacex group, in recent years, has bought several companies. It is a clear expansion policy and has also done so in many cases with public loans. It has reached agreements with Saudi allies to expand in the Middle East. At the same time, they intend to sell us that it is absolutely necessary for them to fire these 128 people in Euskadi. For we, of course, do not commulate with mill wheels, and it is apparent that the workers do not commulate with mill wheels either, and I think it would be good if this Parliament did not do so either. According to the company, these layoffs are designed to alleviate structural problems that it suffers due to – and this is a literal quote – "the serious crisis of the main sector for which oil and gas products are destined". But, at the same time, the same management of the company says that the transition and diversification of products was being done correctly before the pandemic and presented good prospects for the future. We wonder, what do the workers have to stay with? Because they're contradictory messages. What do the institutions that have provided economic resources in some way or other to the business group have to remain with? We think that at this point it has been shown that what is intended is to destroy jobs of a certain quality, which can be replaced in the future by cheaper jobs and with other conditions by the company, direct or indirect and therefore more precarious jobs. We think that's the goal. A model change in the company, betting on another type of more precarious jobs and outsourced services, probably and therefore we say or will say, that it is not a necessity, that it is a clearly intended business bet. The company committee, which is here with us once again today, has already spent a few times in this Parliament and has explained in detail the situation in Tubacex and also its reasons for requiring the company to withdraw this approach of regulatory dossier, to withdraw the dismissals, in order to sit down and negotiate. That the layoffs be withdrawn, so as to sit down and negotiate. The company has not been willing to discuss it at any time, its only commitment has been to fire. The management of the company has also passed through this Parliament on one occasion, not to speak of the situation in Tubacex and much less of the more than 100 layoffs that were already being carried out at the time. They came to Aiaraldea's presentation, as you know, to talk about the economic revival of the region, a very important matter, but they did not come to talk about this. We have already been reminded by the chairman of the committee, who came to talk about the reactivation of Aiaraldea. It was not for some parliamentarian to deviate a bit from the subject and talk about layoffs. Well, obviously, I deviated from the subject at a specific time, it couldn't be otherwise, and I suggested to the manager that the unfortunate decision of dismissals they were executing be reconsidered. To this particular question, of course, he was not bothered to answer. I suppose something similar is what the workers have found each time they have moved that approach. And now the workers are asking us, because it is they who have come to this Parliament, they are asking us political groups to take a clear step in their defence, asking the company expressly, as Parliament, to withdraw this dossier, to readmit all the people who have been fired and then, yes, to sit down and negotiate, because so far it has not been possible to negotiate. I think we had a good chance, because besides, as I said, it is an initiative that they brought in so that we could sign it all the groups we wanted, and I would have been delighted that some more groups had signed it and that today we did not have two initiatives, one in front of the other. And the truth is that, this week that we have been following the trials, of course there is one thing that seems important to me, because even the judges have put to the company this week the withdrawal of the file – or transformation into ERTE – and therefore of the dismissals, to sit down and negotiate in a process of work conciliation. I mean, I think what the workers are asking, even the judges have proposed, and the company has said no. Therefore, for us it is clear that the company is not willing to negotiate anything, they just want the layoffs before the announced labor reform arrives. I, of course, also wish with all my strength that the workers win in the trial and, logically, we can't bet all this, although of course the trials are there, and we want them to win it. But today it is up to us to show our firm support, and we think that the best way to do this is to approve the initiative brought to us by the workers themselves, because it is true that there are other formulas, and I know that the groups supporting the Government are going to talk to me about their proposal, about the amendment to the whole of which they have tabled, that we are not going to oppose it, but the initiative brought by the workers, which is virtual, is that Parliament is expressly saying to the company that they withdraw the ERE, they are going to readmit the workers. It's the clear and direct message. I believe that Parliament has often defended these kinds of positions. He must not be afraid to address himself, on specific occasions, either to the employer, or in this case to a specific company, to say, "Listen, this, as Parliament, we do not like and ask him to transform it", as we sometimes address other sectors as Parliament. We believe that this is the best way, especially when we have seen and verified that there is no will for dialogue or negotiation on the part of the company to date. We believe that this is the best message, to say to you here today "Tubacex's management: remove the employment regulation file and proceed to the readmission of fired workers, women and men." This is what the non-law proposal proposes, this is what the workers expect. We've got it very clear: We're working with workers and we'll be there because there's no one left in Tubacex. Tabacex Headmaster: the retreat and all the persons who had been expelled, because there is no one left in Tubacex.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u118	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing to the teams who are running the corrections, Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. In both the Employment and Labour Committee and in private, we have had the opportunity to transfer our solidarity and support to workers in Tubacex on a number of occasions throughout the process they are experiencing and are currently in a judicial phase. Solidarity and support which, before we continue, I would like to reiterate to you today also from this rostrum, as we Socialists have always done from all the institutions. We have always moved that job loss is always the worst possible news, and we have also stated that, in this and in any other procedure, the channels of dialogue must always be exhausted. This is something that we think is essential, primarily to avoid situations as traumatic as they are facing today. We have even said publicly, and today we reiterate, that those who do not exercise those channels of dialogue with that good faith with which they have to be carried out deserve deep reproach on our part. In this particular case, it is clear that the channels of dialogue have not yielded the expected results, because we are currently in a pending judicial process. We are also very aware of the sector's challenge, and we are also aware of the first-hand challenge facing the Aiaraldea region, which is also being dealt with in this Parliament's presentation to the effect. And that is why it seems to us that we need to continue to focus on the value of the channels of dialogue, with the main objective of reaching agreements and avoiding traumatic situations such as those faced today by workers affected by the ERE of Tubacex. And in this sense, when we have had the opportunity to listen to the workers, both in the committee and in the private meetings that we have held with them, from the Socialist Party we have always emphasized our commitment because, through collective bargaining and the agreement, the companies and legal representatives of the workers seek alternatives to dismissals, which also allow companies to face the difficulties they may be experiencing. And on every occasion, both in public and in private, there has always been a concrete offer, that of the way of mediation, but, as you know, this institutional mediation is only possible if both parties request it and, unfortunately, that has not been so. In this process, the Department of Labour and Employment has maintained contacts with both the company and the representatives of the workers in order to study their participation in the negotiating procedure developed by the parties, with the aim of ensuring and respecting the will of the parties to the negotiations, an agreement could be reached for the adoption of other types of less traumatic measures for the workers and preventing dismissals. In the end, however, such mediation or facilitation did not end up soliciting. Today, as I said at the beginning, we have a good number of people who have lost their jobs, and legal proceedings in the face of a scenario of uncertainty. And we, in view of this situation, want to appeal to the need to seek agreements with that objective, which must be shared, of maintaining jobs. And that is our position and that is our objective, but in this or any other process of sectors in crisis we are living in, because the tubular industry represents for Álava and for Euskadi also an important sector. This industry was also affected by the slowdown in the 2008 crisis and is now heavily conditioned by the energy-environmental transition. But also, like other sectors, they have been affected by the crisis situation generated by the coronavirus. And in this Parliament, quite recently, we were able to speak specifically also about the aeronautical sector and the crisis situation that it is experiencing. And the amendment we have tabled today is a literal copy of the compromise amendment that we agreed at the time with Elkarrekin Podemos. Because, beyond the support and solidarity that we have already transferred to you and that we want to reiterate to you today, the truth is that the road to all these conflicts, in our view, must be the same: negotiation and agreement to avoid traumatic situations and achieve the ultimate end of maintaining employment. And that is what we have in our amendment. We share the view that, in general, in view of the current situation in the sector, the recipe must be to take measures to accommodate the sector in a resilient manner, to maintain and take advantage of the specific knowledge of workers and to adapt to the new challenges facing the sector. And this is necessary if our main objective is to maintain employment and avoid the precariousness of working conditions. And in this regard, with regard to Tubacex, we urge that, through collective bargaining and the agreement, companies and the legal representation of workers should seek alternative solutions to these dismissals, which will enable companies to face the difficulties they are experiencing, considering short-term formulas that avoid dismissals and enable the readmission of fired persons. In the same vein, we urge the Basque Government to continue with this offer that has always existed and, with it, to cooperate actively to keep these channels of dialogue open, because such dialogue between the parties is absolutely necessary. And aware of the many challenges facing the sector, we also urge the Basque Government to continue to work in collaboration and coordination with the sector as a whole and with the rest of the public administrations, in order to take the appropriate decisions that will enable the tubular industry to meet the challenges of consolidation, competitiveness, rooting, training and R & D+i, as well as the maintenance of employment and working conditions, something in which both the Basque institutions and the Spanish Government continue to work. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u120	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u121	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good afternoons. And our union and a hug with the delegation of the workers of Tubacex, who are working with us today. Gaur, EH Bilduk eta Elkarrekin Podemosek ekimen hau aurkeztu digute, Tubacexeko empresa-batzordearen poses mendu bat jasoz. We have been able to learn first-hand about the approaches of the representatives of the workers, and also of the company. In the light of all this, we have presented a text which we believe responds consistently to the situation before us today. And I would like to refer to Mr Casanova's position in the debate, not only in this debate, but in others of the same characteristics and in some other statements. Once that approach has been dispelled, the more superficial approach – I don't get it wrong – is basically, usually, based on two arguments: the first, the difference between the economic crisis and the structural crisis, and the second, the Government, this Government, takes a profile on this issue; although it is true that today this second question has practically obviated it. It is not going to be a surprise to anyone that I say I do not share those two approaches at all. And I will base my argument, too, on two parts: I do not agree with the analysis you make, and in addition, in addition to those two elements, there are other very important elements in this debate that you sometimes also obvious. Basically two. The conjunctural and the structural. Every time we find ourselves in a debate like this, his first argument is "this is a short-term situation, so short-term measures must be applied". What's the short-term? I understand that, in fact, it can allude to a specific situation; according to that definition we could be close. But it can also refer to a temporary dimension. And also, and also, it can refer to a complex situation due to the number of elements involved. Yes, the conjuncture as an articulation of elements. And even etymologically, the word Latin, conjuncture, conjunction, refers to more than one element. In this logic, the conjuncture is presented as the combination of circumstances on which the success of an activity, a company or a sector depends; the conjuncture interferes in the structural. What you define as a totally short-term situation – he likes to use the "totally short-term"; also Mr Hernández – and, therefore, we should not worry about any other element, we consider it not only short-term. We think that the situation has certainly worsened the situation, but the crisis is more than just a situation, and we will try to improve other elements that go together. In a way, the argument Mr Casanova has followed today is giving rise to or endorsement of this approach that I am doing from this rostrum. It is a much broader vision, and we will act above all on the set of elements, and I am sure that every day we will be closer to solving it. The second part of the question, "The Basque Government takes the lead". You like to say also "do mutis for the forum". Well, the role of the Basque Government, for me, however, is another, isn't it? This Government does not profile itself. This government is dedicated to governing. It is moving along three principles, one of which has a direct impact on the subject of our debate today: reviving the economy and employment. The essential part of this reactivation is to do everything possible not to lose a single job, to maintain each and every one of the jobs. It's almost an obsession. To this end, it is developing a strategy based on the maintenance and drive of advanced industry, investment, innovation and internationalisation. This government is committed to 10 country objectives, of which the first three are directly related to what we are discussing today: a drastic reduction in unemployment, a 40% increase in GDP in industry and advanced services and a convergence in R & D with the European average. To this end, it has committed itself with our citizens to achieving 29 concrete commitments that are deployed in 102 initiatives, most of which are already under way: principles, strategy, country objectives, commitments, all with concrete initiatives launched. This is the antithesis to be profiled or to be profiled. Indeed, as they said, on 29 April we were discussing the crisis in the aviation industry. And, frankly, Mr. Casanova, today I have a feeling that you wanted to stay out, at that time. Today we adopt a text that is not copy and paste anything. It is a similar text; similar to that, similar. Mr. Rico has already said so, too. And I am glad that you are voting in favour of that text of our amendment, as you have announced. That amendment text, our amendment text, reflects the essence of the government programme. A government program that responds effectively to many of the situations that concern us all. For example, in the Labour Committee, which was also reminded last May 11th, the Chairman of the Tubacex Company Committee, Eduardo Ibernia – who is with us today – was concerned, in addition to the situation of his company, logically, about the situation of the whole region. "It's a worrying situation, that of the region," he told us. And he was telling us about the need for the region to get air. It's a shared concern. And this government faces it and faces a specific programmatic commitment: priority areas of action and firms in difficulty. Commitment 17, page 43. There it is. It's a commitment. As I said before, the antithesis of profiling. This is to lead the country's economic recovery from the government. It is not my intention today to remind you of the first three chapters of this government program, but I cannot let go of an element that you, Mr Casanova, often seem to forget. Today he has forgotten in his speech dialogue, social dialogue. It is a cross-cutting, methodological element that gives meaning to our entire socio-economic reality. This Government has an essential commitment to deepening the social dialogue, to encouraging permanent negotiations between economic and social actors, and to strengthening the Basque system of labour relations. The Social Dialogue Bureau serves as an impetus and a driving force for collective bargaining in the multiple areas in which it develops, in all these enterprises. This element is the essence of the text that we are presenting today. This is the essence of the text, as Mr Rico has already recalled. And we are glad that you are adding to this text. Dialogue, negotiation... an essential element, as I told you, that you sometimes tend to forget. But, gathering, more than short-term, and you also in some way recognized it, government leading, in addition to that dialogue and negotiation. But I also want to talk about a fourth element: asymmetry. And it's not the asymmetry you think I'm gonna tell you. I'm talking about labor reform. And I take back the words of Edu Ibernia, again, in that committee, which said to us: "the famous labour reform, and I think it is also up to us – speaking to the parliamentary groups – that this labour reform affects Tubacex very clearly," he said. "Surely we're already late in Tubacex, but it's that after Tubacex there may be another company, and another one." Indeed, collective bargaining in Euskadi has been significantly devalued by the asymmetry imposed by the 2012 labour reform, generating a situation of outdated sectoral and enterprise collective agreements. It is also accompanied by a blockade, a blockade of the dynamics of the relationship between social and business agents, which results in leaving an important group of Basque workers without coverage in the updating of contractual conditions. This trend has only been reversed by the revival of the social dialogue, with a huge amount of work to be done in this area. That we have a great deal of work left, Mr Hernández, in this area of labour reform. You have initiative in this. Still, it is vitally important to continue to strengthen the Basque system of labour relations, and to strengthen the Labour Relations Council and the Social Dialogue Bureau. Ongoing dialogue and negotiation, such as tools to find a solution to open labour disputes and to protect the rights of working people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u122	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the line of teams that don't run, Misa mustn't take the word. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados, Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, a greeting to the Tubacex workers who accompany us; a hug and our strong solidarity for their situation, which we hope will be resolved soon and in the best possible way. The truth is, they're in a complicated sector. As we all know, and Mr Casanova has just acknowledged in the last part of his speech, the pipe manufacturing sector is undergoing a structural change worldwide, caused by a continuous fall in the oil and gas sector, which comes from 2014, as a result of the necessary transition towards the decarbonisation of energy. The energy transition to cleaner energy sources and sustainable development are, fortunately, an unbridled trend in the world economy. Proof of this are the huge investments in clean energy that companies such as Repsol, Total, BP, etc. have begun to address, but which necessarily involves the reduction of whole sectors such as pipe manufacturing. It's not possible to have one without the other. So this crisis does not only affect Tubacex; it affects all companies operating in this sector, as we all know. And it is true that to this situation, which comes from afar, the economic crisis resulting from the covid has recently accumulated, which has generated great uncertainty at the international level, which has slowed investment decisions in all sectors, causing a sharp drop in demand. But to pretend that the problems of the pipe sector are solely due to the pandemic is not to want to see the reality because we do not like it. In this context, sales, objective data, Tubacex's sales in 2020 were EUR 479.6, EUR 480 million, 21.8% less than in the previous year, and EBITDA stood at EUR 38.1 million, 43.2% less than in 2019. The end result of the 2020 financial year was EUR 25.3 million in losses, largely concentrated on Basque plants. As a result, this company has been forced to take the decision to reduce the workforce by around 20 % globally, in order to adjust its size to the decline in international demand, and with the aim of ensuring and ensuring the sustainability of the group, in addition to other measures that they have had to take related to finance and marketing. And this has generated 94 forced redundancies through an ERE that is, as we all know, in legal proceedings, as the unions have reacted with an indefinite strike. From our parliamentary group we are very sorry that the situation has reached this point and that this is as it is. We fully understand how bad these 94 families and the rest of the company's workers who see their jobs in danger are going to be. And from here, I repeat, we convey to you our understanding, our closeness and our desire for this conflict to be resolved as soon as possible and in the most satisfactory way possible for all. Unfortunately, we will have to wait for the court ruling to see how this issue ends. And while the judges are speaking, we believe that this conflict should not be used politically, nor should we throw more wood into the fire. We therefore believe that this proposal does not make much sense. Parliament cannot and should not impose on a private company the withdrawal of an ERE, which is ultimately an enterprise instrument for the flexibility of staff in the face of changes in demand, which aims to safeguard the rest of the workforce and the survival of the whole company. The EREs are perfectly regulated and their correct application is the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate and, ultimately, of Justice. Because just as workers have their rights, companies also have theirs, and we must respect each other. We also believe that this Parliament should also not ask the Basque Government to take on the demands of one of the parties. We believe that this is not the role of this Parliament and we hope that it will not lose sight of the fact that its responsibility is to create the right socio-economic conditions for citizens to have the best possible opportunities and social coverage when they are lost. And in this work have a special relevance three axes of action that constitute the key to the generation of wealth and employment for the future: training, research and entrepreneurship. Training policies that allow temporary qualification of employees and the unemployed are crucial. We believe that more investment in training is needed to rescue people who are caught up in the unstoppable technological and social changes of today's society and to position ourselves advantageously in the race for competitiveness with other European and global regions. And, along with training, the other axis on which we have to invest decisively is that of research. These days we have seen it very clearly with the issue of vaccines, because research is an intrinsic generating axis of value that needs as much impetus as possible from our society and our institutions. And the third leg of this tripod is entrepreneurship. On Monday we will discuss in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs the entrepreneurship plan, because without companies there is no employment. Wealth is not generated by public administration, but by companies. No company, from the outset, is an enemy of the workers who hire, form and care, and for Euskadi to progress we need more entrepreneurs, more companies and more investments. And no one's going to invest their money in an area with a reputation for high social conflict, we wouldn't either. Therefore, we need to evolve towards a new model of labour and trade union relations, in which the conflict is not the objective, not the strategy, not the custom, but a new approach based on the will to agree and open negotiation, oriented towards winning-win, in which all actors are clear that the ultimate common objective to protect is the survival and development of the enterprise, an indispensable condition for the generation and maintenance of employment, and that, to this end, negotiation and the search for non-maximumist agreements is essential. In short, we very much regret the situation that has arisen with the Tubacex conflict. We believe that, given that the case is in the hands of Justice, we must wait until it is resolved legally, without political interference, and we hope that a just solution will soon be reached that will open up a new stage in the lives of all concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u124	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mr. Casanova is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u125	Well, Mr. Aiartza, I mean, you guys never make a profile, do you? They don't profile themselves. I guess you'll answer me later on in your turn if you're in favor or against the ERE. Are you in favour of withdrawing the ERE? Is the PNV in favor of withdrawing the ERE from Tubacex? To respond to that in one sense or another is not to profile, it is to face it, I think it would make a great contribution to this debate if it does. The conjuncture. Look, when I was a kid, there was a book of Forges jokes around my house, and it portrayed the politicians of the transition a lot, all very serious, with tie, and in almost all the sentences they said the word conjuncture, that I was recorded, I think it was a bit of a pedantry tone "because the current conjuncture, I don't know what...". It is true that the word was recorded to me, but I do not repeat it here either by chance or by Forges, I repeat it because precisely at this moment the difference between a dismissal being null or not null is precisely whether things are cyclical or structural. Therefore, it is neither a semantic fixation nor a reminiscence of my childhood with Forges, but we are really talking about what everyone is talking about on company committees, in labour courts and everywhere. Whether there are grounds for dismissal in this situation or not. And, if it is a short-term problem related to the pandemic, in that case it is not possible to fire, it cannot be fired because specific ad hoc legislation has been made so that it cannot be fired. I repeat: before – I'm going to read some excerpt from the sentence that declared ITP-PCB's dismissals void – I used to talk about cryogenicization. "The will of the parties..." and there is the criticism that here it refers to collective bargaining, which is a valid instrument, of course, and very much affected precisely by labour reform, as you said, but in this context, at this juncture, a court what it says is that: "The will of the parties has become cryogenic and a role of the social partners has been assumed by the legislator". The legislator is you, Mrs Mendia, and it is you, Mr Rico, the legislator, who is precisely your party, in Madrid, who has made decrees and who has made laws so that they cannot be dismissed for temporary reasons, it is the Socialist Party, which has also put a little profile here. Because I believe that in this Parliament we have to lose or you have to lose some fear of getting wet. Sometimes they're more afraid of getting wet than a cat in the water. Get mixed up on certain issues. That one thing is, and the lehendakari has reminded us, one thing is the government and others are the parties. Well, as parties... man, they're doing things in Madrid that they're stopping here. They're stopping here. So, if in this case you have another will, look for the boundaries. I have read a court ruling that says, for example, that "The entire normative bloc dictated for the pandemic forms a holistic and systemic set. The protection of employment against the pandemic has been placed in an effective rank similar to that of the protection of fundamental rights." And that's what you did in Madrid. And we have no objection to recognizing it. And then they've made many other mistakes and in other things they've made it right, things as they are. So be consistent and here too, well, look for the boundaries a little bit. Look for the boundaries, because it's a lot at stake. On the resolution they have tabled, which is indeed the cut-off from that of aeronautics – do not debate the things that are objective and can be contrasted with – if you talk about companies in the sector, and we are talking about a single company. That it has no problem, that everyone does, if they think it is relevant to respond in the same way. And, in fact, we don't find it impertinent at all to the point that, well, it's not what we'd like, it's pretty "regulinchi," but something is something. We would not have signed or supported, we would have abstained again as at that time, if we were to respond to all the problems in the sector simply by referring to this question of collective bargaining, as was done at the time with the aeronautical sector, because the sector has another set of problems. But with regard to the situation of Tubacex can be considered valid. And speaking of the sector, I don't know if we're conscious, I think... I don't want to underestimate anyone, and in the government I'm sure they're very conscious... the columns of our economy, of our hundred producers, and above all those which are the columns of our industry, and in what state they stand about the changes which are being distributed in the world. We spoke this morning, and I repeat, of the innate transition and debonization, and in our economy, there are essential roles of oil and gas, traffic sectors, aeronautics sectors and other departments that are strong in southern surgery and fluids. Then it would be nice to talk about that too. And we'll talk about it. Because it's true that Tubacex is also suffering the changes that are being in that sector. But if we go to the narrative of the company and to what it has been projecting over the last few years through its social networks, its website and so on, we see how, until recently, it was a company that sold solvency, that sold that there was no problem, that sold that it had 200 million in cash. Not long ago. As a matter of fact, he keeps saying it. And that it has no problem of viability. And now he starts saying that with these plants he can't keep the group. And that's our main thesis: that it's actually leaning on losses from some plants that are short-term. That, moreover, as we all know, in business groups the attribution of losses to one plant or another has a rather important margin of discretion. And as we see there is an obsession with building a narrative that reproaches these workers for gaining rights, for what we fear is that precisely what is being sought is precisely to cut those rights, to continue the activity with workers with fewer rights. And it looks like I'm rediscovering America, but this is a practice that many companies, not all, but many companies...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u126	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u127	... They're doing it. And that we believe that, as a government and as a Parliament, each within the framework of its responsibilities, it has to denounce. And, I'm telling you, if you want to stop profiling, then go ahead and reject the ERE and ask Tubacex to put it back and readmit the farewells.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u128	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Mr. Hernandez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u129	Good. I am not going to go into the debate now about whether it is short-term or structural. It's something the workers are fighting. It's something you're also talking about in those trials. But there is one thing that, of course, is important to our group when we look at this conflict. Because it's a conflict. Conflicts are not artificial, they arise from specific material issues. And that is something I have also tried to introduce in my previous speech. We're talking about a company that's made a lot of millions until three days ago, that's made a lot of money. And, therefore, to us, of course, it seems to us that this is also an argument to take into account. Which is related to that non-law proposal we brought in at the time. We find absolutely obscene the approach of collective dismissal of more than 100 people in a company of just under 1,000 workers, of about 800, if I remember correctly, that a few months before this approach was earning millions of euros. It seems absolutely obscene to us. If it is a structural problem, things arise in another way. But beyond that, the calls for collective bargaining made by Mr Rico, of course, we will also vote in favour of the initiative. Indeed, it is a short and sticky initiative that we agreed, moreover, on our own initiative, that we brought. But it is that, in this case, I also think that in the case of Tubacex they are already on trial. It is that collective bargaining has already taken place. It is that this very week the judges have proposed that the ERE be withdrawn and that a negotiation be held in an act of conciliation. Where, too, I do not know exactly what type of act, but work conciliation also requires mediation, to which Mr Rico has also referred. It is therefore clear to us that the company does not want to negotiate. He doesn't want to negotiate anything. They want to commit layoffs before the labor reform comes. I, about labor reform, Mr. Aiartza, what do you want me to say again? Because you have made reference, you have looked at me, you have referred to me. Yeah. You've referred to me. I would also like to make a joke of it, because it gives me the feeling that you sometimes consider me to be the Minister of Labour. You already know our position. You already know what you're doing. And indeed, unfortunately, for the Tubacex workers because it is possible that they will be late. You already know perfectly well our position to end that labor reform. I know yours. I know yours. And I'm sure the PNV will be in favour of it. I will not reproach you for what you will do in the future, you have already told me more than once. I want to tell you that, right now, with an initiative like this, with a declaratory initiative of support for workers, brought by workers, well, indeed, now what we were asking of them – because the workers were asking us – is that we tell the company one thing, because I disagree a lot with Mr Gil Vegas. I do believe that parliaments are about to make such statements, I do believe that to a private company we can say this kind of things, I do believe that to the employer we can say this kind of things. Just as you put it here, you have to go to another kind of model of labor relations, and that some groups here sometimes tell unions things that just like unions don't like to hear. Here the action and attitude of some trade unions is affected on some occasions. For we also propose that the action of some employers and companies should be affected on some occasions, of course, that is why politics is also involved, and that is why parliaments are involved. A new model of labour relations will not end conflicts, Mr Gil Vegas, conflicts are the product of concrete material realities, labour conflicts are the product of concrete material realities, models of labour relations will be able to facilitate, but they will not end conflicts in a world where the means of production are one's own and the work puts it another. Businesses create wealth, you say. Yes, companies create wealth, because they have workers, workers and workers create wealth. The Tubacex workers are the ones who have allowed Tubacex to make a lot of money, or rather, the Tubacex workers, including the one hundred twenty-first who will stay on the street, if they lose their judgment, are the ones who have allowed some Tubacex owners and shareholders to make a lot of money. This is a class conflict that does not occur because a union has certain strategies, it occurs because it is a product of the material reality of life.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u130	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u131	They will forgive me, but, in order to put us on the profile, Mr Aiartza, 90% of this Parliament will vote in favour of the amendment. It's something I don't understand. We are told that we are taking a profile with our amendment and will vote in favour of the amendment on the 90th... I have done the calculation, it is the ninety eats something per cent of this Parliament. The same is true of the fact that we have not become so profiled, the same is true of the fact that in this amendment, come, recognize it, things are said that are quite important, I believe, to the workers and to the workers of Tubacex, something that I am glad about. Because beyond showing solidarity and the desire that they will soon be able to see resolved the tragic situation they are experiencing, I think it is good to do coherence exercises, and at this very session we are meeting with different companies, with different sectors that are involved in a crisis situation, and it is not coherent for us to propose different recipes to each type of conflict when the basis is the same, and in this case it is: crisis situation, lack of dialogue, and as a result, dismissals. What was a good compromise with Elkarrekin two months ago We can also today is a good amendment to this situation, because if you remember that debate, we were talking about a lack of agreement and dialogue, about court proceedings, it is that we were talking about the same thing, absolutely the same thing, so it is good this amendment that was put forward by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, and that is why we do not profile ourselves. And that is why, as I said in my first speech, we share that, in general, in view of the situation in these sectors in crisis, the recipe always has to be to accommodate the sector, to maintain the knowledge of workers and to adapt to the new challenges, and always with the main objective of maintaining employment and to avoid the precariousness of working conditions, and that is reflected in the amendment and that is not to be profiled. And, with our amendment, we also highlight the need for social dialogue, Mr Aiartza said, and I endorse it, collective bargaining and agreement, which, by the way, are also necessary, and what we want is to ensure decent work, things we have talked about here on more than one occasion. And in the amendment we call on companies and workers to seek alternative solutions to these redundancies, to consider short-term formulas that avoid redundancies and allow for the readmission of redundant workers. And that statement by this Parliament is very powerful, very powerful. At the moment the trial is judicialized, you know that. Well, we call for further exploration of these alternative solutions from the social dialogue between the parties. And I add to you that I hope you will lead to the withdrawal of the ERE as a result of that dialogue between the parties. And Mr. Casanova, we get wet, of course, and the Basque Government gets wet, we don't get profiled. And we must also say this, and I have told you before, from the Department of Employment and Labour there have been contacts with both parties to facilitate this mediation, but with labour legislation in hand, only if requested by both parties can be done and neither party has requested it, and that too must be considered. Finally, our amendment also urges the industrial part of the Basque Government to continue working with the whole sector and with the rest of the public administrations, and always, as I said, with that objective of maintaining employment and decent working conditions. Today, in addition to reiterating our solidarity and support for the workers of Tubacex, we put on the table the concrete actions that will be the only ones that will allow the resolution of these kinds of conflicts, and in any of the sectors affected by the crisis. We want to maintain employment, jobs, but beyond any statement, this requires dialogue between the parties, the support of the institutions in the same and inter-institutional action to take measures to help the sector to meet the consolidation and rooting challenges that we are defending. And, beyond speeches, I am grateful that the amendment we have proposed today is approved by 90% of this House. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u132	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u133	A couple of questions. Three, actually. A first, in my opinion, very important precedent in today's debate: the tone. I believe that with this tone and with the development of this debate we have been able to bring something positive. I am convinced that we have been able to bring something positive rather than something negative to this situation. We shall see what the fruit is after the votes. But I think it's very important to stress it. Mr Hernandez, I know you're not the Minister of Labour. I know. But when I address you, I don't know, I act like many times when you address me, don't I?, that I'm also not lehendakari, eh? But I do think it's important, I think it's important to remind you, because you also remind us, what role we each play here. And with regard to this issue, which we were reminded of, and which I reminded you of, and which you also recalled, that is to say, labour reform, I do want to remind you that, with the exception of the 1980 reform, we have always felt, as political formation, that they were reforms in peius, that is to say, to be worse clearly. And with regard to the current one, we have a clear position. We consider that it perverted an essential element, perverted collective bargaining as a key to the configuration of labour relations, sliding to corporate representation negotiating and imposing powers that, in our view, unbalanced the systems of collective convention. That's what I meant earlier with asymmetry. That asymmetry was generated, with which, you know what our position will be regarding the text that you bring on that issue, or that it will be brought into Congress. As in almost all, in all, we will present our amendments. With regard to what Mr Casanova said, first of all, a question relating to the text, to the text of our amendment, and to take away from it that contemptive character. What I wanted to pick up here is: it's not a hack. Because a clipper... I understand that a clipboard text has a perhaps derogatory element. And in our view, that text that we defend does not have that element. Mr. Rico was explaining it right now. It has the element of making an analysis of a situation, and it is an analysis that also corresponds to other analyses of situations that we are seeing. And it is a text that also reflects an effort that was made on 29 April, because it was not our initial text and, as a result of a negotiation process, we approved that text. It says, "You answer this question, you answer this question." I do have a position on the ERE, but I know what role I play here. I know what role I play within a public institution, how I know what role the government plays, how we know what role the government plays. It is also reflected in our amendment. The Government is playing a role, as Mr Rico has also recalled, and I will read it to make it clear, that you were very critical of this role that the Government is playing in the previous debate. It fulfils a role that we urged you to continue to keep all channels of dialogue open. That is, trying to keep all channels of dialogue open. Because that is the role of the Government, or what Mr. Rico reminded you of, its mediation role in the conflict. Of course, a mediation that is given by whom? It is given by the will of the holders of labour relations. And there's one question that draws my attention. You are committed, and you are very committed, in my opinion, to being a holder of labour relations. And you, Mr. Casanova, no matter how hard you try, are not a holder of labour relations. The legitimate holders of labour relations are the representatives of the workers and the company. And we can't take away that capacity and responsibility. And if you play that, you're playing in an irresponsible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u134	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Basque Popular Group representative of Ciudad, Mr. Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Hernández, it is clear that you and I have very different views on how the economy works, how the company works and what the role of the different social partners should be. And I don't think we're going to convince each other. It's been a long time since I've come to the conclusion that no one's beliefs were changing here. Although it was fun to discuss with you the times that are needed and in the forum that is necessary to contrast these points of view, because it will surely be enriching for both, but without any hope of change. Look, just with the only desire to put data on the table, to the extent that it can help clarify the speech, as you have spoken of Tubacex's immense benefits, let's see what they have been... In 2014, I said earlier, the crisis in the sector began more or less. In 2016, which is the first data I have, Tubacex had 0.5 million euros in profit. There he was, almost zero. In 2017, he had a loss of 19.7 million, and there was no covid. This wasn't the covid, obviously. By the way, in 2018, it had 17.4 profit; less than the losses of the previous year, it did not rinse them completely. In 2019, it earned 11.1 million profits. And by 2020, as we have already said, it has had 25.3 million losses. In total, there is a deficit balance. But, beyond all this, there is a reality, which I believe today we should not, I understand, lose sight of what the point of gravity is. And the point of gravity today, indeed, is the situation of the Tubacex workers, who are going through a crisis and a regrettable situation. The reality is that they are in a sector that is changing. And it is also changing for a process that has to be produced, which is the process of decarbonization. And that is unfortunate, but what we have to do is help from here on out that no one is left behind, that no one is left behind, in those processes of change that are taking place in this sector and in any other sector, and that are irremediable, because they have to do with the global evolution of society. No more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u136	Thank you, Mr. Gil. After discussion, we'll vote with EHG, and together with the original text of the proposition, as the Podemos-IU teams have put together. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u137	Original text not allowed. We're going to vote for the full corrections made by the Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the companies are 42; the given votes are 75; the supporters 75; the opponents 75; the opponents are 0,0,0; white; 0,0,0,0,0; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-24.u138	So, unanimously, the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-two.
