ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, tell Estaliz that Laruri's vote is replaced by the spokesman. Single point in theme list: "Essal Autonomia 2022, the full corrections of the law project presented by the General Prevement of the year. The discussion and the vote. "Mingorn has the word, Mr. Subzu, the word is yours."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u1	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. I'm here today to present a bill of general Euskal Preservations for the next event, which belongs to this Chamber as it is legal to accept it. Many think that the most important law of the year is that the politics of a government, the most profound decisions on economy, and, after all, because it is defined by this law that economic offerings are made to the society of health; in another sense, the agreement placed in the numbers and articles of this law consists in the position of society, and the trust of a government. Therefore I have often remarked, that this law is not a law of any kind, but a law which is projected into the other sciences, which are the jurisdictions of the EukMos. And in this case, it is a law that covers the economic claims of all its public entities throughout the year 2022. It is evident, then, that we are not in the presence of a common law. This year, I have said several times during the last few months, he was in possession of a qualitary leap in the funding of opportunities, and this is why we have proposed a very Spanish budget which receives and finds his instinct in the sixth and Seventh chapters. A Orthodox law, which takes advantage of the opportunity to spend on permanent areas, and therefore takes great risks. Budgets that challenge the economic revival of Euskadi through investment, as they include EUR 1,605 million earmarked for these chapters, an increase of 50 % over 2021. In this connection, I would add, as I have heard repeatedly, that the budget for 2022 is intended to take advantage of a window of opportunity rarely opened by the European Commission, arising from the exceptional situation brought about by the suspension of tax rules by the European Union, and which leads us to maximise public investment, by clarifying the limits allowed in a normal situation and by using all available resources; resources which come from the good behaviour of the economy and from the collection, but also from the agreements reached within the Joint Committee on Economic Concert. We come from a 2021 budget that has already taken advantage of the suspension of the European stability and financial sustainability rules to adopt, in June and September, investment initiatives that have been additional to the initial budgets and that, in disadvantaged areas and in an extraordinary way, have come to use available resources to increase the best possible investment effort. This investment bet in 2022 as a sign of budgetary identity has a certain track record. Together with this commitment to public investment, the 2022 budget is characterised by its strong commitment to R & D, with a budget of 588 million, an increase of 52 million, which means an increase of about 10 %. On the other hand, the Government retains its essence by guaranteeing and improving social policies, accounting for 77% of this project. Again, around EUR 8 out of 10 continue to be spent on social spending. In addition, last parliamentary term we started an unequivocal bet on the overall gender perspective, which in these budgets covers 16.5 % of... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ...in addition, the last parliamentary term we started an unequivocal bet on the overall gender perspective, which in these budgets covers 16.5 %. It is not just about financing explicit initiatives aimed at achieving gender equality, but it is present in all public policies. The many different measures against the crisis caused by COVID-19 are also continued in this, as I have said before, with the growth of 349 million euros. But the numbers which lead to these expenses will remain in education, 95,6 million euros, and in health, 185,4 million euros. Having said that, I now turn to the budgetary magnitudes that the Government has incorporated into the draft General Budgets for the year 22. The project amounts to EUR 13,108 million. And the operating budget, i.e. the one available for spending on public policies insulating financial assets, is 694 million euros higher than in the 21st project, i.e. 6% higher. While it is true that to these, as you know, we must add the 194 million not included in the Covid Fund, which could have been intended to reduce the debt and, by the decision of this Government, to expand the capacity of the department's expenditure. In this way, the increase in public policies amounts to 888 million, which means a 7.6% increase over the year 21. A brief approach to the macroeconomic picture is required at this time, which involves this possibility of the rather expansive budget and the financial economic framework that makes possible this significant growth in the state of income, which allows for loose spending or, at least, those that allow us to present this project today. On the first issue, I should point out that the macroeconomic picture presented with the draft Budget Act included known economic information until September. In particular, the economic accounts for the second quarter and the published information on the environment of the Basque economy were available. With these data and context assumptions, forecasts were made, which expected real GDP growth of 6.7% for this year 21 and 6.4% for the year 22. However, once the detailed information on the economic accounts for the third quarter of the year 21 has been published by Eustat, we have updated the macroeconomic table for the period 21-22. A new macroeconomic picture that brings some important changes compared to the previous one. Indeed, Eustat's estimated growth for the third quarter of 21 was significantly lower than expected in the previous scenario. Thus, at the expected rate of 5,5 % real, the official figure was 3,9 %. Part of this difference is due to the environment hypothesis, in particular to the growth of the Spanish economy, which goes from a forecast of 6.2 for the year 21 to the current 5.2 %. This point, which is the lowest growth in the Spanish economy, explains a significant part of the downward correction of the Basque macroeconomic picture for 2021, rising from 6.7% expected in September to 5.6% currently. Another part of this preventive moderation is due to the drowned ones who have occurred during the production chains, since the offer has not been able to supply the great increase of the demands in due time. This is especially remarkable in certain sectors, as in caring, which are obliged to stand before the lack of ingredients. The high demand for goods exists and it is a matter of time that the supply is in line with the strong demand. This is therefore a delay in production, not a weakness of the productive fabric. In other words, part of the GDP that is not going to be able to generate in the remainder of the year will shift its growth to the year 22. This explains why the new macroeconomic table has included an upward revision for next year, in particular, compared to the estimated real growth of 6.4% in September, now an increase of 6.7% is expected for next year. Another important element of the present state must be mentioned: Up to the prices. Because there are some ingredients and primary issues missing, the price has been raised, which is spreading out into the whole economy. The increase is seen in the CPI and GDP deflator, as well as in other indicators. In the case of the deflator, an increase of 1.4 % was expected in September for 2021, consistent with the calculations of the European bodies; however, it is now assumed that all prices will rise above that figure. In our scenario we have raised the GDP deflator for the year 2022 to 2.4%, a figure that reflects the rise in consumer prices – as you know, the CPI in Euskadi until October has been 5% – and of the unit value indices that measure the evolution of export and import prices, which both grew strongly in the second quarter of this year. The increase in the deflator of GDP in the current macroeconomic scenario is important in the calculation of nominal GDP, i.e. the value in euro of the goods and services generated in Euskadi. In the September forecast of nominal GDP, nominal GDP grew by 7.9%, but at present nominal growth is expected at 9.3%. In this respect, it should be recalled that nominal GDP, rather than real GDP, is related to the revenue capacity that justifies the budgets of the year 22. Therefore, the new macroeconomic scenario reflects a downward revision of real and nominal GDP figures in the 21st and a upward revision of those in the 22nd, as a result of a shift in time from part of the production planned for this year to the next and an increase in the prices of the economy as a whole. In the area of employment, the revision of the forecasts is hardly changing compared to September. Thus, the number of people joining the new scenario "will find employment" will be 13,390 this year and 11,500 next year. The favourable trend in employment will have an effect on the unemployment rate, which will be 10% this year on an annual average and will fall to 9.2% next year. Moving on to comment on the financial macroeconomic picture for the year 22, as regards income, the contributions of the deputies... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... for the year 22, in terms of revenue, the contributions of the outlaws, representing 84 % of the total revenue of the Basque Government, amount to EUR 11,003 million, an increase of EUR 1,384.7 million, 14.4% more than those budgeted for the financial year 2021. However, with regard to the pre-liquidation estimated by the Basque Finance Council at its meeting on 15 October, growth is EUR 452 million, 4.3% more. The amount from the European Funds, the ESF, the ERDF, the EAGF, the EAFRD and the EMFF together amounts to EUR 258.7 million. However, for the second consecutive year, the funds that may be available from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism have not been budgeted, since, as they will be earmarked for the specific financing of actions and projects linked to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, their eligibility will occur as they are entered into or when there are firm commitments from the State to contribute, as foreseen in the Budget Act itself. Similarly, it is also expected that the remaining amounts which at the end of year 21 present the budgetary appropriations financed by MRR will automatically be incorporated into the General Budgets for year 22 for application in the same expenditure. On the other hand, the agreement reached in the Joint Concert Committee last July enables us to reach a deficit of 0.9% for the year 22 as a reference rate. The scenario included in the 2022 budgets is EUR 683.2 million in net debt, with depreciations of EUR 746.4 million, which means gross emissions of EUR 1.429.6 million. This prediction of raw mentality will be reduced to a hundred and twenty-two million Euros compared to the event of two thousand and twenty-one, in consequence of the increase of contributions and the use of the remainders for money, 250 million euros. Besides, 190 million dollars will be paid for interest. With these figures, the public debt in the year 22 will not exceed 15,6 % of GDP, also the reference rate agreed within the joint concert commission. You are well aware of the main dimensions of the budget by departments, sectors and activities and public policies, but I am going to stop in some aspects only quantitatively. Health is again the department, logically, with the largest budget, about 4,352 million euros, which is 168 million euros more than in the year 21. Education, for its part, with 3,235 million euros, represents an increase of 126.9 million euros compared to the year 21, and that department includes investments in the amount of 41.3 million extra. The Department of Labour and Employment is the third largest, with €936.2 million. Here, it is worth mentioning the inclusion of several new programmes to ensure the employability of young people, women and over 45 years of age. With regard to income guarantee income, although the amounts are increased by 3% compared to 1.8 this year, the improvement in employment and the economic impact of Vital Minimum Income adjust the budget allocation, which amounts to EUR 345 million, which, of course, can be extended if necessary. For its part, Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment will handle a budget of 777,4 million euros, with an overall increase of 123,3 million. Security, the fifth department with a budget of 725.1 million euros, has an increase of 33.2 million euros. Territorial Planning, Housing, Transport has 564.4 million, with an increase of 57.6 million euros. Equality, Justice and Social Policy will have €528.6 million, with an increase of €67.1 million. As you know, the main novelty is that a new programme, that of prison institutions, is included in the amount of EUR 70 million. The Department of Culture, Linguistic Policy, grows to 322.4 million euros, 32.6 million euros more than in the year 21. And Public Governance and Self-Government presents a budget of 139.2 million euros, with an increase of 9.8. The Department of Economics and Finance will handle a budget of 128.6 million euros, with an increase of 41.6 million euros. The most striking is the contribution of 50 million euros to the capital of the public society Finkatze Kapitala-Finkatuz, through the Basque Institute of Finance. Tourism, Trade and Consumption increases its budget to EUR 52.1 million, EUR 4.8 million more, with EUR 22.4 million earmarked for Tourism and Hospitality, EUR 19.9 million earmarked for Trade and nearly EUR 6 million earmarked for Kontsumobide. Finally, Lehendakaritza will have 35.5 million euros, 3.1 million euros more than this year 21. As regards the articulated text of the Draft Budget Act for the financial year 22, it consists of 5 Titles, 40 Articles, 14 Additional Provisions, a Transitional Provision, 7 Final Provisions and 4 Annexes that complement it. In the First Amendment and innovation, the choice has entered for the first time, the budget of the public organization in the Basque Agency of private law, which had recently arisen through the 3/2021 Act of September 30th, and will begin its activities in a January 2022. In like manner, the budget of the public society has been increased by the funding of finizal Capital, created in 2021. On the other hand, the budget structure of public bodies under private law, public corporations and foundations in the public sector has been modified, so that it no longer differs between the operating budget and the capital budget, but that the corresponding allocations and resources are integrated into a single budget, distinguishing the expenditure and revenue of the activity on the one hand and the investments and sources of financing on the other. First... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... in a single budget, distinguishing expenditure and revenue from activity on the one hand and investments and sources of funding on the other. In the first title, the 9th and 10 articles tend to establish, respectively, certain guarantees and refining limits, and even to manufactures of debts. Title II provides, in relation to the content of budgets, for different provisions relating to statements of expenditure. The third chapter of this title is of the measure of rewards and passive receivings. As to this, in general, he foresees the maximum increase of 2% to all the workers who serve the public sector, including those which were later recorded in 2021. As in the previous year, a chapter – Articles 26 to 33 – on the Next Generation, the funds linked to Next Generation EU and, more specifically, the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, approved by the Government of Spain in April 2021, is included in this expenditure statement under the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism established by the institutions of the European Union. I cannot resist, at this point, to make them part of the reflections that, in the department I lead, is propitiating the way in which the State has decided to govern the management of the so-called Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. It would be fair and appropriate to say, in this regard, that what I heard months ago has been criticized for the sense that the state management of the RRM should become a rather insecure and tax model has been fully confirmed. So this 2021 exercise the state management of the MRR has been sown of legal insecurity, managerial imposition and taking autonomy as its own means to execute the projects to which they have unilaterally directed their state policies with European money. Almost more respectful would have resulted in any agreed management order. I think it does not correspond to what Euskadi and any autonomy deserves and, sincerely, I hope that this will change something and we will have opportunities for joint decision-making. And for this we are working with the Madrid Government on a permanent and close basis. With regard to income - Title III of the draft law - the amount of general contributions approved by the Basque Finance Council at the meeting held on 15 October 2021 and the contribution coefficients for each territory, also approved by the Basque Finance Council in accordance with that methodology, are recorded. On the other hand, Chapter 2 on rules of a tax nature provides for the updating of flat-rate rates, with a general increase of 1,5 % of the amount payable in year 21. In the latter part, the bill receives 14 additional regulations, and these regulations, without structure, impose certain peculiarities in regard to the general regulation of the budget. These provisions include an increase in the amount of income guarantee income by 3 % over the amount applied during the financial year 2021, the establishment of a fixed amount of EUR 275 per month for the supplementary housing benefit and the economic housing benefit, as well as the authorization to the Government to regulate and dispose of as much as is necessary in connection with the processes of administrative reorganization of the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community. As new developments, additional provisions 12th, 13th and 14th are included. The bill completes with seven final provisions. The first final provision contains several amendments to the consolidated text of the Law on Fees and Public Prices of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. The second final provision, for its part, provides for a gradual application of the type of levy on the water canon, the new regulation of which will enter into force on 1 January 2022. The fourth final provision includes several amendments to the consolidated text of the existing legal provisions on the Euskadi budgetary system. On the one hand, it is intended to accommodate its wording in relation to the new budget structure of public bodies under private law, public corporations and foundations in the public sector, so that it no longer differentiates between the operating budget and the capital budget, but that the corresponding allocations and resources are integrated into a single budget. On the other hand, the settlement of general budgets changes. In this Illus first, it will extend to the 30th of June to the settlement of general budgets in order to facilitate the accounting of the institutions under General Accounting. Secondly, if we agree with the agreement of the legal order of our circle, it is no longer foreseen that the settlement of the budget should be accepted by a bill of law, but that, after having made a settlement, we must send it to the American Basque Court of the People, and that process will end the intervention of the New Year's litigation. In line with the new system of approval of the liquidation of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the fifth final provision includes the amendment of Article 9.4 of the Act of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, in order to provide that this institution, after issuing its report, forwards the documentation relating to the liquidation together with that report to Parliament for consideration and corresponding processing. These, after all, are the principal magnitudes and characters of the bill of law of General Pre Account for the 2022 act of Euscal Autonomia Erria. On 2 November, on the occasion of the presentation of the draft budgets in committee and by way of conclusion, I made an invitation to the parliamentary dialogue and agreement so that these accounts would come out with greater consensus than those of the parliamentary majority supporting the Government. Because the attitude of this government and of this department has always been, even in a majority situation, to try to attract new consensuses that strengthen public policies that spill over the budget presented. And so, I pointed out then that all those... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...to attract new consensuses that reinforce public policies that deliver the budget presented. And so I pointed out that all those suggestions, amendments or agreements that, focused on what is our competence and on a principle of political-economic realism, would be welcome, would be able to generate improvements in the accounts presented so that they would have a wider political viability. At this point you all know that after the effort made the executive has signed an agreement with the parliamentary group EH Bildu, so that EH Bildu will not oppose the project presented by the government. And with his abstention from the accounts for the coming year, he comes indirectly to endorse the Executive's budgetary approach with some modifications. It has not been possible to do the same with the Basque-Citizen People's parliamentary group or with the group represented by the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition, for different reasons. Certainly, the differences in approach in the model of accounts to be presented to Basque society by the year 2022 between this Department and the parliamentary group Popuñar-Citizens made any transit irreconcilable in order to overcome the relative gulf already observed as a starting point. Thus, in the face of a way of dealing with annual spending from very fair parameters through non-expansive income, even by lowering taxes, this government has presented a clearly incremental budget to deal with this economic moment by taking advantage of a countercyclical reality in the rules of fiscal consolidation. The talks with the Elkarrekin group We can, who, in response to a negotiating platform full of questions, albeit legitimate, of an extra-budgetary and ideological nature, were made an offer of budgetary reallocation of more than 72 million euros in public policies elected by them and supposedly priority. In addition, they were promised to activate the 90 million by 2021 of the energy sustainability fund for the Basque municipalities. Even so, they were exclusively stuck in the rigidity of the approach that seemed to require the coalition, which gave way to the talks not to be content by the Government in its political approaches, enumerated by themselves, such as the failure to recover 4,000 health care places after the pandemic, the failure to pay attention to an inclusive educational model or the refusal to create a society of generation and commercialization of clean public-owned energies. The feeling with Euskal Herria Bildu, with whom an agreement has been reached for his abstention on the accounts of 2022, has been the opposite. In other words, in response to its first negotiating approach document, the Government responded with an economic offer similar to that of Elkarrekin Podemos, which logically aimed to put funding in its priorities. From there, and without fully satisfying virtually any of the six strictly political approaches, but responding sincerely but tangentially to three of them, very much in the budget style agreed in Navarre, by the way, to find the rest alien to a negotiation of nature that was being maintained. As I said at the beginning of my speech, one of the commitments is to raise investment in R & D to 12% in the years 23 and 24. Therefore, a strictly budgetary cut-off agreement has been reached in many economic extremes to, above all, deepen existing spending policies in the government project. I will not say that activating 90 million of the energy sustainability fund by the year 21, redistributing and increasing public spending policies, in payment and commitment for EUR 86 million by 2022, for social, environmental or youth policies, and ensuring increases in research and development policies at some percentage points in what remains of the legislature are minor issues; they are not. It is important, and that is why a real and generous offer has been made, but what is truly relevant, obviously, is a change of course in the will of the coalition towards the institutional board of Euskadi, its own political strategies and its way of acting both internally and externally. I'm saying it from experience. Will makes agreements and lack of will prevents them. That this has been done on the basis of a budget law, as I said to you earlier, the most important law of how many are adopted in the year, and at a time when its contribution is irrelevant for budgetary approval, I think it is equally important. I think it is a very important agreement, a useful policy bet, and I sincerely, sincerely appreciate EH Bildu's attitude at the meetings we have held, as I hope the coalition will appreciate the sincerity and the search for agreements that the Government has always maintained to join the budgetary consensus, even with abstention. As much as, on the other hand, it is accentuated over and over again that this is not your budget, I, like much of Basque society, understand that this, in some way, is also Bildu's budget, since they are not against it. There will be other readings, but mine ends here, in the opening of a path and the foreword, perhaps, of other agreements. I finish now, and I do so by claiming the budget as an economic policy instrument. A, I think, good budget for the times ahead, an instrument that has managed to bring together high wills and majorities around it. A realistic, achievable and open budget for new economic integrations from European funding and new interinstitutional investment agreements with the historic territories. A budget for economic recovery and employment generation in our country. A budget that does not forget the sectors and people who are going through the worst and that puts public economic resources in the hands and service of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The Misto Team has the representatives who are here to defend the full correction of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today they confront here different ways of interpreting the reality of this region, different opinions about the problems and needs of those who live, undertake and work in the Basque Country, different political options and country models. And no one will be surprised if we conclude from our diagnosis of the situation that the solution to the problems of this region... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...different policy options and country models. And no one will be surprised if we conclude from our diagnosis of the situation that the solution to the problems of this region is more Spain: the country that is of all those who are in this Parliament. In Vox we believe that much needs to be changed: the general approach of these budgets for the national construction of their longing Euskal Herria, a failed and discriminatory linguistic policy, submission to globalist agendas that generate unresolved problems, which really exist. This cross-cutting axis of gender policies that promote inequality, and that are far from solving something as real as violence, for example, within the family. Nothing changes if everything keeps doing the same. That is why we are calling for these accounts to be returned to the Government, and for our entire amendment to have a name and surname. Let our bet also for the Basque Country be the Spanish agenda. That it is not yours, it is clear, with that dark alliance that they have sealed with EH Bildu to ensure their abstention; proof that these budgets are of rupture and not of union. EH Bildu's abstention confirms that these are the budgets for national construction, because otherwise abertzale support would have been unthinkable. True, this historical turn will never appear in the history books, but it offers EH Bildu new possibilities to whiten his past complicit with the violence of ETA. To consolidate himself as an actor in political theatre, without paying toll or entry, without delegitimizing terrorism, without renouncing his violent and independenceist discourse. Those who have done more for the destruction of this region are now being sold as agents for progress. Those who have prepared these budgets can sell, open, open to dialogue and consensus. The battle for the story that contaminates everything. He said that they are accounts for national construction, insisting on fundamental elements of his strategy of fine rain to consolidate as a social reality that which was born in Sabin Etxea and in the herriko taverns. And two are its flag instruments: EITB and its linguistic policy. We have already talked a lot about EITB: a public entity that only seems to be about the formations they govern. Its editorial line is deeply nationalist, and sometimes secessionist, with a marked tendency towards contempt and even insult to political choices of Spanish court. EUR 161 million for partial information, for the imposition of Basque over Spanish, to represent a country with its own language and culture, as defined by the entity itself. Part of a falsehood that makes truth unquestionable and spreads it, moreover, to the four winds. On the other hand, Basque: the language that has been the flag of violent independence, which is an instrument for the educational, social and labour discrimination of those who do not have the linguistic profiles that you impose. Its linguistic policy is pure imposition. It is discrimination against the Spanish, the language that is that of all the people who live in the Basque Country. But it has a strategic value for you: it is the difference between Basque and Spanish. It's more distance; it's more national construction. And what about your new Basque embassy in Paris: more national construction. It is budgeted at a million euros, to which many others will necessarily follow, and which will only serve to reinforce that interested image of country with representation abroad. I must confess that I consider myself Spanish, and that I also love to use the name of Spain, that of my country, in this scenario in which everything Spanish seems Lucifer's work. I love to see how it bothers you with a term that concentrates all the threats to your Basque national exclusion project. The alternative, I repeat, is Spain; the one Vox draws on the Spanish agenda. Its sole objective is to protect the Spaniards, meet their needs and provide the next generations with a horizon of freedom, equality, prosperity, justice and respect for values and traditions. Our agenda is the alternative to yours, the 2030 Agenda, which permeates your budgets and your political action. It is the alternative to globalism once again, committed to solving problems that do not exist. It is the alternative to these policies, self-proclaimed as progressive, although in this case progressive is to progress, which portfoliors. That is why its ecological and energy transition and its gender policy hangs. I, a woman, am a strong advocate of equal opportunities and rights, regardless of gender. Defender of equality, also in duties before the justice, in any scenario of life. And I cannot communicate with the victimism concerned that sums up that cross-cutting gender policy that so many millions compromise and discriminates against man for the mere fact of being so. In Irekia we can read these policies, which take 16.5 % of a budget of more than EUR 13 billion. Now, yes, these budgets, like the previous ones, are the most of everything: the most social, the most daring, the most necessary, the best, the only possible. Right, Mr. Azpiazu? Propaganda and more propaganda, because, for starters, that increase to which you allude in relation to the accounts of the current exercise is a fallacious fact. When we draw up the entire Vox amendment, we update the accounts in force for September, and we see that the announced growth is virtually zero. In addition, they announce that eight out of every ten euros are earmarked for social policies, when the real figure is that eight out of every ten euros are committed expenditure. They are more of the same: insisting on what was already being done. But that does, in a very different context, extremely conditioned by the health crisis and the management that this government has made of them. These are figures that are based on economic estimates that hang on one thread, and that are based on more tax burden and a growing public debt. This will have to be paid for, us or our children. The higher tax revenues translate into higher taxes, and the incorporation, in addition, of some more, such as the green ones. More pressure, less purchasing power, and here there's no magic possible. By the way, I am increasingly drawn to your obsessive spending on HABE at the Institute for the Euskaldunization of Adults. Subsidy, for example, to media for the use of Basque; media aids published in Basque. The many euros earmarked for party foundations to finance, for example, also trade unions. For entities of all kinds and conditions, whose only social contribution is invisible. Emakunde is another flagrant case: millions of euros for the Basque Institute for Women, which only reaches women working in Emakunde, introducing the gender perspective in every possible way, makes sense or not. I have never been called to take an interest in the good treatment I receive every day in this Basque Parliament. And we can also talk about Ararteko, the Gogora Institute, an insult to those of us who have memories... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... I have been called to take an interest in the good treatment I receive every day in this Basque Parliament. And we can also talk about Ararteko, the Gogora Institute, an insult to those of us who have memory and do not resign ourselves to the imposition of memorylessness, to the rereading of history to conceal real history. And I return to the beginning of this speech, to those pacts with EH Bildu in this House and in Madrid. Pacts to erase the criminal past of ETA and its political arm, institutes to change history, maximum permissiveness for those who until recently paid tribute on the public street to serial killers released from prison or demanded freedom for serial killers who have been in prison for less years than deaths have caused. There is no more expenditure, for example, for prevention, nor for the control of illegal immigration, to solve the problems of insecurity in neighbourhoods that, on the contrary, they seek to hide, to act against the new forms of crime that are born and grow in this world of new technologies. And I'm closing up. These budgets are not Vox's because they do not pursue equality between Spaniards, the unity of Spain. They are accounts for just the opposite, to increase differences and separate this region and its people from their country. We refuse to be accomplices to this Government, let alone its last-minute ally. Vox is not going to be content with a few coins, with a couple of superficial arrangements, because there's no one to fix these accounts. This draft budget is only arranged by returning it to the Government. Because yes, Mr Azpiazu, we are in the antipodes of your budget and of course also of your partners.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u4	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Does anyone want to participate in the opposite round? So, Basque Group... Yeah. On the other side? Ah, well, Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u5	Yeah. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Martínez, today in this rostrum they presented as a complete amendment to the Euskadi budgets the partial transposition of the amendment to the entire Vox for the general state budgets. And it is to be thanked that they have taken the trouble to do just the short and stick here to point 7 of their amendment in the Congress of Deputies, which is entitled "Preface the globalist agendas embodied in the 2030 Agenda to the interests of Spain and the Spanish". And from there, the content of his amendment of the whole to the budget of Euskadi goes without saying a misconception, with headings equal, similar and similar to those proposed against the budgets of the Government of Spain. And so they arm their speech of hatred and what is good for the state because it is also good for Euskadi. In their speech xenophobia, machism and claim the anti-democratic principles and values that they so much like to preach to the four winds from populism and the most racy demagogy. Mrs Martínez, against your amendment to the whole is the Spanish Constitution. In two articles the Spanish Constitution dismantles all the arguments on which it has based its amendment and speech today. And these two articles are as follows: Article 2, which recognizes and guarantees the right to autonomy of the nationalities and regions that integrate it and to solidarity among them all. And Article 3, paragraph 1, Spanish is the official Spanish language of the State; point 2, the other Spanish languages will also be official in the respective autonomous communities according to their statutes; and point 3, the richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be the object of special respect and protection. And these Euskadi budgets for 2022 are expansive and investor budgets, leaving aside populisms and ideological delusions and nostalgias from past times. They demand present and future opportunities for all Basque society and propose actions and programmes to strengthen gender policies, which in no way oppose equality between Basques or Spaniards, as you claim. For Basque Socialists fiscal policy is not an expoliation of Basque citizenship, nor does Agenda 2030 propose the destruction of the middle classes or the liquidation of the sovereignty of nations, nor deindustrialization, nor does it pose a climate religion, nor does it attack the family, or life, or the common roots of the West. The gender perspective and the LGTBI policies do run counter to Vox's idea. And the items whose suppression you claim and reiterate under almost all the headings of your amendment are the same for a break as for a break-up. Because, look, they propose to remove the same heading to achieve equality between Spaniards, to achieve unity in Spain, to obtain employment, to obtain decent wages, education in freedom and the solution to the health problem. All of it, all of it, with a... with the same game. Abolition of a budget line solves all these issues. We have achieved a miracle: a departure, a wide range of issues. And Vox says he has an alternative model, but he doesn't present a single partial amendment that proposes it or corroborates it. The Basque Socialists will vote against their amendment to the whole because their participation in politics seeks to weaken democratic coexistence, seeks the deterioration of public policies, seeks to undermine the social state and boost the rule of law. And their interest in last year's budgetary debate and also in this has been to challenge the democratic system, because they do not share its rules, because they do not share the autonomous system and because they ultimately despise politics. The Socialists will vote against the amendment to the entire Vox because their defence intervention and the amendment itself convey a message of hatred, the message of insult, sectarianism and intolerance in a society such as Basque and Spanish that are free and democratic societies. And the Basque Socialists defend these budgets because we are not going to take a single step backwards in the conquest of rights and freedoms of citizenship, nor of Basque citizenship, nor of Spanish citizenship. And in Vox they have to learn that in Euskadi, in Spain, we all fit, we all fit, and that we have decided to live together in peace. The vision of Basque society that Vox... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... Euskadi, in Spain, we all belong, we all belong and we have decided to live together in peace. The vision of Basque society that Vox claims is so overworked that they go beyond braking and are not credible, Mrs Martínez. They want to impose a catastrophic vision, a negative vision on everything and on everyone. Their values and principles are based on the law of the jungle, the law of the strongest. And that goes against strengthening democracy. It goes against the redistribution of wealth. And it goes against building a fair and balanced Basque society. Vox is unwilling to cooperate in the just recovery of Euskadi, because they do not believe in it, because they fight against it. And that's why they want to adjust and reduce public spending, because Euskadi's economic recovery harms them and is not profitable either politically or electorally. You're going to the thick line. They don't give a single data to support their thesis. They go from reports, statistics and data that expose the contrary to their sophlames. It only interests manipulation and to counter nationalism with more nationalism. And you draw, Mrs Martínez, a nightly ideology that represses xenophobia, intolerance, machism and an ultra-radical centralist nationalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Passing on the answers, Mist, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u7	Well, Mrs. Corcuera, in view of what you said, of course, it doesn't make much sense. He's insulted us directly to all of Vox's. He called us xenophobes... What do you mean, no? Are you saying no to me? Xenophobes, anti-nationalists... Well, a number of things I'm not going to go into either, because it's not the time to go into the debate about these kinds of situations, and it's not something that characterizes me. So, that said, I will tell you that in Vox we have the same ideology, the same thinking and the same performance in all the autonomous communities. We don't have feuds or taifas kingdoms. And in each of us we act differently. I really want to make that very clear to you. But what is obvious is that we have already had many years of fine rain to make a supposed national feeling of Basque citizenship real. It is many years already raca-raca, to work for the differentiation of Basque versus Spanish in all possible scenarios: in education, in communication, in the primary sector, more recent also in the management of the pandemic. We could agree even with some games and with others not, of course, since we are different formations, with ideologies, in many cases, opposite. But the problem is fundamental, because these are not accounts that seek a greater connection between Basques and the rest of Spain. And you know it. There is no sign of solidarity with the whole of Spain, nor is there any recognition of the kindness that the umbrella of Spain gives to the brand Euskadi. The egocentrism that emanates from this draft budgets is only comparable to the vision of the region that gives EITB in its different spaces, the center of the world, the origin of all goods, despite the unacceptable repression of Spain. But without Spain you would be absolutely nothing. Without the Spanish Constitution, as you very well recalled, there would not even be the Basque Government, nor would you be Members of the Basque Parliament, simply because it would not exist. And that is why I urge you, the solution to the problems of these regions is more Spain, more solidarity, more collaboration and more involvement in national affairs than to all those present here and all Basques, moreover, affect us. You said that we had not made any amendments. Of course not, because there was no way to amend it. I've said it from the beginning. And, on the other hand, Mr Azpiazu's education in contacting Vox was manifest, so, as you will understand, that game does not go with us. That game is not for Vox. On the other hand, I have to tell him that he says it's not credible. The amendment we have made has nothing to do with that of the Spanish Government. You read it, because I don't think you've read it, but it's totally different. But you speak of credible, that Vox is not credible in his proposals. But, for God's sake, is Mr. Sanchez credible? I remember you saying up to five, six, seven times you wouldn't deal with Bildu. And I think, in the end, he did it, so don't you, gentlemen of the PSOE, talk about what is credible or not credible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u8	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Second time for answers, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u9	Thank you, President. Mrs Martínez, the one who did not read Vox's amendment in the Congress of Deputies is you, because, look, it is point 7, literal, literal, paragraph to paragraph, literal. Look, the Basque Socialists will vote no to the amendment to the whole of Vox, because we radically reject a project that denies the plural reality of Spain, which denies the fundamental principles where to sustain a full coexistence between different people. Doing politics from hatred is not going to serve Vox or the far right. Making politics from resentment is, in the end, frustration. And the socialists, with 135 years of history, we bet on a project in which we all fit, without exception. Thus we have been able to build an antagonistic model to which you propose. We have fought, and we continue to work for a model of modern, plural and transformative country. And that's what these budgets are for. They have not put forward in their full amendment a single solution or proposal to tackle the economic and social recovery of Basque society, nor the challenges of Basque society in this new phase of the pandemic. They did not pose a solution to any of the challenges in the pandemic's resistance phase. And they don't do it now. They have not asked the Government a single question to try to clarify anything. That is why they go against these budgets in advance. It is no longer a matter of partial amendments. It's just they haven't asked a question. It's just that you haven't worked on it, Mrs. Martinez, so clear. Therefore, you do not intend to even pose or face the transformations that are already coming. Vox doesn't like these accounts, because these budgets are a vaccine against totalitarianism that promotes their... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... The transformations that are already coming. Vox doesn't like these accounts, because these budgets are a vaccine against totalitarianism that promotes his amendment and speech. These budgets are realistic budgets that position us well against the challenges of the future, which must be looked at with respect, but with hope. For the Basque Socialists, social spending, Mrs Martínez, is never going to be a waste or a waste. To Vox that of emancipation and the right to housing is great. And you do not share a strong social state, you do not share the public services on which the welfare state rests, and your policy is to challenge the autonomous model. And we are going to vote against the Vox amendment, because the Socialists will defend these Euskadi budgets as a tool to combat populism and because they are based on a strong welfare state, because inequalities must be reduced and opportunities must be given to the Basque society to get out of the crisis. In your speech, you have sought to highlight budgets that are alien to the development of a modern Basque society and that are prepared to face the great challenges and transformations that are being promoted in Europe and to which we from Euskadi aspire and in which we are ready to work as today's challenges in order to have a certain future. That is why we strongly reject your amendment to all these budgets by 2022.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Next, the representative of the Basque Popular Group, Ciudadnos, has the word. It's your turn, sir, to make the word a full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u11	Eskerrik asko legebiltzarburu andrea, Sailburu jauna, andreak, jaun-andreok, lehendakari, tax cuts, push out of the crisis, tax cuts, gentlemen of the Basque Government. They reduce the tax burden on Basques, families, self-employed people and Basque companies. Impulse a great deal of agreement with the parliaments, with the municipalities to reduce so much asphyxiating tribute. I'm telling you this because it's a cry in our society. That's why we need to start talking about it. That is what common sense dictates, what makes so many governments of our environment and exactly the opposite of what you are doing despite the record of collection. That is why, first of all, we have tabled this amendment in its entirety, calling for the return of the bill to the Government, because tax reform is the first step towards a solid, consistent recovery, a pending measure. A measure pending since the last legislature, which is now urgent and for which we have an instrument as powerful as the Economic Concert. Ladies and gentlemen, the exit from the crisis generated by COVID-19 requires a reduction in the tax burden on families and businesses. You presented this budget by talking about record figures in spending, record in investment, but you forgot that all these records are achieved with a record of taxes, i.e. by expressing citizens' pockets. His Government did, in fact, raise fees and fees for 2002 without taking account of reasons; it launched the application of the water canon, which had a direct impact on the bills of all households. They increase services, they take in families and businesses. It is not the way out of crises, nor is it the way to centralize resources. This year, with a new Law on Contributions in force, the Basque Government already receives almost 71% of the total collection. It continues to increase its participation, more than seven out of ten euros will pass to its arks, lehendakari. This increasingly blatantly centralist approach makes it impossible for outlaws as holders of tax competition to address a reduction in tax pressure. It is therefore necessary to commit the Basque Government from a greater respect for outside and municipal autonomy in order to promote fiscal reform. From our point of view, these budgets should have started, giving resources back to other institutions and leaving the money in the hands of the citizens. In fact, with this premise of impulse of tax reform, we offered to negotiate support for budgets. We show our willingness and make it clear that it would not be a waste of resources. We have written to you on the basis of this budgetary agreement. In other words, our PP-Citizens Group was open to a sincere dialogue with the Government. We were trying to get the budget that the Basques needed and we need to put the crisis behind us, get jobs back, guarantee the well-being of our fellow citizens and do our homework in the face of a future that is not going to be easy for anyone. But it was impossible. It was not possible to make progress towards those goals. Your Government, Mr Urkullu, showed the same receptivity as the harshest limestone in the Duranguesedo. They have opted, in sight, for other covenants with other objectives. Mimetic pacts to which they second in Madrid and which involve the trial of alternative majorities to which the pact represents with the Basque socialists. In any case, if Sanchez and Andueza open the door to the pact with Bildu, you, Mr Urkullu, open the windows to them in pairs. It is a radical turn of the PNV, in our view, in the wrong direction. It is not the first time, it is true, because some of us are very aware of the baptism of the PNV in the pact of Estella and the pacts of the government of Ibarretxe with Otegi. Nothing good brought for the Basques those pacts, and nothing good can be expected either of this one. Because today, as then, the most important part of this pact with Bildu is the part that we certainly don't know, the one that is insinuated between lines in his statements or is deduced from underwriting silences. We believe that the pact with Bildu is a pact for imposition, exclusion, the break that is being rehearsed in the budgets for the moment, but that it can have another journey unfortunately. To start with, that if it is public, it does not seem that Bildu has anything to object to tax increases and other taxes, but I think we will remember this pact, for example, when we see how to exercise the new powers in prison institutions, and also when we have to address the reform of the Basque Public School Law, because its new partners intend to ignore the failure of linguistic imposition for three decades and apply a new twist to that same imposition. And surely it is no coincidence that the supposed new status and the open door to independence, as intended self-determination, is again in the mouth of so many PNV spokespersons in the days following the announcement of the budget pact with Bildu and on the anniversary of the Constitution. All this, logically, implies the imposition of nationalist radicality, the exclusion of the majority of dissenting Basques and the rupture with the current constitutional and statutory framework, that is, the rupture of coexistence between Basques. It's more likely than all of this, the possibility of creating a new... [[(End of tape 10) oc9. beginning of tape.]] ... with the current constitutional and statutory framework, i.e., breaking the coexistence between Basques. It is more likely that all this, the possibility of forming a new nationalist majority, motivates Bildu's position on the budgets of the year 2022 much more than the accounting table they have made public. The background is the budget, but we are facing the extension to Euskadi under the leadership of the PNV of existing pacts in the Congress of Deputies or in Navarre. Time will tell if by doing so they give the bear's hug to Bildu, as they claim, away the ghost from the left-wing pact, or simply contribute to his legitimation as an alternative. In any case, gentlemen of the Government, Mr Lehendakari, this pact does not alter the essence of the budget. A budget in which they have preferred to forget about the citizens and also the reality to present accounts at their convenience, with much more propaganda than serious approaches. Something like Mr Sánchez having to present and defend the budget in Euskadi. I say this because its budget is unreal and is based on outdated forecasts; nor is recovery as strong as it could appear a few months ago, nor have they taken into account the economic and social circumstances when formulating their accounts. The whole triumphal macroeconomic picture in which their forecasts have passed is already wet paper. It's been many months and you're trying to keep everything the same. It is not true, reality denies each of its claims. Their budgets, the documentation they have sent us, are merely a voluntary exercise, without any anchoring with reality. And look, ladies and gentlemen, all the economic and financial institutions, all of them, even even Mr Sánchez's own government, all except you, have revised downwards the forecasts they made in the summer of job creation, GDP growth or domestic demand. All of them. BBVA, Funcas, Bank of Spain, European Commission, International Monetary Fund, ten days ago OECD, but you don't. In September, their forecasts improved, and by the end of October, in memory of the budgets, we were told that all international agencies are reviewing growth forecasts upwards. False. Moreover, they pointed to domestic demand, particularly households, as the main engine of growth. Even more fake. Because that engine, already with the data on September 30, was and is in negative. As you can see, any resemblance of your figures to reality is pure coincidence. They have not taken into account in correcting their forecasts and, therefore, their budgets the increases in energy prices, the problems of the depletion of industry or the blocking of supply chains. Much less the sozobra that creates each new strain of coronavirus, nor the effect that all this has on inflation, confidence, employment or consumption. It is impossible to build a credible budget without updating that macroeconomic picture that I was telling you, because there are obvious risks that have been disregarded. They have not paid any attention to what is happening in our environment, nor have they even appealed to prudence when calculating income so that abrupt cuts are avoided in the future when reality is imposed on the tale of the Basque oasis. Therefore, what brings us to debate today is a rise in fiscal pressure and an unrealistic and out of date budget for 2022. Is this really your government's public policy management tool, lehendakari? Are these great captain's accounts for 2022 the economic translation of your policy for next year? I'm telling you because you have to think about it and ask us, and when the forecasts go down, what? They'll say they didn't know? How will they meet the challenges of the future? Because that's the stage, they know it as we all know it. You have a plan b, we know it, and you say: European funds. European embryo funds, important for facing real transformative projects, no doubt, but still surrounded by mist. We do not know how much money we will have, or what projects, unfortunately, will benefit, or whether they will truly be transformative or not. But we do know that the counter-reform of work or the indefinite future of pensions, and some other things, can delay or hinder the arrival of these funds in Spain. And it does not seem logical, therefore, to entrust everything to the manna of European funds. It is neither logical nor necessary, because the truth is that your government has its own funds, without waiting for European funds. And you have plan c, because you have enough funds also to absorb the impact on the collection of any fall in activity or tax reform that would be committed in this regard. His plan c is the remnants. It is true that they do not like to talk about it, they prefer it to be something more opaque, less known, because it discovers the shortcomings of its management. After all, one thing is that the public administrations collect to cover the expenditure they make, but another very different and meaningless is that your government generates, Mr Urkullu and Mr Azpiazu, huge surpluses not used year after year. Those remnants would certainly be much better, from our point of view, in the hands of the citizens. It is another denial to the legend of the good management of the PNV. The crisis caused by the economic and social impact of COVID-19 has not helped this Government to improve its efficiency, efficiency or management capacity. With the latest figures recognized by the Government, they are not our numbers, they are yours, the remnants accumulated in recent years exceed 1 billion. I repeat, EUR 1 billion. This was told by the councillor in a well-known public forum a few weeks ago, and there is no reason to doubt the fact. In any case, the figure will have continued to grow. Nor do we find a willingness to flourish all those remnants, remnants that have a very clear origin. Although current expenditure is triggered each year, the truth is that investments are not implemented. Half, 50% of the investment, is not executed. So, year after year, that huge bag of remnants has been generated. And that's not all, because the remnants treasured in a way Uncle Gilito must be added to the remnants of other public entities and societies. And here the opacity is even greater, if I may. But some data we officially know, by the way – I emphasize, official – by the government itself. And it's very revealing. For example, only Lanbide – Lanbide, look – accumulated at the beginning of this year 272 million remnants. 272 million, you've heard well, they grow every year. So there is money, there is no need to wait for Europe and we have room to lower taxes. Another thing is that you do not want, because you are comfortable, comfortable I would say. They're fine... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... Europe does not have to wait and we have room to lower taxes. Another thing is that you don't want to, because you're comfortable. Accomodated, I'd say. They're doing well, even if the citizens don't go to the country too. Because, with a record of collection and a record of remnants, it is shameful that both traders, hoteliers, self-employed people and sectors of all kinds remain outside the aid they have been applying for for for more than a year. The remnants had to be used in this, in (...) massively, to deal with an unprecedented health emergency and to alleviate a major economic and social impact on families, hospitality traders and so many other companies in our country. You do not want to employ the remnants for what you are, to improve the life of the Basques, and you do not want to overcome any of the old lashes in your budget. After all, they have a majority, a little annoying partner, while the payroll is paid at the end of the month, and their priority is not to review, improve or reform anything. I'm talking about things that ring a bell, because I often remember them, but they're still there. Each year, in their budgets and in the implementation of budgets. Enforcement, by the way, which has not been referred to the House for many years, as is mandatory by law, as is mandatory by law. For example, you are still unable to contain the current expenditure, which goes on staff and to lift the blind. Every year they spend too much on the budget and leave the investment unimplemented. And of course, for that they need to suspend in every budget law the legal restrictions that would prevent them from transferring investment funds to current spending. They do so again by the 22nd, because it is much easier to do it wrong, as always, than to strive to improve management and meet the budget approved by this Chamber. Nor do they allow limits to the appointment of high-ranking officials and staff of free designation. We have proposed a limit of 200. Well, not content with increasing their numbers, salaries continue to increase, and I insist, salaries of political personnel, not salaries of officials. The same increase applies to managers of public entities and corporations, and they refuse to prohibit, as was the case at least until 2006, compensation clauses agreed with the same managers in the event of termination of their contracts. In other words, they refuse to ban armored management contracts in our institutional administration. And the truth, we don't believe, we don't think this worries Bildu anything when it comes to abstaining in the vote. Of course, there is money, always there is, for political cravings or chiringuitos at the service of the nationalist imagination. It is up to Basque taxpayers to finance Euskaldunisation in France or to pay the revenues, the huge expenses of a hypertrophied external representation. In 2022 we will add another million euros. It's said soon, another million euros to have a presence in Paris. His mythomania is very dear to us. What they still do not do, I say, is also the rationalization of our extensive, extensive and complex elephant, I would say, public sector. His reports speak of the possibility of saving 400 million avoiding duplication and overlaps. But you never consider it appropriate to limit the bottomless well of Euskal Irrati Telebista's losses – more than 300,000 euros a day, ladies and gentlemen, something like 75 euros per inhabitant of Euskadi every year – or to reconsider Lanbide to try to overcome its proven inefficiency. They have tried to replace, on the other hand, the effective control of European funds with information to Parliament. Because what continues to shine out of his absence is the effective capacity of the House to exercise that control. Like other years, the mechanisms envisaged for their incorporation and application favor opacity, and we do not believe, from our group, the People's and Citizens' Party, that this opacity will in no way favour the arrival of such funds. As you can see, there is no lack of reason to ask for the budget to be returned. But our group, PP-Citizens, believes that it is possible to do things differently. We have wanted to express this more clearly through the almost 1,500 partial amendments and the articulated text of the bill that we have tabled. The reallocation of funds and the priorities we put forward represent in practice an alternative project to which the Government has submitted to us. A project with seven fundamental axes, from our point of view. First of all, first of all, as I have already said, a great institutional agreement between the Basque Government, outside parliaments, also with the municipalities of our land, is essential in order to promote fiscal reform in Euskadi. This tax reform must reduce the tax burden on families, self-employed persons and businesses. Firstly, first of all, I have already said that, apart from this institutional agreement, we must also have a fundamental instrument for this, which is the Economic Concert. And we can do more and more easily than others do with less resources and fiscal powers. And you, Mr. Urkullu, are not doing it. The Basques need to face the long road of recovery and exit from the crisis in the best conditions. We therefore want to review all the tax burdens and promote greater availability of resources by citizens. Secondly, second, the incorporation into the budgets of 2022 of the more than 1 billion remnants existing and recognized by the Government itself, which I have commented on earlier. That money is there, and it is to be used for the benefit of the Basques. It would make it possible to compensate for any fall in revenue resulting from the proposed tax reform, thereby ensuring the level of public services. It would also facilitate the funding of the items and plans that I will develop below in this rostrum. At a time when so many needs overwhelm so many people and entire sectors in our land, it makes no sense to proceed in any other way. All resources must be geared towards economic and employment recovery. And so too should public bodies and societies in relation to their own remnants. We believe that a timetable and a deadline should be set for those remnants as well. In fact, it would be essential to begin by quantifying them. Another axis of our proposal is the third, it would be to establish a commitment by the Government in relation to the implementation of budgets. Of course, the growth of current expenditure must be halted and, to that end, it is necessary to veto by law the transfer of funds budgeted for investment expenditure to current expenditure. But, about... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... to the growth of current expenditure and, to this end, it is necessary to veto by law the transfer of funds budgeted for investment expenditure to current expenditure. But, above all, we must have mechanisms to ensure greater implementation of budgetary investments. It is a very old pending subject, in which the Basque Government needs to improve. It is no use budgeting, like this year, EUR 1.2 billion in investments, if in the end, most of them remain, as we all know in advance, on paper, and without further practical translation on the ground. And, speaking of the inescapable, it is necessary to set a definitive timetable for the effective arrival of the AVE in the three Basque capitals. I say 'effective arrival and definitive timetable', because Mr Sánchez's government is a mess, but we must also count on the commitment of the Basque institutions and on the will to put an end to the indefinite provisionality, which is the only thing we have on the table today. Another, and it only depends on ourselves, happens with other big investments. For example, firm funding and a definitive timetable are also essential to once and for all the Bilbao metro line 4 and 5. Our fourth axis would be a commitment to rationalising and modernising the public sector, an institutional complexity like ours requires continuous improvement. And that is why, to begin with, as I have already said, it is necessary to contain the current expenditure. Implementation of the Basque Government's own reports, which identify competition overlaps or administrative duplications. And, to continue, a good pruning of that extensive web of entities, agencies, public societies, that allows us to gain in efficiency and efficiency. I have commented earlier on the case of EITB, but also the VATP, Lanbide, are sinks of public resources with very little return in the services they provide to citizens. Just see the audience or user satisfaction indexes. Fifthly, fifthly, support for families and modernization of social policies. We propose from our group, PP-Citizens, to incorporate this same year, in this budget for 2022, an increase of 150 million euros with that objective. After the impact of the pandemic, families need more than ever support programs to ensure the health and well-being of all. New measures are needed to reconcile work and family life, and we must pay greater attention to alleviating the energy poverty of many households. And we propose that Visesa devote the promotion of public housing entirely to rented housing. It is obvious that improving the effectiveness and efficiency of social services also means improving monitoring and control mechanisms, so that the implementation of aid is ensured and its benefits are those who really need it. Of course, the guard cannot be lowered in front of the pandemic in health care. We insist on the strengthening of primary care and the acquisition of health equipment, creating the reserves that are deemed necessary. At any time, we are seeing it again these days unfortunately, we can again head up statistics on the incidence of COVID-19 that we do not wish to head up. For this reason, we propose specific items that will allow the reform of training and health research, and have funds for the recruitment, and very important, of staff to the service of Osakidetza. Sixthly, we have proposed the creation of a special fund for the renaissance of trade and industry, with EUR 650 million. It would be a fund from the accumulated remnants of previous years, as I said before, and to be executed in three years, i.e. in the years 2022, 23 and 24. In this way, a first effect would be achieved: to provide a stability framework that is projected throughout the legislature, in circumstances that are and will continue to be of considerable uncertainty. We believe it is an inescapable need following the impact of the pandemic. The objective of the fund is clear: to help overcome the present situation and better address future uncertainties; to improve our overall position. This would be addressed by both trades and industries affected by the crisis, with one key feature: whether they are viable projects. The fund would enable those accessing it to overcome some short-term difficulties, such as payroll or payment to suppliers, to make new investments and gain size, or to address opportunities for expansion and internationalization with greater guarantees. And finally, seventh axis, a bet decided by training and education. The allocation would be EUR 200 million, to be implemented also in three consecutive years. It would be sufficient for them to come up with some of the remnants that exist in some of the public bodies and societies, in some cases, I insist, recognized and quantified expressly at parliamentary level. The first objective would be to make progress on convergence with Europe in R & D & I spending, strengthening training and research spending, logically. A second objective would be to strengthen the education system, from early childhood education to university. We propose the promotion of free education in children and in the 0-3 years cycle, speed up the process of modernization and digitization of public and concerted networks in non-university education, also updating educational concerts, and reforming the Basque university system. And the third objective would be to improve the training of staff in the service of public administrations. To this end, it should focus both on training and on incentives for specialisation. They are, you see, seven axes for reworking public accounts that are too continuous, routine, conformist, lehendakari, from our point of view. Neither Mr Azpiazu nor the Government as a whole can behave as mere administrators. Its obligation is to put the budget and all public resources at the service of the citizens, of recovery and also, logically, of employment on our land. And that is not achieved, ladies and gentlemen, by doing what is always and as always. We believe that our proposal is, without a doubt,... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... of employment in our land. And that is not achieved, ladies and gentlemen, by doing what is always and as always. We believe that our proposal is certainly better oriented than your project or whatever may result from the deal with Bildu. More focused on people, on the needs of families or self-employed, more aware of the needs of everyday life in Euskadi. And that's why we made that proposal. We believe that our priorities are also clearer than their covenants, more or less express, more or less opaque, more or less mimetic with those they reach elsewhere. But, above all, ours is a proposal closer to the way in which those who are getting out of the crisis more quickly, those who lead their communities and put all their knowledge at the service of a better future for all. They did not want to seriously address a negotiation to make budgets a useful tool for recovery and for building that future. But we believe that it is our duty to continue to defend an alternative that puts all Basques, that puts all Basques and to overcome the difficult moment that we are living, in the foreground in our political life and in our social life on this earth. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we, from the People's Party and Citizens' Group, are calling for the return of the Budget Bill to the Government by 2022 and we are also calling for the House's support for its reworking in line with the lines that I have just defended in this rostrum. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. We'll go in reverse shift. Basque Socialists and Eucabertarians will be involved. So, Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iturgaiz, the Basque People's-Citizens Group, like Vox, has not presented or asked for a single written clarification of the budgets. And now you can understand both your amendment and your speech. Because you have managed to convey that you were clear from before the government presented your budgets that this was not going to your group, that you were to something else, that the budgets of the Madrid Community are better read than those of the Basques, although here you represent the Basque citizens who vote for you and not Ayuso. They have today advocated an amendment of all structured in a different way from those tabled in previous years, but with the same content. And as a novelty in these budgets for 2022 is the negotiation process, in which this time there has been no declared self-exclusion, but effective self-exclusion at the time when they presented their proposal, because they knew beforehand the impossibility with those limbs of committing with serious faces a rigorous negotiation. And they are tangled with inefficiencies when they know or should know that Euskadi is one of the autonomous communities with the highest budget execution in Spain, with 97.3% spending disposition in 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, and with 96.3% in recognised obligations. And with data for November, we are in 89% of the budget implemented. And they justify their decision by not criticizing the Economic Concert, an instrument of self-government so important and unique, saying that it prioritizes the collection before the service to the citizenry, when the Economic Concert, in addition to vertebrating through a pact the tax and financial relations between the State and the Basque Country, allows the financing of the Basque institutions and, therefore, allows the services to the citizenry. Now they no longer regard these budgets as false or false. Now they say the predictions are out of date and they think they've discovered the gunpowder. I should have been careful. Because Councillor Azpiazu has said that the macroeconomic picture has been reconsidered. That he hasn't been paying attention, and that's why he says it's out of date. Here's something new for you and point it out. They have been entangled, as has been the case for years, with a tax hike, which contradicts the complaint of other groups because the tax debate that we have committed has not yet been addressed. You speak of budget failure and criticise that expenditure at the full hands of the Government. They talk about the need to regain employment without remembering that we have regained it vigorously and without recognizing... I do not say to your taboo, the government of Pedro Sánchez, nor to the workers, but they do not even recognize the enormous effort of the companies to agree on the measures that have allowed a recovery of economic activity and employment faster than originally envisaged. And they come back with the canteen that budgets have the same last three years. No, no, Mr Iturgaiz, the ballast is what you carry since you left the Government of Spain with a position set in advance and based on the same mantras. I am talking about Basque delegations abroad, which are important instruments for the implementation of the Framework Strategy for Internationalization, a strategy that serves the revival of our economy and the generation of employment and the triple transition that needs to be addressed by advising Basque economic actors in their process of internationalization. As for family policies, then (...?) You, your performance is a subjective right. And the budget has been reoriented to address the new challenges with specific programmes for children and adolescents, with new developments in the conciliation aid lines for leave and reduction of working hours, for the care of persons with dependency or in situations of extreme health severity, or the conciliation aid for the recruitment of workers for the care of children under 14 years of age. Other planned family support elements that increase the budget include the decentralization of the family mediation service, the extension of the single-parent family support programme, the equalization of permits in single-parent cohabitation units. As far as health is concerned, you know that it has the largest budget in all the departments of the Basque Government. And it involves a per capita health expenditure of €1,984 by 2022. These are 101 euros per person compared to the same year 2021. And that money is to strengthen the Basque Health System, primary care, public health, social health care and health innovation and research. And in the field of transport. You know or should know that the Basque Government has relied on the interoperability of existing travel documents in Euskadi on all means of public transport regardless of historical territory. And with regard to Lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao Metro... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... on all means of public transport regardless of the historical territory. With regard to Lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao Metro, as it is planned to tender for the construction project in year 22, ETS has a specific investment heading for this purpose. The constructive civil works projects on line 5 are ready for tender, pending confirmation of European funds for their immediate start. I would have known that if I had asked the government, but I am already answering it. Anyway. On the TAV, we spoke last Thursday in this Parliament and were approved and clearly established what the commitments are, because the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups was approved. And with regard to the aid to industry and trade and to that fund that you propose, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has already established a programme of aid to boost entrepreneurship, innovation, actions to activate the urban economy, a programme to revive sustainable markets and urban commercial areas. Moreover, it seems to us a mistake that you make when you present this fund for trade and industry exclusively, because you forget about the rest of the productive sectors of the Basque economy, such as tourism and hospitality, which have also suffered very important falls in activity and for which many millions of euros have been allocated so that they could undertake this maintenance of employment and activity in a phase of resistance. And with that fund that you propose, where do those sectors of hospitality and commerce remain for the People's and Citizens' Party? Doesn't it matter now? For the People's Party, have these sectors already recovered from the crisis and only trade and industry are important economic sectors in the Basque Country? For the Basque Socialists and for the Basque Government, these budgets provide for the recovery of trade, industry, tourism and hospitality, sectors which have been affected by the crisis and which, at this stage of resistance, have received EUR 126 million to maintain economic activity and employment. And by 2022 there is an expected economic spending capacity of more than EUR 52 million in the department, counting also important, counting on the European funds that will allow a spending capacity of EUR 79.3 million. 46 % of the expenditure capacity is earmarked for investments. The strength of these budgets. And a phase, therefore, of reactivation and relaunching of the productive sectors in terms of public investment. And they dare to say that the crisis resulting from COVID-19 has not helped the Government to improve its effectiveness, efficiency and enforcement capacity. And to say that, Mr Iturgaiz, in addition to false, is to turn your back on the reality of what happened, because how and where the People's Party-Citizens who came out of the funds to deal with the COVID-19 to attend to sectors such as that trade, tourism and hospitality in their phase of resistance. Where did the additional support from the ERTEs in Euskadi come from and how did they become effective? Where did they come from and how were credit lines applied to SMEs and self-employed people? Where did they come from and how were the programmes for our industrial fabric implemented? Where did they come from and how were resources applied to education and health in the pandemic? In what parallel reality have you and you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party-Citizens in Euskadi been living? These budgets are consistent with the content of the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan in Euskadi 2030, with the Euskadi Basque Country Internationalisation Framework Strategy 2025, with the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, with the Strategic Employment Plan 2021-2024, with the Strategic Energy Transition and Climate Change Plan 2021-2024, with the Strategic Circular Economy and Bioeconomy Plan VII, with the Equality of Women and Men Plan VII, with the Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan 2021-2024, with the Euskadi 2030 Energy Strategy, with the Strategy against Climate Change 2050, with the Basque Country 4.0, with the Strategy for Digital Transformation of Euskadi 2050 and with the Euskadi Next programme, European funds. And a few weeks ago in Parliament we approved the Industrial Development and Internationalisation Plan, which envisages a budget of 1,642 million euros for the period 2024, forgiveness, 2021-2024, a total, an expenditure capacity of 4,102 million. The canteen of the dimensioning of the public sector, of the increase of the current expenditure, of the staff of free designation, etc., etc., that year after year is already repeated. And that means setting traps in solitary, Mr Iturgaiz, when the draft law of the Basque public sector is in process, which establishes, among other things, the principles and rules common to this dimensioning and transformation of the public sector. The establishment of an inter-agency commission for the rationalization and sizing of the public sector is being proposed, which will study and make proposals to address these potential inefficiencies, overlaps or duplications between public sectors. And they cheat in solitary with regard to the staff of free appointment and the retribution of the high offices, when in autonomous communities governed by the People's Party they do the opposite of what they are saying here, and you apply, wonderfully, that saying of "advices sell, but for me I don't have." And they cheat, too, saying that current spending increases, when it's not true. Current expenditure in these budgets for 2022, in Chapter 2, is up from that in the 2021 budget by 0.5%, and by 1.4% in the current transfers chapter. They are increases of 19 million euros and 53 million euros in chapter 2 and 4 compared to this year 2021, in budgets of 13,108 million euros. Is that the government's tremendous misconception, with this approach of increasing current spending? Really? Are you guys serious? And already to suggest that the People's Party's alternative is that the budget for 2022 must be geared towards the recovery of employment, the exit from the crisis, ensuring well-being and facing the future as a society in a better position, and that all that is achieved with those wonderful, that miracle of the remaining 1 billion euros. Well, that seems to me, let me just say, a little bit of hair. What does the People's Party-Citizens believe that the 13,108 million euros of these budgets for 2022 are geared towards, but rather to the economic revival of Euskadi. What does the People's Party-Citizens believe is the main thrust of these budgets, the increase of the budget in public policies, the more than 1.6 billion euros of public investment, the firm commitment in R & D – 588 million–, the eight out of ten euros allocated to social expenditure, the maintenance of the covid program 100% in health and education, and the unequivocal bet of... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... the eight out of ten euros earmarked for social expenditure, the maintenance of the programme covers 100% in health and education, and the unequivocal commitment of the gender perspective in these budgets. What does the People's Party-Citizens think these budgets are for 2022, but to enforce the government agreement between Basque Socialists and Basque Nationalists, whose aim is to ensure the health of citizens, economic recovery and employment without leaving anyone behind? And as a novelty, they are now speaking to us from the People's Party of Energy Poverty Citizens. Look, look, the economy, sorry, look at the hemerotheque, look at the session log. November 2014; and if anything, in a repeated vote in December. Look at the roles and how they denied the greatest, that there was energy poverty, that with Rajoy everything was fine. Look at the hemerotheque, because despite that and despite the fact that on that day the Socialists did not manage to get a GNP forward, in the following weeks we did something much more important, to introduce for the first time in the budgets an item to meet those who could not cover their energy bills. And we did it because the Basque Socialists have known and know how to negotiate, face-to-face and honestly. And since then, that coverage has existed in the Euskadi budgets. And you tell us about promoting home rental. And they tell us about that to the Basque Socialists when they refused in the round, by land, sea and air from the Spanish government to the Basque Housing Act, and even resorted to it. And when today, by law, because this is what the legal system says, all the money that is used in the construction of housing is for rented housing. But what are you guys making up? But what are they telling us, really? And they tell us about reforming Lanbide, as if there was no plan in progress agreed by the social partners at the social dialogue table, as if we did not have today about twenty new programmes from the Department of Labour and Employment, precisely, to move forward on that path. And they are pilot programmes, yes, as much as Mrs Garrido, in the explanations given by the Vice-Lehendakari in the Commission, has underestimated them. Yes, look at what the leading experts at the Employment Congress held last month in Vitoria said, and what the European Commissioner said is that new, different programmes must be promoted, tested and corrected in order to improve. And finally, the issue of European funds. Look, in June of this same year ten highlights and one notable. That is the note that you have taken from the Spanish Recovery Plan in Brussels, the same plan that you have criticized without truce People's Party and Citizens; and for which you are going to receive funds that, according to Pablo Casado and Inés Arrimadas, were constantly in danger, and that you in Euskadi repeat, ignoring what Europe has said. Funds that will have parliamentary control, with budgetary articulation and with specific objectives for Euskadi. December 3, 2021, Ursula von der Leyen: "Good news for Spain," said his tweet. Spain has made enough progress in implementing its Next GenerationEU National Plan, so it will be the first country in the European Union to receive a payment of 10 billion euros." What is good for Spain is good for Euskadi, and what is good for Euskadi is good for Spain. And that is why we are going to vote against your amendment as a whole, so that these vital budgets for the economic recovery of Euskadi will not be returned. The Socialists, Mr Iturgaiz, we are in a government and we are in this Parliament not to collect a salary, we are to influence politics, to be useful to society; not like the People's Party-Citizens, who live comfortably, alien to the problems of citizenship, without giving them a single solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Thank you, Mr. Subauzu chief, for all your explanations and especially for the effort and effort you've all made to present these budgets. These are the second budgets of this legislation that have started from the difficult context of 2020 years. 13.108 million euros, and, compared to 2021, 888 million euros more, at 78.6. And I don't care whether they are here to-day the sterile comparisons to which they are to be compared; in objective comparison, this is the data. And even more, a difference in the budget this year: 1,600 million for investment, 50 percent ascent. By taking advantage of Europe's suspension of the attorney rule, this government has made a bet on this special holiday unit. I don't know how you can say, Mr. Iturgaz, that these budgets are retrospects or conservatives in investment this year. And beyond the count, in the nature of the budget. They protect our welfare system, strengthen our education, guarantee our health, in order to face the situation where we are, in order to ensure social policies that they don't leave anyone behind, and to re-initialize the economy in the investment. So these budgets have also an important message, a bet to the Basques, an advance budget, making resources, all of us changing from this difficult situation. And so, I'm glad to see the value of these budgets EH Collectors when we're surrounded by the most important funds in the past Basque times, especially when we're surrounded by the difficult situation we're in. It is a pity to see Podemos, PP, and Vox, in the presence of this state of things, contradicting this law, and assigning to it the whole corrections. Political maturity and commitment to the socio-economic moment required your responsibility, Mr Iturgaiz, but they have again wasted the opportunity. From here we would like to applaud the efforts of the Basque Government and also EH Bildu in this negotiation; efforts with positive results. But, Mr Iturgaiz, your predisposition, and today has been confirmed again, has been null and void, and your amendment away from realism and the required seriousness. Since the first meeting they have marked their red line, and that is not indicative of the will to agree, rather the opposite. It was the runway for what came next... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... since the first meeting marked their red line, and that is not indicative of the will to agree, rather the opposite. It was the landing strip for what came next, the receipt of a fat brush working paper. An abstract, generalist, ideological proposal that made an approach impossible. They weren't chasing him, but at least, well, they didn't waste much time on the negotiating team. That must be thanked because the first ones on the table got up. It seems that they continue to weigh what happened three and a half years ago in Madrid, because since then, Mr Iturgaiz, they have remained in a frantist position in this Parliament. And we really regret it, we regret that they did not want to work on rigorous, realistic and committed accounts with the urgency and challenges of this country. They have not stopped to think about the benefit it would bring to society as a whole. They continue with their calculations and their particular interests. Your attitude to face the negotiation of the ancients wasn't the proper thing to do. I do not believe that your will has been to agree, but to remain purely dialectic, as has been proved after events. The proposal you introduced to the government was not to negotiate. I'd say the opposite was a cut. On the side with a strong and compactist. And if you want me to be honest, I'm worried about this program of the Popula team that's getting normal, right? It may be a pattern in other places, but we don't want it here for Basques. If you want to influence this town, I suggest you turn around 180 degrees, because this hard, complicated moment we're living requires responsibility. Focusing on your amendment in detail, they say that there are clearly outdated forecasts. Falsely, the predictions are reasonable, they are made from prudence and the figures are well fitted. No problem, Mr Iturgaiz, and in recent years it has been, it has not been given, it has not been given over budgeting more or less I would swear, I have looked back since 2016 and for this 2022 neither. And I'm going to offer you two data. The proposed increase is 4.6% on the closing forecast of 2021, 4.6, which is below the forecast of the nominal GDP increase by 2022 that was used at the time of the forecast, which was 7.9, and which, moreover, as we have heard only a few, seems to be, to the adviser this morning, expected to be 9.3%. That's the first data. Secondly, the evolution of the collection, which the last data is to October 2021, 15,5 % increase compared to 2020, which is higher than the settlement forecast target set by the Basque Finance Council in October, by 11.7%. Two clear facts that make your false arguments fall. That is, trusting the current forecasts does not mean that the department is not paying attention to what is happening in our environment, as the counselor has shown us today. It has presented a new macroeconomic scenario with a downward revision of real and nominal GDP figures by 2021 and a upward revision by 2022. But that is not going to have any negative effect on these budgets. The revenue will cover the expenditure and can be spent without further difficulty, because as I said earlier, what marks these revenue is nominal GDP, as I hope you know, Mr Iturgaiz. Second argument, where they have already taken out all the artillery and where they already find their comfort zone, where they are already growing in our agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu. We are accused of blocking them, imposing the nationalist creed, advancing independence, promoting linguistic investment. Look, I'm going to try to clarify certain issues that I shouldn't remind you today for their obviousness and for our party's journey in its more than 125 years of history. We are a Basque, democratic, abertzale, plural and modern party. And yes, Mr Iturgaiz, you do not discover anything new, and as Basque nationalists we will work to articulate the Basque territories politically. We are humanists, open to progress and to all the advance movements of civilization that serve the benefit of the human being. Eta euskara, it's our sign of identity. Euskera is the basis of our idiosyncrasy and way of seeing life. Only an Administration that goes along the path of bilingualism with society will be able to offer an advanced and quality service, and on this path, Mr Iturgaiz, and with these values you will find us. And secondly, that neither the Basque Nationalist Party nor this government nor, if I may say so, the Socialist Party, when it deals with Bildu, radicalizes its values or bildunizes itself. The only evidence of this agreement is the ability of this Government and the lehendakari to reach agreements. In recent years the Basque Government has agreed on budgets with its group, with the People's Party. Also with Podemos and now with Bildu. And that's exactly what shows, that, our ability to make alliances with different people. I don't think that you two have been bibbled when you were negotiating with Bildu, and you were also valuing municipal agreements. Do you remember what Mr. Maroto said when he was mayor of Gasteiz? I'll remind you: "My legs don't shake for reaching agreements with anyone and I think it's good, I wish it happened in more forums, I wish I could set an example. There is no inconvenience to the agreement, because the agreement is good." Damn hemerotheque, huh?, you'll be saying, it was in January 2013, it's December 21. Could you explain to me, Mr Iturgaiz, what depends on whether the pact with Bildu is good or not?, of the need of the moment?, of the interlocutor?, of whether you are in the game? Make it clear that for us both are on the game board, they are on the system. We do not accept vetoes or disqualifications. We believe in politics as a value for transforming society and society is transformed by agreements. And that's where this government is located. We have a lehendakari and a government that is not in the win, you lose, but they are in the concord, in forging common spaces for a people, for the Basque people to advance with shared values. Continuing with your amendment, what you call Plan B and what I call prudence, seriousness and rigour in the management of public resources, European funds. They criticise the lack of parliamentary control over European funds and their opacity. You are well aware that funds linked to Next Generation cannot finance actions already contemplated in the regular budget or current expenditure, additionality criterion, and that is what you have done. It is also, unless you tell me that you can quantify the amount of MRR funds that Euskadi will receive and for which projects it is not possible to consider a heading at this time. The other way around would be reckless. Therefore, if there is an opacity it will be of origin, but not attributable to this government, which, in addition, in an exercise of transparency has been self-imposed to appear quarterly before this Parliament in order to report on the developments around the European funds. As you see, they're not serious arguments, we don't see solid proposals, we don't even see what their... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... of developments around European funds. As you can see, these are not serious arguments. We see no solid proposals. We don't even know what his alternative is. Because, if you have it, you have not taught it to us, because today I am sure that, if you wanted it, this budget would contain areas in which you could have felt represented, certainly not being your proposal. Its proposal is based on a tax proposal. Lower taxes, reduce current spending, by the way, weak favor Osakidetza, because without this Osakidetza budget is current spending, use the remaining excessive cash flow as a result of inexecutions. Implementation, as Mrs Corcuera pointed out, was 98% last year and 89% in investments. That is so, and without blushing and with complete frankness, without prejudice to our being clear, and so the Councillor put forward, the challenge of budgetary implementation. Also create a fund for SMEs and families, and eliminate games for EITB and Basque. I believe that this is a good summary of your proposal, which the President of the Madrid community would certainly buy, but that we are definitely not, Mr Iturgaiz, because less taxation is a deterioration of public services. It's less benefits and less well-being. Our model seeks to strengthen the public, ensure equal opportunities and build a society of solidarity and justice. And, to that end, an equitable, progressive and sufficient tax system. A financing that is achieved thanks to our self-government and the Economic Concert, a system of solidarity, of unilateral risk that requires a lot of responsibility in the management of public resources. And a tax system so defined, equitable, progressive and sufficient, supports this budget, guaranteeing and strengthening the public health, education, social protection and investment system. (...) to encourage a few to put everything else at risk. Not us. And that is why we do not share with you your motto of low taxes (...) Economy. In fact, a recent report by the London School of Economics and Political Science concludes that the economic arguments for keeping high income taxes low are weak, increasing income inequality, with all the problems involved, and without compensating for economic results. And that's why we think there's another way to attract talent and investment, not by lowering taxes. Other policies, which have been implementing this Government for years, combining tax economic attractiveness, promoting internationalization, supporting industry, SMEs and the entire productive fabric, in order to retain and attract added value. Policies that translate into figures in this budget: €777 million for the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and Environment, which is growing to 18.8%, to accelerate employment-generating economic recovery, taking on the digital climate energy transformation, social and health as an opportunity to strengthen competitiveness. To this end, this budget is based on four broad lines of action which are being worked on in a cross-cutting way. The first, aid plan for SMEs 2022, with EUR 579 million, with a 32% growth for industrial development, entrepreneurship, energy transformation, food industry, the circular economy, aid for the first sector. Second line of action, the investment plan and actions for the energy and climate transition, EUR 304 million. Third, strategic projects aligned with digital, energy-climate and socio-health transformations. And there, for example, 126 million for technology park networks, 21 million for strategic project management, 19.5 million for investment support Lehiatu Berria. And, fourth, actions in municipalities and regions, and special care for disadvantaged areas, up to 180 million euros, plus another 20 of the Indartu industrial programme, to help industry in disadvantaged areas and municipalities with higher unemployment rates. And all this accompanied by a firm commitment in R & D, with 588 million, an increase of 10% and 12 for the future. Innovation that is also driven by health and education. Examples are recent, €4.2 million for FP Concerted Centres, which participate in the Intelligent Organizations 4.0 project. Or 3.9 of the three Basque universities to finance programs Digitization, Health and Universities plus Education. They are all necessary investments to reach a point-to-point bet in Euskadi, in Euskadi and in the world, from an energy and climate point of view. They're huge. And we will only achieve it with a leading industrial policy in technology, innovation and digitisation, aspects that this budget continues to take care of intensively and prioritized, in line with what has been achieved in recent years, and that frame it with the new Industrial Development and Internationalization Plan 2124. A plan that is born with the will to place Euskadi in the place where we want to be, a country where wealth is generated from knowledge and know-how. A country that retains talent, where as an example Bilbao is placed in fourth place worldwide in the ranking developed by the prestigious International Business School INSEAD. And also the recognition of the Financial Times magazine, which places Euskadi as an example of a small country in Europe that has been able to reinvent itself through innovation. And so it indicates, when we talk about regeneration, it is worth looking at that old industrial territory. And the elements to explain success are vision, objectives, self-government, work for the common good, Auzolan, and public-private collaboration. A formula of success for what we will have to continue to work for and for what this budget offers a great bet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing round to answer, the representative of the popular-Chaulous team, Mr. Iturbá, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. My neighbor and friend, Mrs. Corcuera, has taken the machine gun from several subjects. And then, I'm gonna go try and answer some of them. I of course do, Mrs. Corcuera, allow me to point it out. I've got my feet on the floor. And I listen; I walk and listen to self-employed, merchants, hoteliers, industrialists, etc., etc. And don't get upset. Hotels, traders, tourism, the self-employed are our references every day, Mrs Corcuera, also in our amendments. And it is you, it is you who have disappointed all the expectations, absolutely all the expectations of many of these sectors that I am quoting right now. Look, what an obsession you have with us asking. But anyway, you haven't found out or you're not aware or you're not aware of the questions we're asking in my neighborhood... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...you have to ask us. But anyway, you haven't found out, or you're not aware, or you're not alert in my neighborhood to the questions we're asking. Look, look, if I... we've asked a lot of questions to the councilman, Mr. Azpiazu, throughout the legislature. I myself to the lehendakari in full control over the issues you were telling me. If it is that Mrs Laura Garrido, because on the issue of the remnants that you have taken out earlier and we were talking about the Lanbide theme that you know, by the way, the socialists very well, in the Lanbide treasury you, on the question of Mrs Laura Garrido of December 13, tell us that the remaining Lanbide treasury on December 31, 2020... the remaining is 272 million euros with a peak. And Lanbide's remaining treasury at December 31, 2019 was 236 million. Well, that's what you answer. We didn't make it up. If there's a remnant. But you want to hide that there are these issues. We have asked many questions, as I said, to the institutions. And we have warned many times too, Mrs Corcuera, many times that the macroeconomic picture was out of date. Then comes this news: "The Basque economy is getting cold, forcing the government to lower its forecast." As you see and as you have read, it is said "hidden tax hike." Of course, and when this is said by the media and we say it from the opposition, you certainly attack those we come here to bring, to bring the truth, truths like fists. Undoubtedly, in any case, Mrs Corcuera, I agree with the criticism you have made.... There is one thing I agree with Mr Azpiazu: the criticism made by the Basque Government, Mr Azpiazu, to Mr Sánchez on the issue of funds... the management of European funds. You'll remember. That's what's left of it, too. And I have told you and you did not want to hear, this government is unable to execute the investments. In recent years, I have told you before, I repeat it again, it has not reached 50% in some cases, 50%. And you who speak, I insist, again of so many remnants and so many approaches... Look, if these budgets, Mrs Corcuera, are as good as you are saying, well, because lower taxes, lower taxes, as I have started to say. Because in the end, if you don't lower taxes, it's the citizen, the families. We are making a plus, a plus of fundamental imbalance to the families of our land. And tax can be lowered, Mrs Corcuera, as you have seen in the Community of Madrid, since you have mentioned it on several occasions, tax can be lowered, without a doubt, and not lose expenditure and management if good management is done, as is happening in the Community of Madrid. No, don't do that, because even the entrepreneurs themselves, the Basque entrepreneurs are the ones who are saying that they would love to have a help in the Basque Autonomous Community. That's right. That's right. In 2014 the increase in energy prices, Mrs Corcuera, do you remember?, ruled the People's Party, since it has quoted it to Mariano Rajoy, in 2014 the increase in energy prices was 5%. Do you remember your leader or your president, who is also my president, that of Spain, who is Mr Sánchez, how he asked for Mr Rajoy's resignation for the 5% increase. Today we beat records every day, with prices that triple that of a year ago, that of a year ago, Mrs. Corcuera. That does create energy poverty for all families, logically. And that is what you, the Socialists, are bringing to this country as well. And they don't recognize, they don't recognize that their energy policy is in debt, impoverishing the families of this country. Mrs. Berrojalbiz, I don't know if... I respect you very much, without any logical acrid, but I don't know if you were at your party assembly recently. He says yes to me. I don't know if that's where he found out. Because you've put me... He's got me.), he has told me many epithets, history, the curriculum vitae, which I do not doubt, moreover I congratulate him, of his party. He's said everything about the PNV. But he's missed saying a few more things. That you, as you said you were in that assembly, heard that now the PNV is green, left-wing and in favor of the right of self-determination. That's how you said it yesterday. I mean, now you guys have tuned in. I told him the other day, now they are the political watermelon, that is, green on the outside, red on the inside, in favor of that right of self-determination. But in your history, in your curriculum vitae of the Basque Nationalist Party there are also things that you have not remembered. That you've passed away... I've experienced that in the European Chamber, they've gone from being Christian Democrats... By the way, they were thrown into the Assembly of Santiago de Chile. They passed... Yeah, yeah. Well, you say... That's sweet. To say we're gone. The chopping of the (...?)). We're gone. We're leaving. Of course, they kicked them out. They kicked them out. Then they became green. Green. I saw them sitting with the greens in the European Parliament. Then they were very uncomfortable. And then they went to the liberals, there with some political parties that we could comment on. He says... But now, well, I don't know, they're gonna want to be green again, because they're telling us again that they're green and left. With the Lords of Podemos you can go to Europe to that left where the leaders of Podemos are sitting in the seats of Brussels and Strasbourg. Mrs. Bergeralbbiz, I'd like you to notice something else, and I think it's obvious. In all the organizations, when the government represents the budgets, it's not just accounts, numbers, projects, games, etc. Always, behind the budget, the government is a strategy. There's a strategy policy, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. And here, Euskadin, it's not an exception, it's not. Pick up, gather up, when Navarre comes to an agreement with the Socialists' government and you really think, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, the Basque... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... when it comes to an agreement, with the government of socialists and of you, do you really think, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, that the only aim of collecting is to see the cartoons in ETB3? Well, Bob Belachia to see Bob Espanja? Eh? Navarroan? Is that their goal in Navarro? And that's why they're happy? Well, that budget, don't think about it. No way. There's a strategy policy behind it, and we'll definitely see it. And this, in Madrid, with Sánchez, in Congress, when it comes to an agreement with the budgets, is the only way to get a few small games out of here, just to collect them, to do something like that? No doubt that's why we'll see this policy here in the Euskatadian drawing-room. We certainly have time to know and to know. But, no doubt, I tell you, we shall see something in education and language, and also in the new state. And there's time. We'll see what happens to the future, huh? There's time. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Passing the answers, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u19	Yes, thank you, President. Let's see, Mr Iturgaiz, not to repeat, year after year, the same arguments and the same matters as a mantra have one reason or more. You have played this time to make the only political decision in strategy you could make. And it was the "no" to the budgets, because they were neither in the Government of Spain nor left it to Pablo Casado, so they had no other. What have they done? Well, to say that they did not have the pre-established "no", that they had to stage that decision with something more modest than in the 2021 budgets, and they pretended to be interested in a negotiation and to justify with the same arguments as always and with absolutely impossible proposals budgets that had the content they had, they already had their rejection in advance. And I don't want to be misunderstanding, but this about you criticizing the Economic Concert saying that it doesn't serve the citizenry, seems very dangerous to me. It seems very dangerous to me, and it is also against what you were saying from the People's Party; it is also because you have an alliance that now forces you to raise these uncertainties and doubts. Let's see. I told him I wasn't paying attention, because the counselor said the macroeconomic picture was changing; he said it today. And he didn't write it down. And of course, as he has not noted, he has not been able to say, and has returned to: "These budgets are based on a macroeconomic picture that does not respond to forecasts...". That the counselor told her, that I didn't tell her. But of course, that's what happens, isn't it? You said, "These budgets are continuous and routine accounts." Of course, because there are strategic lines that are already designed. Because there is a government agreement, and because there is a government programme, it goes along with those strategic lines that were raised by all the advisers. And, these budgets, what they do is they endorse those strategic lines. How do they do it? On this occasion, establishing an expansive budget of 13,108 million, based primarily on the investment for the economic revival of Euskadi. That simple, huh? That simple. But of course, we don't want to understand why we don't want to understand. I was telling you, that fund you raise is a fund exclusively for industry and trade. It is that the Basque productive sector, the Basque productive and economic fabric, is wider than trade and industry. You cannot rely solely on two economic elements in Euskadi. That's what I'm putting in his face. And don't come to me with these stories that: "No, no. You haven't done anything. They are, have, come on, trade, tourism and hospitality in front of you, don't throw..." Hey, a phase of pulse resistance, huh? The pulse. Realism, huh? 126 million euros, huh? EUR 126 million, which is said to be easy. Not so much to come here to the rostrum, to throw four little things into the air, four propositions, and to remain as saying quietly. No, no, no. Here we have to come up with proposals. And here you have to tie your shoulder, Mr. Iturgaiz. And these budgets were also to tie the shoulder, because the People's Party would have felt comfortable in these budgets. But external issues have come to what is Euskadi, and you have no choice but to say no. And for that they had to invent the justifications. But, let's see, we have agreed on issues of tax reform. But how come you now tell me that it's absolutely impossible? It's not impossible, it's just that you don't want to. And they've missed a chance. And they had, they can say quite clearly, that there is no height of sight in the People's Party-Citizens, because saying "no" to these budgets is saying "no" to the exit of the crisis from our economic fabric. That is "no" to the necessary social cohesion in the Basque Country. That is, "no" at the end of the health, economic and social crisis that we require. That is, "no" to have transformative processes in the challenges of the future that we face here. And that, that, you have decided; we have not decided by others for you. They've decided... No, no, don't do that to me, that those are very partners of yours when many times amendments are adopted here. That we're used to laughing, aren't we? What partners do we have?... No, it's just that as you're pointing out there... What I want to say to you, Mr Iturgaiz, is that today you have lost one more opportunity to have a high eye, to hold your shoulder. They didn't, and they didn't want to. We, the Basque Socialists, are proud of this government and of the parties that support it, because they have made possible and real a country commitment, achieving broad consensus to advance that transformative vocation in social dialogue and political dialogue in this Parliament. We will therefore reject, we will vote "no" to your amendment as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours. [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Madame Bergeralbuz is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u22	Eskerrik asko legebiltzarburu andrea, Mr Iturgaiz, our value is predictability, we are predictable and we are adapting. We are attached to Basque society, which is to whom we owe and we are adapting. We're not sails, as you are. In fact, those who always try or rely on labels are because they don't have a project, because they don't have content, they always try to label themselves and we don't. And I'm not at least going to label this game because it's people that matter to us. And besides with his speech, well, and with a mix of all the speeches, (?) I feel like I'm a radical Bolshevik, next to Podemos, a neoliberal but black-legged one. But what we are, and what people think, is that we are the solution to their problems. That's the Basque Nationalist Party without labelling. For the new march, and I'm going to focus a little bit on more budgetary issues, which is what we are today, for (?) and for the good running of the industry and to generate an attractive ecosystem you must also be there. There are many factors, one, the politician, which we are saying, others, productivity, the cost of raw materials, the government's public policies, taxation, infrastructure such as VAD, and of course social policies. Its weight in this budget is 77 %, a very powerful percentage that tells us about social justice, cohesion and solidarity. And as I said to you, one element that is in your hand, with which you can contribute to generating an attractive ecosystem, without labels, without political distinctions, but to unite, is to bring political stability, Mr Iturgaiz. (?) a people that builds and collaborates. I assure you that Basque society values this attitude more than the opposite and the confrontation to which we are recently accustomed and rowing in the same direction and from the logical discrepancy, which wins it is Euskadi. It is time to build consensus for Euskadi stronger, more competitive, more digital, greener and more inclusive. And here, if you want you can qualify me and label me wherever you want. The objective of the country we have is ambitious: to place Euskadi among the most advanced European regions in 2030. Our starting position is promising. I would remind you that in July the European Commission published the report with the classifications of Regional Innovation and Euskadi is among the European regions of high innovation calling us a people of regional excellence. And that is the way forward and so we will continue, promoting competitiveness, talent, entrepreneurship, R & D and helping SMEs, investing in the future, in the future of this society. And to a large extent, that investment is possible by the remnant that you both criticize, so you think you have qualified as (?), and there is the first question, the data, the remaining one is not EUR 1 billion, is 745 with the last available data of execution. And second, the remnant is not a consequence of the inexecutions, Mr Iturgaiz, it is the Treasury that is deemed necessary to deal with any contingency, as happened in 2020 with the pandemic. The remnant made it possible to deal with the health and economic crisis, allocating nothing more and nothing less than EUR 1.5 billion. I would say that it is a symptom of the good management of resources, good management, credibility and seriousness, which accounts and society endorse. A clear policy that prioritizes the social, that prioritizes people. As a result, 33 % of the budget is allocated to health and 25 % to education. The demographic challenge, the educational model and the families that you also quote, I will remain with the great challenge that all institutions have in their hands. Demographics, Basque society needs to rejuvenate, adapt to the most diverse composition, migration, increase life expectancy and manage the cycle of such a broad generational relief in the demographic pyramid. And there are the new demographic challenges in the Youth Directorate, measures to improve birth rates. More data on support for families that you understand in your criticism are linked to support for families in a very particular definition that is envisaged in the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, which adds nothing more and nothing less than 74 million, and in any case also to certain scholarships from the Department of Education, items that are at least 58 million, nothing more and nothing less. And so on and so on, but I will tell you that there is more, because you are obviating the existence of another series of items with a direct impact on families, such as the GIR and the supplementary housing benefit, which add up to EUR 450 million, rental housing grants, EUR 8 million, the provision of 5 million economic benefits linked to the subjective housing right or those earmarked for the fifth family support plan. As Mr Iturgaiz sees his intervention is purely dialectic justifying his negative and unconstructive position when what they really think is, and so Mr Barrio said in a motion on June 10th, that Basque budgets strengthen public services, literally. And that's all right with you, but it'd be nice if you came here, digested by your contradiction. And finally, our big difference. You do not like ETB, the Basque euskera or the international delegations of the Basque Government, and here we will never meet, Mr Iturgaiz. The reduction and rethinking of the Basque language, look at your partial amendments and certain entities that you propose, go against our raison d'être. The delegations of the Basque Government have a clear objective in the internationalisation and external action of Euskadi within the strategy, as you know, Basque Country, with objectives of external action distinct from the Government of Spain, Spain, which you have repeated on numerous occasions in your intervention, since the economic, industrial and cultural model is different. And it is regrettable that these delegations or the SPRI are described as political whims, as they say in their amendment to the whole, as political whims. When they serve as a cultural and economic nexus. They are key to detecting opportunities, as well as advising Basque agents in their internationalization processes. And there is that new opportunity with the delegation in Paris. A country with close ties in various areas that justify its openness. Eta amaitzeko eta zure baimenarekin legebiltzarburu andrea, regarding the euskera and the same argument serves me for EITB. Do not continue mixing Basque and politics please and work to add and make our language a language of future and future. "Nostros y nosotras, el Parto Nacionalist Vasco, continaremos laboro para alcanzar las condiciones que faciliten e e e ees en todos los ámbitos." And defending it and defending it doesn't mean that we won't strengthen or encourage other languages, and I'll give you an example. In these budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u24	There are 6,3 million to improve the quality of foreign languages. The goal is to an elegant education system... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... And I'll give you an example. In these budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u25	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u26	...are 6,3 million to improve the quality of foreign languages, because the objective is to go to an elegant education system. But don't forget, the nerve is ours. We've taken a lot of steps to push and protect everything we've got, and we'll continue to give it all that we need. In the words of the hillman Gontzal: "We have a country to make up, and our neglect is not to let us destroy it."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Next, we'll discuss the whole of Podemos-Nozzeration. Ma'am, it's yours to defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, I'm going to start the way I started last year just because I'm learning that we're in an unusual situation, and that in such cases, in unusual circumstances, there are necessary interventions of the deep, and that the recipes that will lead us to the hole must be ignored. This budget, and from the pandemia, our economy comes after one of the toughest schockiks that ever lived. Death, disease, confiscation, fragility, not knowing. All this conditioned our thought we have today. If we look at the public prepared, health services, lodgings, social services, education, have been several times on the brink of collapse for the last two years. All the workers of the public function, but especially those we know as workers on the first line, have been on the frontier, and have more than once advanced this society. The commerce and host which connects a great part of our neighbors has recovered a little, but they suddenly see their hopes reduced to every wave of virus, and with them thousands of families. At this moment, a lot of companies and stalls are on their way and we have today's date. We know the pandemics have closed 450 pubs and 1,400 shops. This is the current situation in which we are proposing to adopt budgets which we consider to be timid and scarce. Because, although it is true that the rhetoric of the Government has changed, the rhetoric of Mr Azpiazu, also of the lehendakari, has changed, the truth is that the budgetary policy of the Government is still determined by an ideology prevailing in the last decade, and it is that of austerity, that of budgetary balance. It is a dogma that is self-destructive, that has traveled Europe and that in our political space we work to banish definitively. With this in mind, we have attended the budgetary negotiating meetings, and also with the will to reach agreements that will improve the well-being of citizens. And the answer was no. Councillor Azpiazu warned that he was prepared to reach agreements on accounts with the opposition whenever they were realistic and viable proposals. But, of course, in view of what we have seen, we think that he took as such simply those that fit as perfectly in his project, which we consider neoliberal. Far from, by the way, the aspirations and needs of Basque citizens, women workers and workers in this country. In short, we were asked to support accounts that do not shorten the urgency or need for anything. It seemed to us that after the trauma of the pandemic it was rigorous to strengthen public education. It was rigorous to recover the 4,000 positions of reinforcement health workers in the pandemic, which had already been lost. It was rigorous to arbitrate solutions for the price escalation of the electric market, breaking the hegemony of the electric oligopoly. But all these proposals have been rejected. The cancellation of interventions, postponement of treatment and non-urgent consultations have been re-declared these days. I wonder how long? How many of these treatments in the last two years have been late? How many people are in your house suffering? How many healthcare professionals are currently unable to provide enough? It seems to this Government that the recruitment of the 4,000 troops in Osakidetza is unreal. And I think it has become clear that it is not only not unreal, but that it was and is necessary, and it is also urgent. Currently, the virus is marking the highest rate of infection of the entire pandemic at ten days of Christmas; 937 of incidence. It is a record that has never been seen and that also heralds the worsening of the hospital situation. Do you really think that it is not necessary to hire the 4,000 health and health reinforcements? That it's unreal, that it's an unreal proposal that we had? On the other hand, the virus has increased something that we've been warned by responsible societies to an unbearable frontier, and it's a crisis of care. There have been dwellings in the highest possible sphere, where most of the dead have been killed. And the government has chosen to do nothing here as well. And here again is the question: Do you really accept that the lives of our age are to be put into the hands of the vulture funds? How do you know that these people, workers, and their relatives are dangerous to health? ... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Do you know that these people, workers, and their relatives are dangerous to health? We also know today that the workers of the Biscay are on strike. A fair strike, in which they claim, is to place life above business. If we look at economic inequality, it's getting bigger and bigger in our society. And in this context the structure of redistributing wealth has been weakened. In many houses and sectors the situation is intolerable. It should be a firm and structural public intervention. Well, no. You took advantage of the transfer of the minimum income of living to guarantee the incomes of reductions in society, in society, in society, in friends for social emergency, and in general in all the means of societying in budgets. The rest of the public services. Nor has education recovered from more than a decade of its public investment and outsourcing that has undermined the capacity of services and public goods. This budget also gives way to the green transition initiative, paradoxically, to the private sector, in particular the energy and electricity sector, which are, in principle, the cause of the climate crisis. This is the second budget year in this Parliament that brings us to this House and that does not cut any of these things that we consider urgent, but that does not cement the pillars of the structural changes that this country has to undergo in order to be able to face an uncertain future with optimism and with a solid country project. In this context, we doubt this project of budgets in 2022, because it's hopeless because it doesn't extend the necessary tools to ensure economic impulse to be just and exclusive, and because it doesn't strengthen the public services which have been the principal support of our society. If the budget project was carefully examined, the budget project of 2021, compared to the previous, it could be said that a 6% reduction, a reduction, compared to the previous one. For the latter have risen up again, and have risen to 13188 million euros. According to its own macroeconomic table, government final expenditure is expected to increase by 1.9% by 2022. This increase is what could be expected in any normal year of economic growth, a good year. But, in this context of economic crisis, it is actually equivalent to a withdrawal, we consider it premature to stimulate and support households and businesses. When there are hundreds of thousands of Basques and Basques looking for employment, it is not the time to reduce the deficit, but to double the bet for solid recovery. The Basque Budgets Act for this year 2022 should be the fundamental tool for the achievement of public purposes, which in this context could be summarised in two large blocks: on the one hand, the shielding and expansion of public services of a social nature; on the other, the support and planning of an economic recovery that is socially adjusted, and also environmentally sustainable. However, we believe the bill submitted by the Basque Government to this House is not up to this historic moment. We cannot ignore the concern caused by the macroeconomic picture which, as the previous one, has already been overtaken, has been recognised by the facts. A new wave of the pandemic also augurs for new restrictions and difficulties for multiple economic sectors. Economic growth was forecast at 2021 at 6.7% and 5.7% for 22. The Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority already foresees behaviour that is less favourable than gross domestic product by 2021, of 4.5%. Which, given that it is being compared to 2020, which was catastrophic, is certainly a deplorable result. We are also skeptical about the forecast for the year 2022. In fact, estimates of economic growth continue to decline. The latest downward revision is the one made by BBVA, which now leaves it at 5.2% by 2022, less than 5.4 to 6.4, forgiveness, which was initially foreseen by the government. That is to say, things do not paint well, and we are very much afraid that fiscal conservatism, demanded by the European authorities, has deactivated the recovery and has set us on a path of growth that is permanently inferior. That's why we're critical on the purpose of a defense in a public Basque Administration that has been decided. From this chamber, too, without any outward discussion, it will be possible for them to appreciate the propriety of opposition without technical or economic reports. 1,1 with that fixation at 1.1. On the other hand, I must also say that we have an epistemological problem, when we speak of deficit as a purpose, and not as the result of the pretty ones that maximize the welfare of the people. In any case, it should be more flexible if the growth of the predicted raw internal product does not take place. In fact, four %.6% of the collection is unlikely to have enough. And in this case, the worst answer would be to limit the expenses... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... increase may not be enough. And in this case, the worst answer would be to limit expenses. Let's talk about employment. Despite the fact that labour market problems are the main concern of Basque citizens, we have budgets in which the Basque Government does not take responsibility for the elimination of unemployment. The stated objective is that the unemployment rate next year is 9,5 %, of course, as shown in the macroeconomic table itself. It seems to us that this is a very high rate, which has nothing to do with the notion of full employment – indeed, a notion contained in the Constitution. It is a government that we consider to be unambitious in terms of employment. And this is de facto a condemnation of the future aspirations of a population that is subject to the vagaries of a weak labour market. The precariousness, the temporality, the constant need for the formation of a population subject to the whims of the market are elements that deprive the population of their right to live and work in Euskadi, to establish in this country, in Euskadi, their life plan. That is why we also believe that the Basque Government is contributing to the deterioration of a labour market which is already very precarious. Although the Spanish State's General Budgets allow a replacement rate of 110% for 22 and 120% for certain functions, such as education or health, (see?) that the RPT, the Labour Positions Relationship, here hardly contemplates variations. And Article 13.3 stipulates that "Generally speaking, the modification of budgetary appropriations by the creation of new staff shall require the consequent amortisation of the necessary staff, so that they do not represent a higher gross annual cost". It seems that this Government does not want to understand that without high-quality and sufficient public employment there cannot be sufficient and high-quality public services. If we talk about taxation, another of the unresolved problems, long unresolved, in this country, taxation in the Basque Country is far from being redistributive. The tax burden rests primarily on the homes of the workers, with deductions on labour income. And economic activities will account, according to the revenue forecast incorporated in the draft budgets, for 36% of these. VAT, which is a tax which, by its indirect nature, is more than proportional to the most humble households, will account for 25% of the collection. However, the forecasts of corporation tax, property tax and retention of movable and immovable capital and capital gains shall represent less than 7 %, 1 % and 2 % of the total collection respectively. We believe that we have, and the data so corroborate, a tax system that is deeply classy and regressive. And that thanks to reduced tax rates for capital income and a wide range of incentives for savings and portfolio configuration, it increasingly reminds us of a tax system more and more typical of the old regime in which nobility does not pay taxes. The growing inequality of our society calls for urgent tax reform, not only because of the need for greater equity, but also because inequality is a burden on economic recovery. As far as investments are concerned, the Government Council indicates that in the year 1605 million are going to go to investments, 50 percent more than 2021. In fact, the chief physician considers the opportunity of turning investment into a situation as a window. We welcome the announcement. For public subversion brings less money for instruction, for health, even for I+G subjugate. So these investments ensure that the production of our economy is increased. So welcome. But, though added to this promotion, we can't recover the grades prior to the global financial crisis. Before the year-revealing, public investment reached 3.5% of the raw internal procedure of our country. Over the past few years, he's down to 5%. This time, with these millions, he'd go up to %2. The climb, but compared to the previous situation, is still far away. So it's not enough for us. As I said, insufficient public investment translates into less money for specific issues that directly affect the population. One of them, and fundamental at the moment, is health. In order for Basque budgets to ensure adequate per capita health expenditure for the Osakidetza portfolio of services, provision of services below quality standards should be avoided, as this has a negative impact on the safety of users and patients. That is why this government should have increased the budget for health financing, in order to go in line with the EU average. According to 2017 data, Euskadi is among the autonomous communities that least invest in public health in relative terms of Gross Domestic Product. The European Commission, in its new edition of (State of Health in the EU?), the report analysing the state of health systems in the European Union notes that the Spanish State allocated 8.9% of its GDP to health in 2017, while the average in the European Union in the same year was 9.8, i.e. the reversed data. Well, in Euskadi it is 5.2% of GDP. Chronic investment is revealed in the lack of hospital beds. We have 2.7 beds per 1,000 inhabitants, compared to a European average of 5 per 1,000 inhabitants. These are data from the INE... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... hospital beds. We have 2.7 beds per 1,000 inhabitants, compared to a European average of 5 per 1,000 inhabitants. These are data from the INE. We also have one of the lowest ratios of UCI beds, according to the Ministry of Health, 10.05 UCI beds per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to a European average of 12.9. In conclusion, and to conclude, we believe that these budgets represent another missed opportunity, not only to consolidate an economic recovery, but above all to ensure that it is inclusive and fair. They are budgets with witness to the fight against climate change, but they continue to trust that the problem will be resolved only with small market incentives. These are budgets with a lot of hollow words about gender impact. These are budgets that have given up learning from the health crisis. They say, with these budgets, that they are doing different and unprecedented things. But paraphrasing (...) and Lupo: "Word Word". Because what they're doing is the same as usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Next, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u30	Good morning, good afternoon. For summarizing my partner and spokesperson, Miren Gorrotxategi. Mr Azpiazu, the budget of the Basque Government for the year 2022, in our view, is not a guarantee of a fair distribution of our country's wealth, nor of public resources to ensure decent living conditions for the whole population, nor to guarantee the necessary equality and social cohesion. We therefore did not conceive of opposing these budgets from our left-wing position and, of course, knowing that the Government has an absolute majority to carry them forward is never going to be a reason for us to give up the political alternative in the form of an amendment to the whole. We are going to reject the budgets this year also on an occasion when it was Euskal Herria Bildu who decided to give the approval to them, in exchange for changes in headings that do not even represent 1% of them and, above all, that do not involve any political exchange rate. An agreement that I would like, at least, curious, above all, after listening, in my case, from the barrier, to the harsh criticism that EH Bildu, in his time, made to my companions of Podemos, for a budgetary agreement that I would say of a similar nature. We will therefore defend today an alternative to the model of the Basque Government in the form of an amendment to the whole. We shall therefore vote for the return of the budgets. We believe that nothing has changed and the budgets presented this year maintain the same logic as in previous years, an important, powerful transfer of public money to the private sector, which we have been rejecting year after year, and measures to cut social benefits from those who need it most and who have so much criticized and listened to us year after year. We will continue to demand the final point of the change in the benefits of the GIR, which remains, in our view, a cut maintained over time through, for example, an additional provision that should never have existed. These budgets continue to allocate a large part of the economic resources of public services to the private sector, part of which in this country lives exclusively from public services and public resources, and at the expense of the working conditions of women workers. While, in turn, we maintain the highest rate of temporaryity in public employment throughout the State. It is a model that, in our view, continues to pamper the needs of the employer in the face of the needs of the working class, through different programmes and also through this model of outsourcing and award of services without guarantees for maintenance and for the quality of jobs. That is why we propose an alternative. Today, in this debate, the issue was to propose an alternative to budgets after not agreeing on them. The alternative we propose is, among other things, to reverse much of the outsourced services and, above all, to equip the autonomous community with a powerful public sector to avoid, among many other things, but landing at the most current, to avoid, as is already happening, leaving without a vacation, for example, the staff of Osakidetza, who is exhausted and over demand for work. Our alternative is to boost public education and public school, now that, in our opinion, it is threatened by a reform that, if things do not change, and we see it with great concern, can end up reinforcing the educational model that we have, with the greater presence of private centres financed with public resources from all over the State, and I would say that from all of Europe, to the detriment of the public. Our alternative proposes resources to combat unemployment, because we cannot live up to a target of 10% or 9% in unemployment, with the wealth that is generated in this country, with the wealth that is generated in Euskadi. And we propose an alternative to empowering the public also in strategic sectors, energy, banking and, of course, in everything related to essential services for people. And, of course, we also do not give up the more than necessary tax reform, so that this is an effective tool for redistribution of wealth. But it is true that we believe that we have made an effort this year not to include it, this question of fiscal reform, in the budgetary negotiation before a government that continued or continues to refuse to negotiate with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita in the fiscal sphere, within the budgetary framework, when it did so with the People's Party at the time. I've said it many times in this rostrum. However, I believe that this effort has not been enough, because the Government is not prepared to change its policies and models; it is only willing to negotiate parties... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... It has not been enough, because the Government is not prepared to change its policies and models; it is only willing to negotiate specific items. And that is why we have more reason than ever to put the amendment in its entirety. Because we think that if the Government was not willing to change its policies, when it needed votes or needed votes in the opposition because it had no absolute majority, it would be less willing, and less willing to do so now, with that absolute majority. That is why, as I said, we have more reason than ever to put this amendment to the full and vote for the return of budgets, than I would call the so-called poor public-private partnership, which I believe is a conservative policy that sets the public and public resources on a very high priority towards the private.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. On the other hand, the Basque Socialists... Yes, yes... Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u32	Thank you, President. Alternative proposals to budgets are being discussed today. We are debating whether there is an alternative model to deal with the economic and social recovery of Euskadi from the point of view of reality. And there is debate as to whether the parliamentary groups know how to read and understand the society in which we live and the Parliament in which we are represented. And the socialists have known how to do it over 135 years of our history. We've been able to understand Basque history. We've been able to understand every moment. And, for this legislature, we made a clear commitment to citizenship: that each and every one of the votes we had were going to devote to stability, to ensuring health, to the economic and social recovery of Euskadi and to leaving no one behind. That we were going to bet without complexes on a strong government, with a clear road map, and that we were going to agree equally without complexes and vetoes. Basque citizenship gave us enough strength to make this Government possible. And then we said that, despite the absolute majority, we were going to keep that hand open and sincere to those in this House who would like to participate in this unprecedented moment, which requires exceptional answers. An unprecedented situation that cannot drag us into old school tactics, to accommodate ourselves in our seats, both of government and opposition. And if the pandemic gave us in its initial moment a lesson of humility to all and all, in its evolution, in its successive waves, it has forced us to an effort of collaboration above each other's claims, and looking at the common good. And it has given us the lesson that new problems need new, different answers, beyond any electoral and political calculation. Today, the Basque Socialists, by rejecting the amendments as a whole, are ratifying that commitment we made with the citizens in the last elections: making their votes useful. That the Government's action be focused on the rescue of those who are suffering the most from this difficult situation. And besides, a strange situation for everyone and everyone. And also in pushing from below a profound transformation of our country. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita presents an amendment to the whole, after a negotiation process that began with a proposal, for its part, valued at 500 million euros, without fixing red lines, and which ended without success. Because it's not about giving up. Pactar is to find common ground, recognizing one's own forces and recognizing plurality. That is what the Socialists have been doing: investing in stability and progress. Pactar means leaving the comfort zone, which gives you warmth when there is a headline that puts you in the media arena. And not making a pact takes you away from what you really need who voted you and who didn't. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita calls for the return of perfectly aligned budgets, and in the same tune and lines of action with those of the places where this group has responsibilities of government: either in Irún, in Navarre or in Madrid. To be an alternative one has to be credible. And you cannot be credible when you ask for a return of accounts that, although not fully shared, contain the same tools as those of other governments where you are present. From the Basque Government they are proposed, in the offer of negotiation, 72 million euros, move departures, and in addition, commitments in health, education, environment, housing and employment. Commitments like strengthening Osakidetza. Commitments in oral health, mental health. With grants to companies for emission control-oriented actions. Also with investments in educational establishments and bonuses in tuition from 0 to 3 years. Promoting mentoring programmes in Lanbide, on training in new economic niches for unemployed people, new jobs in labour inspection, commitments in social inclusion, in social aid for energy expenditure, in youth emancipation, in policy of transition towards new models of care, in equality for migrant and refugee women, in social rental, in drive of the Basque economy, and also proposed the revival of the €90 million in 2021 of the Energy Sustainability Fund for Basque Town Halls. And the break in the negotiations opened up an opportunity for another parliamentary group, Euskal Herria Bildu, which has concluded with a budgetary agreement which it has assumed and which has put into value the usefulness of the exercise of the policy of agreement and dialogue, which undoubtedly serves the benefit of Basque society. Because what can you push and do with six seats if you don't agree with this government? Is there another way to influence public policies? And as your amendment to the whole is extensive, I will try to explain the rejection of the Basque Socialists of the approaches proposed in it. As far as income is concerned, either by taxation, European funds or indebtedness, I do want to make it clear, beyond the commitment to a tax review, that our tax system is a progressive system; it is not a retrogressive system. That the European funds linked to the Next Generation Recovery Plan have a mechanism of incorporation and budgetary management in Chapter 5, in Articles 26 to 33 of the Budget Act. And with regard to indebtedness, the deficit target reference rate is the figure agreed in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert. And, therefore, to the data we have to stick to if we want to be rigorous, and not to longing for what could have been and which, by the way, is a higher reference rate... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... And, therefore, we must stick to the data if we are to be rigorous, not to longing for what might have been and which, by the way, is a higher reference rate than in other autonomous communities of common system. In addition, we have the recognition of the deficit target for outlaws. These are the members with whom revenue must be planned, and the Government's commitment to pursue a budgetary policy based on the rigorous use of public resources and the sustainability of public finances must be maintained, also seeking to meet the deficit and debt limits agreed upon in the Joint Commission on Concert. With regard to the expenditure chapter proposed by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, the Socialists did want to make it clear, first of all, that these are budgets which, with EUR 13,108 million, seek the economic revival of Euskadi, and one of its main axes is the proposal of EUR 1,6 billion in public investment, which means an increase of that 50% more in the investment chapter than the current budgets and which Mrs Gorrotxategi has acknowledged. Secondly, in the area of health, and I said this in my previous speech, we are facing a budget of EUR 4,352 million, an increase of 4%, highlighting Chapter 2, which is growing by 3.1% and corresponds to Osakidetza's programme contract, and Chapter 4, which is increasing by 4.2% in a commitment decided by the socio-health sector, so that social and health care is increasing by 13.9%. And we cannot pass this area without regreting this break in the negotiation that proposed to increase 30 million euros in Osakidetza to implement the Primary Care Strategy and carry out organizational changes to ensure face-to-face consultations and decrease waiting lists in health centers, or the extension even of oral health services in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, extending it to minors between 0 and 6 years, pregnant women, people with disabilities and people in cancer processes, in addition to budget increases for the field of mental health with opening of new resources. Third question. In the area of employment and employment, you minimize the employment target below 9.5%. Despite the fact that in August 2020 we reached the peak of unemployment, with 146,450 people, and when the forecasts pointed to very high unemployment rates. One month after the start of this legislature, unemployment began to reduce, even before the pandemic in most sectors, when in the financial crisis of more than a decade ago the pace of recovery was much slower. As for the quality of the job that is generated, it is still weak, it is true, because of high temporality and unintended partiality. And both issues are trying to tackle within the competence framework of the Social Dialogue Bureau headed by the Ministry of Labour in order to reach agreement on a new labour framework that would put an end to the deficits in the labour reform of the People's Party. This is what the Basque Socialists have said in the various initiatives we have discussed in this Parliament. And in our area of competence, the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 has been designed, with the participation of social partners and with the monographic debate held at its own request by the Department of Labour and Employment in this Parliament. This strategy is the great ground, the great foundation that will guide all employment actions for almost a decade. And the Basque Socialists, unlike you, value collective bargaining as a key to the defence of working people and the progress of businesses. The attitude of the Department of Labour and Employment in labour disputes is that of respect for them and the constant contact with committees and companies, offering their intervention to find the points of agreement, and, if the parties decide, also to subscribe to the solutions. Another element that seems to me that Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita wants to confront is the management of the files of the ERTE that in Euskadi was exemplary, facilitating all the ways to ensure that this network spread over time with agile formulas. With regard to the supplements to the EERTs, you do not know the agreements of the Social Dialogue Bureau in Euskadi, which sets out amounts, time limits for resolution and income ceilings. The complements have been less than those calculated at the worst time of the crisis, because we have been able to resist and recover economic activity more energetically than expected. Euskadi has been the only autonomous community that has dealt with each and every case of those who met the requirements. And live files are still being processed for six months by decision of that social dialogue table, and the complement to the ERTEs is maintained. As for RGI, the mantra of the cut obvious reality. The amounts have increased over the past three years in the most unprotected groups. Its reform has been presented publicly, explained to the groups, gone through a process of participation, evaluated by the Economic and Social Council of Euskadi and is in the final internal phase by the COJUA and the body of economic coordination, economic control. I regret that Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita did not accept the increase of two million in Lanbide's call for assistance in the training and acquisition of skills of new job niches for unemployed people, which will not accept the new grant line of two million euros focused on mentoring in the Lehen Aukera programs, and promoting youth employment in administrations linked to the promotion of the relief contract so as not to lose knowledge for retirements, or the increase of four additional places in the Labour Inspectorate. Regarding housing, the Basque socialists consider that in these budgets there is no renunciation, no renunciation of the implementation of the subjective right to housing. The legal mandate was fulfilled, as it could not be otherwise. As regards the supplementary housing benefit and the economic housing benefit, up to 275 euros per month have been increased from 2021. And I also regret, in this case, the break-up of the negotiation and that they will not accept an increase of five million euros in the purchase of public housing for social rent, that they will not accept the completion of the regulatory development of the Housing Law, with particular attention to the approval of the Decree of the Subjective Housing Law, with the necessary budgetary modifications for its start-up, and to put in the Tax Coordination Body fiscal measures to contain the prices of the rent and to put in place a system of price control for private rent when the state law... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... tax measures to contain rental prices and to introduce a private rental price control system where permitted by state law. In education, you also refused in the negotiation to increase 8 million euros the investment plan to cover courtyards of public centers and to have a million euros to reduce by 15% the tuition fees in education of 0-3 years. In terms of energy, with regard to the creation of the Public Renewable Energy Society, since 1982 we have had an energy agency, the Basque Energy Agency, which over the decades has played a fundamental role in the evolution of the Basque energy system, both in terms of the gasification of Euskadi and in its participation in strategic energy projects for the country; it is also a recognized reference at the state and international level. And they have rejected economic proposals in the environment in their negotiating strategy. In social policies they have rejected the multiannual commitment of 11 million, almost 11 and a half million euros, to promote projects linked to the social inclusion of groups and people at risk of exclusion. They have rejected the increase of 2 million euros in AES for energy or domestic fuel costs. They have rejected €800,000 for diagnostics and municipal youth emancipation plans. They have rejected the €500,000 increase for the project of the European cross-border pole on ageing and longevity to boost the policy of transition to new models of care. They have rejected the improvement of the facilities of the Oñati migrant and refugee reception centre. That was, that was his decision. And policy coherence is too despised a value. The Socialists have been consistent in what we say and in what we do, we intend to be useful to Basque society. The Socialists have been criticized for the policies of agreements between different to make progressive policies in which we began to get involved a long time ago in Euskadi and which we recovered eight years ago, being today a water mark from other places, from our municipalities to Navarra, and in the government of Pedro Sánchez. And by consistency, by commitment, because we keep our word and because it is the best for Basque citizenship, we will reject the request for the return of these budgets posed by Elkarrekin PodemosUnited Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as I know, we're not in an election campaign. It's two and a half years before the election. But who would say listening to his speeches and reading the amendment to the whole, which has artillery eh. Is that your strategy? If they really aspire to rule, they should collaborate, not generate tensions or alarms. Because today, Mrs Gorrotxategi, in a very soft tone, but alarms of collapse, lies with the budgetary figures that this budget is decreasing, with the outdated revenues of that budget, I do not know if you have listened to me and the Sailburu in the first intervention in which we justified the budgeting of these revenues. They continue with their dogmas and demagoguegies, with their lies and with their criticism, without arguments. But I have to tell you that a responsible opposition would not do this, but control and discuss with the government, and also support it. I think they confuse constructive criticism with disqualification and intransigence. Because we are all necessary, and so are you. And on the way to build the team, we have clearly the contribution of these budgets. I said it before, didn't I? To promote 138 million education, health, social protection, economics in many sectors, to work in various areas and areas. As we saw every detail and detail in all the budgets of the department, isn't it? And that's why I'm surprised again that Podemos-Nozzer, the negative attitude of the Animite team, the lack of courage to give rise to the hand and the hand of the express amendment and the expense of the invaders. They've had a great opportunity for the deal, to put political vertigo aside. They have been able to risk and take on new challenges, but they have led us to political disappointment. And I believe that this is the definition you said, Mrs Gorrotxategi, of timorate, which is more in line with your attitude and not with that of this Basque Government, which is more in courage. They broke the negotiations unilaterally, sending a message to the Councilman eight minutes before announcing at the press conference their amendment to the whole; this demonstrates their lack of readiness for the agreement. A very media policy and inconsistent. You know that this budget is much more social than that of the communities in which you govern, much more social than the general budgets of the State, where our group, after an intense and sincere negotiation, has entered. That's what we call politics with capitals. A policy that in Euskadi Podemos has parked. They could be as demanding in Madrid as they are here, but no, they did not want to be up to what the moment demands. But I have to tell you that this group, Euzko Abertzaleak, and this government will continue with its hand, and we do not lose the hope that in the coming years from Podemos they will be able to face budgetary negotiations in a serious and frank way; even more so seeing the members so weak on which their amendment to the whole is based. And I'll explain myself. They indicate that it is a budget that does not guarantee the recovery and provision of social services. That is what the text of your amendment says. Right, because it goes way beyond that. These are the budgets of transformation and major challenges, the budgets of investment and also the opportunity to incorporate resources from Europe. It would be very helpful, Mrs Gorrotxategi, to use your presence in the Government of Spain for the benefit of Euskadi, and to work towards the greatest volume of European funds. Because then they will be pushing and making this society progress. And I remind you of the answer to the three strategic projects referred to Mrs Calviño, on Friday we will ask the adviser for this. The distribution criterion used which has made Euskadi only receive 1.38% of PRTR funding for sport. Or in the distribution for the creation of new places 03 free years, that Euskadi stays out by having sufficient places created with own resources. We need distribution criteria adapted to our reality, use their influence at the service of this society, its companies, its industry and its development. Second leg, the leg of social services. You have to have the courage to... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... its influence at the service of this society, its enterprises, its industry and its development. Second leg, the leg of social services. It is necessary to have courage to exalt, as Pilar Garrido did, the General Budgets of the State and to disqualify the Basques. Here eight out of ten euros go to social spending, in their budgets six. We have the system of protection that allocates more resources to people, especially the most vulnerable. We measure ourselves with the most advanced countries in Europe. And you come to us with this weak and unruly speech. You won't need to remember that your peers copy our social policies wherever they rule. And it's pride, because it means things are going well. Better? Always. And that's where this project gets incardinated. To reach anyone who needs it, leaving no one behind. Personak is the age of babysitter, personak erdigunean. And since they like the data a lot, he quoted some of you as obviating. First, Social Services Development Index 2020, conducted by the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, more than me and you will know. And they conclude that Euskadi has the most skilled social services in the state. We are, together with Navarra, the only community that has obtained an excellent rating. Second, the 2020 Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities, conducted by the statistical body of the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy. 90.6% of the Basque population lives in welfare, showing a level comparable to the most advanced countries in Europe. The system therefore works and fulfils its objective of reaching the most disadvantaged groups. Third, data from the ministry. Euskadi is the autonomous community with the population under 18 at risk of poverty or exclusion at 13%, with the state average at 29.5 and in Europe at 28. We could continue with more surveys, reports and data. And the conclusion is common in all of them: our model cohesives, fights poverty and inequalities. And they are strengthened year by year, as in these budgets, and this government will continue to do so in the future, because this policy of social justice and solidarity represents a sign of identity of this government and of EAJ-PNV. Income guarantee income, with a 3% increase by 2022, a progressive and steady increase historically. But once again insufficient for you. When, one, the increase is the same as your Government's budgets for minimum living income, and two, the important thing was not the protective value of the benefit and not its amount. That's how you defended him in the General Courts. But here, curiously, you question its amount. But I do keep the protective value. We were pioneers at the time in articulating a basic income guarantee policy and then there have been many autonomous communities that have followed us, but none have reached the levels of coverage and protection that we have here. The Basque system of social services, which is also a key instrument for addressing challenges, such as the demographic challenge or the transition or transformation of the care model; also for social cohesion and equality, equality of opportunity, equality of men and women. And this budget is moving on that path. Actions also to promote lives free of violence against women, 18 million. Or the consolidation of the Gizonduz program, increasing its endowment by 2022. And all this assuming, from the hand of Emakunde, the challenge of the strategy against the wage gap. As you can see, there are many challenges, a lot of work that this budget intends to do. And today, as in the 1980s, it is a matter of priorities. And those of this government and of the Basque Nationalist Party are clearly framed and reflected in this project. A project in which they were able to focus, because the Basque Government offered them 11.4 million more for social inclusion, 2 million more for social emergency aid, 800,000 more for youth emancipation plans, 500,000 more for the European Cross-Border Pole project on Ageing and (Longevity?)). Eta denari ezetza eman diazue. He's been in your hands, but you'd rather stay at the neoliberal review than in improving the budget. It is you who believe, Mr Hernandez, that ideology is a fence with many pinchos and many tips. That made that even when we agreed with your coalition in 2020 the budgets you, United Left, will vote against. Example of intransigence. Lock we don't understand. I believe that ideology should serve as a political aspiration, but not as a limit to building a country, this country in common. And clearly his position is justified by his strategy, perpetual on the United Left and transient on Elkarrekin Podemos. Economics development, social services, and a third column of education. Education. They ask for a pact for inclusion, free of charge of the haurreskolas, to eliminate concerts at schools that segregate by sex or the change of model of management of the school canteens. But all these issues are being discussed in this Parliament in a paper setting out the basis of the agreement for the Basque educational pact. And we believe that we should not interfere in the legislative process. But, even so, and without prejudice to that, I would like to give you some data. Education is and will continue to be one of the essential drivers of budgets. 25 % of the budget is allocated, EUR 3.235 million. But the Government still offered them an increase of 8 million for an investment plan. To what they said no. The budget of 0 and 3-way is maintained. And children's school will take the budget to 65,7 million, raising 3.1%. But more importantly, the government offered to continue to advance towards the freegoing, and to advance to the generality of education between 0 and 3 years, and to update the present crime system for the mats. And even this time it's not. An important part of the budget is devoted to inclusion policies, attention to diversity and special educational needs. Not to mention the actions that will be carried out with this budget to address school segregation and improve school dining, with 17% more investment than the previous year. And all this work without forgetting form and investigation. 55 million dollars to build a new building of medical and medical science, to encourage EHU's excellence. Progress in scientific policy designed to promote the preparation and improvement of investigators. Contribution 6% per year (... ) With a wager to increase. 69,5 million dollars for cool research, the highest budget we've ever had in our history. As you can see, the demagogue of facts is emptied. Eta azken atal bat, energy. They ask to set up a public energy company to generate and market energy and thus reduce the energy bill. I'm asking you how. By generating energy through all the projects which this Government and Mrs Tapia have wanted to push forward and which have obtained their rejection? Saying no to those generation projects? If it's not generating, marketing. But how? Entering into the system, a marginalist system, which in Madrid our group, in Madrid, to its Government, our group has proposed to reform it? You... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... But how? Entering into the system, a marginalist system that in Madrid, our group, in Madrid, to its Government, our group, has proposed to reform it? You well know that this energy company you propose does not drive energy sovereignty through generation, and does not ensure the fall in energy price. And it is not the intention of the Basque Government to be mere observers or to hide behind the argument that the price of energy belongs to others. I also urge Mrs Gorrotxategi and Mr Hernández to act in Madrid. But you speak as if the energy were raining from the sky. They teach us lessons. They bet on the green, the renewable. But they reject everything that this Government proposes. Energy concerns this Government. It is a factor derived from the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic. We, and this Government, are starting from the fact that, first, energy saving, and then energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction. Zero broadcast by 2050. It advocates a common European energy policy, knowing that it is very difficult, because energy models are quite different. In France, nuclear; in Norway, hydraulics... They're not common models. And a common approach is very difficult. But a policy of supply and strategic reserves is easier. A common energy policy in Europe, also linked to industrial policy. Energy policies that help families, and there the work of the administrations, helping to combat energy poverty, and politics looking at companies in a society like ours, industrial. And, in their amendment to the whole, they cited that, that we are, that we are close to the employer, Petronor, Enagas, and they cited these companies. And, of course, that the Basque Government is aligned with the projects of these companies, while working, for example, on the hydrogen corridor project that drives from behind. And I'm going further. The commitment of this Basque Government to climate change. Commitment from Basque Green Deal, commitment at COP21 in Paris and this year in Glasgow, the Waste Plan in eight years has been reduced by 17% in waste generation. The commitment to reduce by 30% in 10 years by 2030, and the commitment to value 85% of the waste, 97 million for this. The three projects presented to Vice President Calviño: one of connected mobility, one of data ecosystem and one of advanced therapies. Work is done on the Climate Change Act. And in 2019 the Basque government assumed the declaration of climate emergency, of the first autonomous communities. Attitude compromised. These policies, plans and strategies have enabled the Basque economy to grow by 20% since 2005, while greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by 27%. Results that encourage this Government to continue to drive a sustainable and inclusive development model, with investments such as the $305 million for carbon neutrality, territorial resilience and renewable energy, or the $45 million for the Circular Economy and Bioeconomy Plan. That is why I sincerely believe that these budgets are good budgets that will face all these challenges, which can be improved, yes, without blushing. And, in fact, there are the agreements that we have reached with all the groups, with the People's Party, with Elkarrekin Podemos and with Bildu. But I think it is sufficiently clear that the arguments for defending your amendment to the whole of it today and, above all, with that critical tone used in its wording, fall by their own weight. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing on the answering round, together the representative of Podemos-Nozarship, Mrs. Hatch, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u36	Thank you, ma'am, again. Well, I think we have already made it clear that the macroeconomic data from these budgets are not expansive. In any case, I did not intend to delve into this matter either, but, well, on the subject of the interventions of the bodies supported by the Government, I did want to make some assessments. Mrs Corcuera told us that in order to be a government force, we must be credible. Credibility. Certainly, it is absolutely important. And it was based on credibility on several factors, one of those elements. What were we doing in other places where we have some involvement in the Government? What we can do. It's true that we do what we can. But it is not true that the result is exactly the same as those budgets reflect. And, for example, data. In this case, in Euskadi, the 4,000 health workers, for example, who were hired to strengthen Osakidetza during the pandemic. How many places are going to be, how many places are going to be consolidated in Euskadi? Zero. We are going to Valencia, for example, where we are, in whose government we have some presence. The Valencian Community has indicated that of the 9,309 contracts that were formalised in connection with the pandemic, 6,050 will be renewed. There's a difference between zero and 6.050. For its part, in Navarra, the Navarro health service has expressed its intention to maintain the maximum possible staff trained during these months of pandemic, both for tasks related to the management of the covid and for more seasonal ones. That is, the department is also working to consolidate a template that here, an objective that here is not even glimpsed. We will see, over time, if, in the end, the government does not end up hiring some of these health care providers, so the credibility of ours I believe would be clearly proven, as it was, by the way, when, and Mrs Corcuera also referred to the 500 million more we projected in the budgets, if we stick to the spending of more budget than the previous year, were more than 600 million. I mean it shouldn't be so incredible, so unreal and so unbelievable to aspire to a spending level of 500 million more. We have also been criticized, Mrs Berrojalbiz was also speaking to us (...) the lack of rigour is also linked with the concept of credibility. Man, rigor, rigor, not to give many lessons... The famous message of the eight minutes before the press conference, of course, that press conference was not to announce the amendment as a whole. That didn't happen. Where's the rigor in this you're telling me? At that press conference, what we did was to announce that we were presenting a bill for the creation of a public energy company. And it was our turn of nut, our turn of nut to sit back and to be able to negotiate with force what we had proposed at the previous table. The counselor was the one who said good-bye until the following year. Not me. So, well, rigor... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ...previous table. The counselor was the one who said good-bye until the following year. Not me. So, well, rigor... Anyway. There is also a lack of rigour in talking about the six euros, eight euros per inhabitant in expenditure. Man, it's just that if we look at the competencies that each administration has assigned, each entity, it's that they don't have to do with it. The competences in the Basque Country are mainly in the field of education and health, which, by the way, counts the Basque Government as social expenditure. What do you want? Then, compare incomparable magnitudes, as they are seeing a lack of important rigour. In any case, and the fundamental thing, the fundamental thing that makes us defend this return today from what we consider to be a bad draft of budgets, is the following: and that is that these accounts do not ensure recovery. From our point of view, they don't guarantee it. Moreover, in view of the recent evolution of the pandemic. And we believe that they will not be able to replenish any more, and for us that is fundamental, we believe that these budgets will not be able to replenish public services that are already heavily punished. We have commented on it, we have warned Mr Azpiazu as well, there are matters which are pressing, which are too important, and on which the Basque Government should intervene with great force. Well, it's not like that. And it's not for nothing, but it's not a receipt that Osakidetza is stopping dating face-to-face this week, walking a path that we had hardly started to walk. Thousands of treatments, routine visits, priests have been postponed in the last two years. And now, now, with these budgets, it was time to get back the lost time. But now, now, it's late today. And the incidence data in this autonomous community, in Euskadi, are horribly bad. And that's an objective, absolutely rigorous fact. Do you realize that under his mandate Osakidetza is in danger of retreating, of retreating, of forgiveness, of ever more? This same week, Councillor Azpiazu was giving a prize to a private health company, IMQ, whose business model, by the way, is basically based on the fact that some of the public health problems chronicled, by management, by mismanagement, have no solution. That's his business model. The increase in the acquisition of some form of health insurance in Euskadi, due to this chronisation of these public health problems, is above 30% in some Basque provinces. A government management success that, by the way, will almost deserve the award not from the government to IMQ, but from IMQ to the government for the favor it is doing to its business. And yes, I think it is a very bad week to approve this budget which is intended, because precisely the areas in which we are aware, which my group has warned that there is a need for profound and structural changes, precisely in these areas, are once again in everyone's hands today. I don't like this to be like this. Believe me, I'd rather it wasn't like that. But that's what's going on. Primary care is collapsing. Women residential workers are struggling with minimal services that also violate the right, by the way, to strike. And we have another historical maximum in the price of light. All this, all these areas we had put on the table. And all this was called unreal. For the problems of Basques and Basques are certainly not unreal. These are the problems of citizenship and I assure you that they are not unreal. What is unreal is to expect a better future for Euskadi with these budgets. Citizenship demands solutions and the formulas are also quite clear, there are places where they are being tested, there are countries that we can see, with an expansive, clear budget bets and with a growth, a growing role of the public sector with more and better investment. We represent a different political and social model. All equally legitimate. Ours is different. That's no secret. And I believe that, during the budgetary negotiations, this government had the opportunity to be left to influence, to take some progressive measures, to improve on something budgets that are obviously insufficient. Well, they have preferred to continue to do politics in front of the gallery, trying to appear a dialogueal attitude as public services in Euskadi crumble.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Passing the answers, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u38	Let's see. Mrs Gorrotxategi, the Basque Socialists regret the return to the political vertigo of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. The legitimacy of the discrepancy can be understood. Also political criticism and anti-account positioning. But, look, to suggest that the budget bill of Euskadi for 2022 is not up to the historical moment is to have such a maximalistic and corseted vision that it is really an absolutely useless policy for citizens. From the opposition it is not governed, Mrs Gorrotxategi, but it is possible to participate in policies that serve citizens. Decisions can be influenced if complex ones are left behind. Strengthen our public services, create jobs and make this one of quality and... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... can influence decisions if they are left behind complex. Strengthening our public services, creating jobs and ensuring that they are of quality, and ensuring social policies so that no one is left behind, moving towards a just recovery, required, requires the efforts of all. But look, it was up to us all to commit to the country at a time as delicate as this. And to do so, moreover, with a high eye, and also with responsibility. And the Basque Socialists believe that Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita has not been able to live up to it. Because this is not a moment of fears or partisan strategies that prevent us from moving forward and pushing solutions to the challenges that are coming to us, and that compromise future generations. Look, the socialists believe that money is better in public services than in the pockets of those who have the most. These are not timid or scarce budgets. And, of course, EUR 500 million of its offer in the negotiating part of its proposal, in the negotiation, is neither an alternative model, nor politically nor socially. It is not an alternative model, when we are talking about budgets of EUR 13,108 million. These budgets respond to two issues: their basis, the government agreement and the government programme. This is what is contained. And if Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita really wanted to influence what is sitting here as a basis for getting out of the health crisis, for recovering the economy and employment without leaving anyone behind, they would have been able to do so. But you remained imperishable with your proposal. Nothing progressed, and they preferred to leave reinforcements, even in the matter of principles that you validated in your proposal, to say "no". And then he hits them with jealousy, because they leave the door of political strategy open to Euskal Herria Bildu. And you get that jealous attack. And now they justify in an amendment to the whole of their political landscape and strategy because they have had to take a step back; of course, they have stumbled. There they have been clumsy in their political strategy, when they have had power over their hand to influence. But well, you are legitimately qualified to do what you consider appropriate. But don't say that these budgets don't tackle needs or emergencies, because that's lying. That's lying. These budgets have done so, addressing needs and emergencies in 2021, and they continue to do so in 2022. The budgets also provide the necessary incentives for the necessary economic recovery to make possible this exit from the health and economic crisis. And its amendment to the whole and its gateway to budgetary negotiation turns its back on measures that Elkarrekin's own coalition Podemos-Izquierda Unita had included in its proposals. And it was supposed to reinforce the policies and actions of the Basque Government envisaged in those Basque budgets by 2022. And, therefore, while some are eluding their responsibility with maximalist strategies, the Basque Socialists are about to take these budgets forward. To manage them with the most correct, with the utmost responsibility, which is at the end of our commitment of government: to ensure the health of citizens, economic recovery and employment without leaving anyone behind. And let your colleague, Mr Hernández, tell you what was said yesterday in the Health Committee regarding the recruitment of reinforcement staff in Osakidetza. Let him tell you, that he was present in that committee. And another question, Mrs Gorrotxategi. Compare budget proposals to budget proposals. Never compare a draft budget to a budgetary liquidation or a budgetary consolidation, because it will be mixing things that then lead to very important errors. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. If I'm honest with you, I don't understand your position. In those proposals such as the energy entity, the educational pact and the hiring of 4,000 workers in Osakidetza we have offered them data, arguments that support the unnecessary of their approaches. But, as I see you insist, I will stop at this last issue, of Osakidetza's resources, because it seems relevant to me. Health resources. All necessary to ensure and strengthen a universal, free and quality public health system. Resources that we obtain from our progressive tax system, and not as you describe in your amendment to the whole, and I read literally for the astonishment that generated me: "to a tax system that more and more recalls that of the old regime, when nobility did not pay taxes." Do you think this is serious, when in Euskadi you are taxed on property tax, when the marginal rate of the IRPF is 49%, when you are taxed on inheritance and donations tax, when there is a minimum tax on corporation tax that you, in the State, ten years later have copied? No, no, Their arguments are not serious, but they are not solid either. It has the resources it needs to share, and every person has a quality health service guaranteed. And it is true that at these times pandemia, in situations which are impossible and variable, there are needs of workers and resources (... ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? The Pandemi made an extraordinary effort: in opposition to the workers, in the adaptation and material of space. And a lot of these things will stay. But resources, to each situation, have to be measured. We can't turn them into a cirripedes. And this is knowledge of public resources. We know how much effort it takes from the Medical Department to adapt to each new situation. And, that's a sign, there are 1224 trackers a week ago. About 600 professionals: Osalan... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... fit. And, that's a sign, there are 1224 trackers a week ago. About 600 professionals: Osalan, the epidemic observation, the social network of Mental Health has been hired to this sixth wave 943 professionals, and without forgetting the new protocols and new technology. To face daily needs, and to give stability to workers, OPE: OPE of 3,500 Square. Or the consolidation of the plates, which the chief Mount of Mount Garas has spoken. As far as the budget is concerned, there's plenty of effort. More than $4 billion to health, keeping up the covid program of $185 million. Upon mental health, where the budget is raised by 13%. In equipment, investments: More than 100 million, in which 20 million is going to pay our first attention. And what a piece of data says, a very important data: The health expense of 1,984 euros per person, increasing every year. So I'd like one thing to be clear: It's the budget that's gonna guarantee the health of the people. What society rates. You don't, but society does. 81% supports co-operation handling with the 7:5th average. And look at how unfundamental your proposal is that I'm going to set an example for you. The request they make for training required for Ertzaintza in the field of human rights. In 2015, the final review of human rights for new ertzainas, in 2015, 76 pages of the material of the training courses on human rights issues. And to finish, for 2022 60,000 euros for a new training agreement in this matter with the UPV. And even though this is the reality, projects can be improved. And in what you intended to improve, this government made you an offer. 30 million more to strengthen Osakidetza, oral health, mental health; 5 million more to social rent, 500,000 to advance in gratuitousness to study Basque, and more measures that covered their own approaches, but that their group did not have the courage to agree. Why? For in that tremendous eight-minute bargaining space that they gave to the government, which, I'm sorry, wasn't eight, because it wasn't at the press conference, it was a couple of minutes later, okay?, in that tremendous ten-minute space, it didn't give the government time to find out why it wasn't brave. But not seeing the offer made by the Government on its approaches. And not seeing this expense grow either... in expenditure this budget. EUR 1.3 billion more than the budget you supported in 2020. When the debt and deficit reference rates have been negotiated with his Government and have been expressed as much as possible. When the key is investment, more than EUR 1.6 billion, with strategic investments, which, by the way, insist on it, but then in a partial amendment it collides with the reduction of EUR 50 million they demand for Finkatuz. When the R & D bet is clear, EUR 588 million, which represents 2.8 of the GDP, and not the 0.78% you proclaim. In this scenario, Mrs Gorrotxategi and Mr Hernández, if this scenario is not an expansive, inverter and countercyclical budget, define it for me. I can expect your answer in the debate on 23. And more. With these limbs, with a growth of the economy of 5%, with a similar unemployment rate in the prepandemic, with a budget that invests 1.6 billion euros, how can we say that Euskadi falls apart? And then you talk to me about a lack of rigor. Accept: you've lost an excellent opportunity for the agreement, in a budget that will protect the legislature and the society from 80 percent. You've never introduced any real alternatives, a dialectical criticism and no argument. And this is not the manner of making a difference in the society of euscals, uniting different views, and changing politics. Begira, Josean Rekondo eta Imanol (...), egunotan, orin de la hilabete bat, entzun nien Esanez: "The good way to build a country is the way of Auzolan, of community cohesion. We know that things are not solved by matxinadas, by taking La Bastilla, that things are solved every day by cooperating with one another." Values that have internalized their party comrades in the City of Gasteiz, where for the third consecutive year they have closed a budgetary agreement. If in this institution they have been able to put citizens above all interests, why have they not carried out this same exercise of responsibility and realism here? He believed, Eta amaitzeko, legebiltzarburu andrea, I think there are many things in common that could have been worked. The commitment to powerful public services, to a modern and competitive economy, to quality jobs, to a just and supportive society. All those values that you defend have your reflection on this project. And if they hadn't given up negotiating, they could have backed up more. Eta, zuen azken baimentxoarekin, president andrea. Finally, allow me to invite you to look around in this Parliament and to be truly aware of your loneliness or rather of the fellow travellers who have chosen to reject this budget. I will tell you, you have chosen the People's Party-Citizens and Vox and forgotten about Euskadi. I encourage them to move in the next few exercises, get out of that frame and work with us and us to make Euskadi an increasingly better country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u41	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. After we're done arguing, we'll vote for the legal project that gets back to him or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 12; the opponents are 62; abscessions, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u42	So it doesn't come back to the Law Project. Next, vote explanation. Gather the EH team, Mrs. Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u43	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good noon, everyone. The Basque Country has been rejected by the entire budgetal corrections of the 22nd budget. We've made an agreement with the government, by making meaningful improvements in the budgets admitted to de facto, in exchange for a taxation. And it must also be considered, and I believe it is remarkable, that in this case the Absence of the Basque People does not alter the majority. You see, the improvement of the conditions of men's labor and life, and it encourages and encourages public policies in the right direction and in the right direction, is the everyday of the Basque Country, the constant practice of Collecting the Basque People. ... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... It's the day of the Basque Country, the Euscal People, the constant practice of the United States. And we've said it before and we've been honest about it, because we don't think it's the time when this town lives and it's popular enough to give proper answers to the shootings we've faced. There are no public policies for answering the needs of the people at the centre of the business. And this town doesn't have the budget for the amount of modification it needs. Because it requires radical transformations in many respects, and in that sense we believe that the budgets are erroneous, because we need a different pattern. Of course, this budget is still far from what this country needs to face the future with guarantees. But we have managed, from Euskal Herria Bildu we have managed to make it better than the original government project. The major challenges ahead require fine-tuning the diagnoses, setting clear priorities, changing the ways of doing politics, betting on large country agreements and not constantly entangle ourselves in absurd polemics. They demand, demand, truly believe in our country and its future. Eta bai, Azpiazu jauna, borondatea vadin badago, akordioak lortzen will say. Hori da guk uste duguna. Hori ere guk uste dugu, and for the first time in many years we see that the government, we see that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party seem to be beginning to see that this is the right path, which Euskal Herria Bildu has been advocating for many years. Perhaps it is just a flash, because we still see attitudes like Tapia law or so many statements by this Government, but welcome is that flash if it reflects that the Government is beginning to understand how the future should be addressed. These budgets, as I have said, were accepted the first day, but we have shown that they are the budgets that could be improved against what they were saying. The improvements of 253 million million dollars value, for the first thirty million members of the community's life, to face 120 million climate emergency, to ensure the survival of 4's maximum welfare, the most vulnerable people, and, above all, to strengthen the lives of 20 million societies, bringing homes to the first line, I think it's important, and it's usually something that happens in a few years to give birth to 2 million years. We think it's a remarkable improvement. But that's not all, in this part of this town, a mantra of old years or even a tabu has been abandoned. Because we have disputed in the circle of these matters, sometimes without agreement; but because there have been disputes, and disputes about political agreements, which have led us into the midst of them; for this also was possible. In research and development the government will make the largest investment ever made by the Euskal People in the Union, and the government will defend and encourage the need of a minimum wage, and a system to control the rental prices of the housing will be also launched. It's our responsibility to activate all independent resources for the benefit of the citizens, not to claim permission from a public point of view and a country point of view. This arrangement has also been concluded by the great discussion of the independent people which is indispensable to the care of the people. After many years, as has been said, they have begun to understand the real needs of this people, and how they must arrive at it. The government begins with difficulty to understand the method, the exact diagnosis, the arranged projects, the wide agreements, the new modes of making politics. That's the way to gather up the Basque Country that's been insisting on it for a long time and proposing it. And we want to think that even the government has begun to understand that if they don't take that road, the wave of the future will be over them. Not only to the Government, but also to this people. We did not succeed, we did not succeed in penetrating into what is indispensable, and of agreement, although all the countries of the world are engaged in it, an inevitable discussion. We have not made an agreement about the custody, but the people who are not in the centre of the guard are far from what we believe may be understood by democracy. We have not succeeded in agreeing to the measures which, according to the situation in which the eucalyptus lives, would lead to the rule of the whole communal camp. We won't succeed, but we won't give up because there are a lot of arguments in this country that are necessary. In our country, the door is open to keep building the future of this people, with all the parts and motives that seek to build this town. No disposition to respond to the needs of the people. Today, I've heard more than once during this session without leaving anybody behind, really, without really leaving anybody behind. And for this we must make radical changes, radical changes. We won't give up not leaving anybody behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-14.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. Remind the spokesman that we have a spokesman's commission next. The meeting ended at one and twenty o'clock in the afternoon.
