ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. And we will begin with the declaration of the parliamentary laws against the attacks of women. The Eusunian law strongly disapproves of the murder of Mrs. Erika Tvares, who has been the victim of another alleged act of violence against women. The parliament presents its support and sympathy to the relatives of the victim and to the former. The Basque Parliament condemns the violent death of Erika Tavares, committed in Vitoria-Gasteiz, as well as any manifestations of violence or sexual discrimination against women. We understand that gender-based violence is the most serious expression of inequalities between women and men arising from women's power and submission relationships. The Basque parliament demands the people of the country to adopt personal and collective commitments to the equality of women and men. In like manner, these institutions, as a responsibility to wrest it from us, require that we should be satisfied with the means necessary to make the violence of women disappear once and for all, so that there will be no other act of violence against women, and still less murder, such as Erika Tavares's wife's life has carried away. After that, we'll have a minute's silence. [[One minute's silence]] Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I inform you that the two lords and ladies have adopted the vow of motherhood on account of fatherhood. First point in theme list: "A second change of law for the equality of women and men is the correction of the whole work proposed to the bill of law. The discussion and the vote. "Mingorn has the word to introduce the bill." Representative of the Misto team has the word to take advantage of its full correction. He mustn't speak. So, we're going to the vote. There's no vote because it stops, so he's not defending it. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of the CORA CORRODS OF THE EHGR, concerning the damages caused by the rate of the rate of energy. Discipline and final resolution. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... introduced by the members of the legislature, about the damages caused by the increase of the rate of energy supply. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mr. Otero, is your word to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u1	Yes, good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia, good morning, even to you. Today, about what's going on with the amount of electricity, including, in our opinion, a robbery and a sphinx, and we're here to discuss the confused state of energy with several proposals. First of all, let me celebrate an anniversary, because you probably don't remember very much, but today it's 10 years since President Patxi López, Texas in helmet, announced that they had made a magic discovery for the self-recognition of Basque energy, and so on. In the course of a year, there were almost 15,000 people in Gastian streets, and in another year, more than 100,000 citizens were protected, a law was introduced here as a legislative nation. Well, I think the end of the fracing came by the popular impulse, and well, as far as I had the honour and pleasure to participate in it, I think it's worth celebrating the 10th anniversary, isn't it? We have often said, even when the motives are made, that the same arguments are at last made and used in interpelations. But I think it's a little different this time because every last two weeks, and every week, almost every day, we're getting major news around the rate of energy around the power price, about the power price, about the size of the government and the expression of everyone. It's said it's proved when the pot's on fire. And I think that the increase of the rates of energy has aroused all the alarm, and the state of consumers, especially the most vulnerable, but also the most difficult, and the most productive of industry, and we are beginning to see the halts, and that our present state of economic tendency is striking the general economic tendency. And now, in Congress of Madrid, the decree to maintain the appeal of the prices that are being discussed has raised a great fire. I would say more than fire, a precise measure, namely, that the advantage of great electrocutions has raised a war. And the great electrocutions, the Ibedron, and the incluso Galán himself, who have been a general captain in this war, have used threatening, blackmail, and dirty game, to show that their profits will be beyond anything else. And when this situation, and this situation reaches its end, I think it's proved by the arrival of all of us. And it seems to me also that the Jedict Party of the Euric has chosen for whom in this war the electric Party is on its side, of course for the electricians. But this, both the people and even the Françoisan industry, in some measure supposes to be left behind, and I shall continue with it. Before, I want to talk about our motion. And I must say we have a point of wonder because yesterday Mrs. Tapia, after the Government Council, said that the Government will not do anything, of course. But to me, to-day, that there are no amendments on the part of those parts which maintain the government, I think, in the proposed cause, it leaves us a remarkable privation. Nosultia insólito que ayer Tapia diga que se están poniendo encima de la messe unmontón de cuesmentes, y los grupos que sotien al Gobierno san incapas de traer un un sola propuesta a Chama. We've brought precise proposals, as we predicted in the interpelation. And we've signed the media with Podemos, and we want to thank him, it's been easy. With the others, EAJ and PSE, there has been no medium, no proposal, but well. Harritzekoa izan daiteke proposed menik ez ekartzea, edo ez, ze, zera, PPko kide berri den Gordillori, Azpiazuk argi utzi zion, Batzuetan parliamentary lamb, which the government has no intention of taking action. The Government does not intend to take action in this regard in the face of the escalation of light. And he was saying more. He said the effect is going to be small. I'd tell him, Azpiazu, he's been drunk, he's lost the definition, the crystal ball, and we have to clean it more often. Because of course, if you make those diagnoses, then it's logical that we're in these, isn't it? We have brought the proposals in three directions; one, looking at the vertigo of prices, Brusel and Madrid, I shall at last leave it to myself; another, looking at the Middle Ages, which is an important work of middle-term, and another which, if you like, enters into our jurisdiction, is to look at the earthly well-being, or, if you like, to look at the mergetic poverty. Those connected with the neurotic transition, as I have said, will not have a sudden effect, but they may have an important effect on the middle term. And here, we're asking you to give us a push to the community's enginematic autosumption, give people that push in general, but here, Podemos has something to do with making a special work for the corporations, isn't it? We also ask that, in the middle of the time, the administration should be operational, because we don't understand how the accounts agreed in the intelligible law are not yet accepted, this value of 100 million euros. And we think, too, of the situation... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... The bill agreed on the law isn't accepted, that 100 million dollars fund. And we believe, too, that a public marketer would be allowed to tell in the middle term. And at least that should be examined. It's very important, and you'll have to explain why you'll say no, if that's your position today. The proposals to the neurotic welfare are two. One must, as we have often said, be a law of my own well-being, and that, as a measure of servitude, we must take measures to smooth our poverty, which is connected with energy, and that the protection systems ought to be strengthened. And I want to explain this a little more. In this parliament, we've had a chance to discuss long enough about the poverty associated with energy in the Basque Country's initiative. And it must be said that even before the covida, the crack of our social cohesion is a remarkable breach of extreme poverty. And in the data, it's clear that the rising of the indicators around the housing has been speccular since 2008. In the meantime, in the midst of the indifferents, the number of people who have not enough resources to have the right temperature in their houses to deal with expenses has gone up. And we're talking about almost 200,000 people's privacy experience. And, on the other hand, poverty is one of our black points in the test of data. And our data is worse than those of Europe and state. Pandemia seems to have failed to improve this data. Aldrebes. And with the increase of the power price, of course... The degradation is expanding, and the capacity or lack of capacity to resist essential supplies has become a source of difference. And our backup system is not being able to answer the situation. And there's no lack of jurisdiction here. We believe that in respect of our political choice for a worthy and lasting life, the fundamental supplies should be supported by a right. And from this conviction we now discussed a few months ago the proposal of the law of the right of the religious well-being, which wanted to be a key, a new subjective right, to have some of my own well-being or minimum. We received your refusal, but we believe that the present state confirms the necessity of starting that path. And that's why we've also proposed this evening's motion. But even as long as this subjective right of my own welfare is designed and started, there is something to do with the measures centered in the transfers of the rectangles. Or we have had this discussion in this legislature before now. And the most important tools in the Euscal Autonomia Eremia are the aids of social distress, AES, and almost the only ones, that and the little game fit for the Red Cross. And maybe it's all right to remember that we had to wait 2017 to anticipate, by an agreement obtained in the legislature in 2015, the poverty of social emergencies as a deliberate expense. And from that time on, the maximum amount set in this concept has been frozen at 900 euros a year. And look at the price development. And, starting to remember, the Basque Country has been revealed to us, the amount of additional preparation for the housing has not been updated for years, and, besides, the amount of its income has been decreased, and, of course, we have the restrictions of the rent. And all this reduces the support of the eupscal protective system. And therefore, with long light, to the right of earthly well-being (what is the meaning? ) Though we propose the means of opening it, yet, in short, those tools which we have at EAAE to reality, we are obliged to adapt them to necessity. When the subject has hitherto been brought to this legislature, the groups supporting the Government have told us that there was no need for such enterprises. Even when reality is so fat it will be. Because reality is passing us over. And we have a very fat problem. Because before the price escalation and before the covid, this already affected about 200,000 people, who are increasingly affected. And doing nothing or staying with the tools we have, knowing that they are insufficient, for us, should not be an option. But the principle of realism will also be won by the whole majority of you today. And the increase of prices seems to suggest that you say "no" to improve the situation of the people who live without control. And maybe the worst part is that you're not just gonna say "no" to our suggestions, but that there wasn't a single one on the rating of Tap last night, and that there wasn't any of the predictable consumers. It's a completely abandoned matter. Although yesterday the European Committee, the European Commission, announced that the price of energy, to pay energy bills, was to provide emergency aids. Here's your chance to accept it today. And finally, even if it's our jurisdiction, I think it's important to end what I've started, because, as I said now, there's a measure that's been arguing. And there have been so many measures inside it. We said, and we'll vote for Madrid, that it would still have done more, but the measures taken by Madrid's government are in good order, and that there is especially one. There is one that is especially interesting, which is the cut in illegitimate profits, the extraordinary benefits that have been produced by the extraordinary rise in gas price that, as I said the previous time, the price of gas or rise can explain that the price that general light through gas is expensive, but what does not in any case explain that all electricity is expensive. This is generating billion-dollar profits, billion-dollar billions of euros. And as soon as the measure to cut those billion-dollar profits, which would be approximately 2.6 billion euros, has been put on the table, a war has been opened. A war has been opened from the electrics, with the threat of nuclear closure, with the threat of disinvestment in renewable energies, with the purchase of politicians, and we will see if with the manipulation of the different sources of generation to artificially increase... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... in renewable energies, with the purchase of politicians, and we will see if with the manipulation of the different sources of generation to artificially increase prices. Gerra batan gaude, éta kontsumitzaileak eta industria gera honoren gatibu dago. Atzo Estebanek esaten zuen, Aitor Estebanek Madrilen esaten zuen "that they do not like electrics to use rams to companies". What Aitor Esteban knows well, and he did not say, is that the industries, the great electric, are using all the rams that he has available to double the government's will to retouch those illegitimate benefits. And what Aitor Esteban did not say either is that one of the main rams, right now, facing the strategy of the big electrics, is the PNV. It's the PNV. Then, in the replica, I'm going to follow up a little with this if you want. But the PNV strategy throughout this story is being fully aligned and fully accompanied to favor the interests of the big electrics. In my view, in our view, there is no point in questioning legal certainty when renewables could have had legal certainty if they had been at the entrance to the long-term auctions offered by the Government. It makes no sense that yesterday Aitor Esteban speaks of measure simplifies the cuts of the illegitimate profits of the companies, when right now it is the most effective mechanism and the one that will have the most impact on the reduction of the electricity tariff. And for me, from the salad of proposals that came out, I have read the communiqué, I have not heard the statements of Arantxa Tapia, but I have read the communiqué of the analysis of the Governing Council. Turns out the star measure, and even though it's been picked up by the media like this, is that it passes... all charges are paid by the State. And this is, for me, especially perverse. First, because the reduction of charges was precisely the objective of collecting illegitimate profits, that is, that those illegitimate profits that companies are having will be collected by the State and will be dedicated to paying the charges, which is where, logically, this money would have to come from. However, Arantxa Tapia, yesterday, what it proposes is a very different thing, that the State should take direct charge of these charges to lower the electricity bill. He said "business." I understand what I meant by everyone. And he said 40-45%, when I think he meant 20%, because it's 20% the charges, the other 20% are the tolls, and of course we wouldn't go in there, but then we can discuss it later.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u2	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u3	Yes, I'm done, right away. But the key to the whole story is that if the state and budgets, which in the end is where the money is going to come from, and the budgets are going to come out of everyone's money, that is, we would all end up paying a tariff subsidy for everyone, but also for the industry, and we would keep intact the illegitimate profits that industries are charging. That's the play. What happens is it's a little hard to explain. By the time you know, because the issues of electricity are complicated. Let's see what you're talking about, and then we'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Popula-Ciudados, Mrs. Larrea, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u5	Good morning, everyone. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety because we do not share what EH Bildu has tabled. It does not really envisage concrete actions to lower the real price of the electric bill. And look, I'll explain it to you. You, at the first point in your motion, speak of electricity producers receiving only fair remuneration. The problem is that statement. What's fair? Who decides whether or not it is? This claim is unacceptable, as it opens the door to pricing by technology, without taking into account the actual cost of the producing companies. And look, at point number two, you're talking about the consumer profile, the self-consumption. Vulnerable consumers have nothing to do with the use of self-consumption, they are two different types of profiles, and this measure in no way favours consumers who cannot pay the bill. And I'm going to tell you more, self-consumption goes in relation to the energy sovereignty policies that EH Bildu always talks about in order to be independent of the producers of the network, but that the only thing that has been independent is reality. At point number three, you talk about doing... to wait for a law... Let's see, citizens need solutions now. In our proposal we have increased aid to vulnerable consumers, and that can be done quickly and can be ready before the arrival of winter. In his motion, the points four a, b and c go in this direction. Then we can talk about what... of the 100 million euros of the Energy Sustainability Law promoted by the Nationalist Party, which we do not understand why it has not already done so, since, I say again, you were the driving force behind this law. And then you talk about a public marketer. A public marketer is a company that buys energy at market price and sells it to consumers at a price that gives them profit margin. Marketers do not change the price of the market, so creating a price would not lower the price of light in any way. If what it suggests is that a trader has to sell at a loss, this presents a problem with competition and can be considered an illegal activity. With regard to social aid, Basque citizens have three aids: the Thermal Social Bonus, emergency aid and the fight against poverty – which is an aid given by the Red Cross. And look, I'm going to tell you, regarding the Thermal Social Bonus, as of September 30, 2021, users or recipients still do not charge the 2020 benefit, which, on the other hand, is... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... in September 2021, users or recipients still do not receive the 2020 benefit, which, on the other hand, is a national aid, but good, if it really is for vulnerable users, because they have not yet received it. This situation should cause us to reflect on the effectiveness of the aid if it is one year late. As we see in our amendment as a whole, we need to guarantee and improve aid, because the average amount of the Thermal Bonus is EUR 74 for a whole year. And it is true that from Euskadi these aids are envisaged in order to reach very few and the amount of truth that is insufficient. According to the Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy in 2021, the Thermal Social Bonus in Euskadi increases its allocation by 12% when the cost of electricity has doubled and the number of beneficiaries has multiplied. We need to make more efforts to ensure that this winter no Basques remain unable to turn on heating due to lack of resources. Aid to alleviate energy poverty is very limited. According to a survey of Basque families and households, prepared by the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy of the Basque Government in 2019, 161,576 people declared that they had insufficient resources to pay for electricity and gas bills or butane candy. By 2020 the aid reached between 51,000 and 68,800 people, as these emergency aid is complementary. We believe that if we expand the power up to 15 kilowatts for the domestic consumer we can get more people with difficulties in paying the bill for light to access the Social Bonus. It is a concrete measure that can be implemented and that would help many families, which is why we have tabled it in our amendment. We would reach large families and young people who share flats, because these are the users who see increased contracted power. The initiative that Bildu brings us today does not ask to amend the Royal Decree Law by which from 1 January 2022 VAT will rise from 10% to 21%. We call for the amendment of Law 31/1992 so that the 10% reduction in VAT is permanent and that it can converge with the rest of the European countries. In our initiative we urge the Government of Spain to simplify the invoice to facilitate its understanding. We urge the Government of Spain to abolish the VAT on electricity production and the special electricity tax. We urge the Government of Spain to amend Law 24/2013 on the electricity sector so that certain regulatory costs that are transferred to the electricity bill are fully financed from the state budgets. We urge to decouple the regulated tariff from the wholesale market volatility of electricity, as it is being applied in other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I really encourage you to vote in favour of our amendment, because it is really the only one that offers an immediate reduction in the cost of electricity billing to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mist team shouldn't speak. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u7	Well, good morning. We are dealing with a debate which, of course, has recently become fundamental to the life of the citizens and also of the industrial productive fabric of this country. And we are basically faced with two well-found positions – if we speak in terms of war, as Mr Otero said – and it is that there is a part here, a number of parliamentary groups that have made a bitter defense – and in recent times, moreover, increasingly virulently – in defense of an energy oligopoly that is blackmailing and threatening a democratically elected government as regards the measures it has taken, and then a number of parliamentary groups that consider that this blackmail and these threats, in relation to the measures that the coalition government wants to implement, are an affront to consumers, consumers and industry. And to come out cynically proposing that what needs to be done is a reduction of the invoice through and under the budgets in order not to harm the industry, I say again that, to us, it seems very cynical because that reduction of the invoice that is affirmed vis-à-vis the consumer, the consumer will also end up paying it through the coffers. Of course, through the formula that the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have proposed, which certainly does not lose is the energy oligopoly, that never loses, citizenship loses in one way or another, either by paying the bill or, where appropriate, through the coffers by means of the tax withdrawal or, where appropriate, by deriving the situation of the bill and the increase in the cost in the budgets. The reality is that it is true that we are living in a situation that is structural, an energy auction system that generates that we pay for the water at the price of whisky and the reality is that this situation will have to be adapted at some point. We are paying the rise in the price of gas, in relation to the rest, too, of energy. And, in turn, we also have a lack of self-sufficiency and sovereignty in the generation of our own energy in our country, which further deepens the problem, and in crises like the one we are experiencing right now, these structural weaknesses become even more acute. But, of course, for our parliamentary group, for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida, what has to be given is a co-responsibility between energy companies and the public administration; what cannot be eliminated from the equation is the responsibility of energy oligopoly. And we believe, moreover, that there are formulas, and we have also insisted on them, to... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...energy. And we also believe that there are formulas, and we have insisted on them, to have greater operational capacity when it comes to acting on the energy market. And one of the proposals that we believe in in the transaction is more..., it is more relevant, is the need to address an approach of constitution of a public energy company, or, if so, as it also appears in the transaction, through the EVE, that it also acts, in addition to as a generator of own energy, as a marketer. And to the extent that it generates its own energy and in turn commercializes with it we may not be so dependent on an energy oligopoly that we will see if it does not effectively distort even the logics of the market if they are not already sufficiently diverted. In any case, also with regard to certain statements made in the last few days by members of the Basque Nationalist Party or even by Mrs Tapia, we believe that the measures that have been put forward are in no way going to solve the problem that is currently on the table. We believe that threatening even or insinuating even as was done in the Congress of Deputies that the decree if it is not adapted under the premises of the interest of oligopoly, even the coalition government may fall, seems to us to be a tremendous irresponsibility. I imagine that in these statements there is also reason to believe that we do not have an agreed text between the Socialist Party and the PNV right now in so far as they can hardly, I understand, the members of the Socialist Party accept the premises that the PNV is currently marking at the state level, both in the Congress of Deputies and publicly in relation to the decree that will be debated today in the Congress of Deputies. And in this sense, we would indeed invite the Socialist Party, in its case, that we are convinced that if it had had the capacity and freedom to do so, it would have presumably negotiated and agreed on a common text with, in this case, EH Bildu and us and ourselves. To say that... and in this sense I want to go to certain of the measures proposed by Mrs Tapia, we believe that in the same logic as the PP and Citizens, because they again propose that the solution goes through a tax reduction and that the burdens are assumed in the General Budgets of the State. And basically that is the formula they propose, exactly the same as the PP and that Citizens, and I understand that in that sense even as they can support the initiative of the parliamentary group PP and Citizens. Mrs Tapia also said yesterday that she called for a forward-looking market, but we are afraid that it will be a flat rate that will always play in favour of oligopoly, because in the same way as in the case of bilateral contracts at the moment, it is certain that oligopoly when it considers it will renegotiate that flat rate for its own benefit. And in this regard, we believe that, well, it will remain unaffected by the co-responsibility of energy companies in the problem of rising the bill. In addition, it also called on the European Commission to promote the use of natural gas resources. We don't know if... and besides, this is what's been smothered. I don't know if we're going to put Armentia's gas back on the table or what, if we're going to link the issue of energy sovereignty to the need to explore gas in Armentia. And then, on the other hand, if we read between lines not only with regard to yesterday's statements, but with what has been happening in recent times in relation to the Basque Government's model with regard to energy, to say that for us it again affects a model to benefit certain... to a certain conglomerate composed of Repsol, Petronor, Grupo Mondragon, Iberdrola, Bahía de Bizkaia and Nortegas. In fact, when we talk about the energy efficiency of buildings, what we think is said between lines is that we use European funds for rehabilitation for the benefit of the Opengela Foundation, formed by the Basque Government and Repsol. In turn, also when it comes to generating renewable energies of all kinds, what we understand is that Ekiola's self-consumption projects, formed by the Mondragon Group and the Basque Government, are favored, and in which Repsol also indirectly participates through the company Ekiluz. And we also believe that when trans-European electricity and gas connections are processed or proposed, we believe that gas companies such as Nortegas and Bahía de Bizkaia and the rest of the oligopoly are once again favored to continue the gas business in our country, and we believe that this is not the model. This, which has been the policies of the last years of the Basque Government to promote and bring to completion the private public initiative in relation to this type of investment, then results in that when it comes to defending energy, because the Government, in this case of coalition, wants to draw a decree that limits and covers its extraordinary and illegitimate benefits, because we understand that that is where the PNV operates, and of course, the fruit of all these businesses that it has been developing over the last few years, because it has to come out in defense obviously of the oligopoly, without mention, that it would also be a separate chapter, and that we can probably do so in the reply if it arises, in relation to the revolving doors, which we also understand that it operates and in good way, in the articulation of the position of the Basque Nationalist Party in relation to the decree that is to be processed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing over to the non-correction teams, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonsso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u9	Madame Chair, President, good morning to all. Well, one more time... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u10	Madame Chair, President, good morning to all. Once again, Mr Otero brings us an interesting, exciting but very complex subject for debate here today in this House. A long time ago I was warned by a good economist friend, he said to me: "If you have been explained how the bill for light works and you have understood it is that you have been misexplained." Then, warning of the complexity of this issue and also warning that the one who speaks to them is not an expert in the matter, because he would like to deepen, not only in the causes, but in some of the obvious and not so evident consequences that this escalation of the price of electricity can bring, in order to end up making a reflection on what has been done and what should be done. Well, speaking of causes, some are already more than obvious. In the interpellation he had... What happened here last week we had the opportunity to listen to both Mr Otero's vision and Mrs Otero's vision on the different issues. For example, the issue of gas. That whenever we talk about the price of gas we move in that slippery terrain of geopolitics, in which it is so difficult or almost impossible to act quickly and effectively. The second cause that I believe is worthy of some thought is the price of CO2 emissions rights. I think it is also time to reflect on what seems to be a speculative bubble, when something, a tool that served to try to channel and direct the ecological transition has in some way become a tool for the enrichment of investment funds that are simply entering mere speculation without any interest other than the immediate and rapid enrichment and profitability of their capitals. I think it requires some thought if this market at European level is working or we need to think about it. And finally, within the causes, the one that I think is somehow getting more topical, which is the complex structure of the calculation of the cost of energy. That above has, as the professor of economics Natalia Fabra warned long ago, has that kind of virtuality to seem like a multiplier effect, because the variations that occur in the production of the most expensive energy, which nevertheless represents 10% of the total energy production, that variation, when applied to the rest of the productions, because it generates a multiplier effect. And to small variations in the gas they end up being passed on to the whole and multiplied by expanding. I think this is a question, of course, which has to make us think, it has to make us reflect. And of course where is, possibly, the quickest, most immediate action to be able to direct this situation. Moving on to the chapter on consequences. Some are obvious. They've been talking here today, they've been talking in the press since... since I have been creating since the summer, since August, September, everywhere, the question of the risk of increasing energy poverty, social exclusion. Also, of course, and there is a lot of talk lately, about the risk that we run of compromising the competitiveness of our companies. We should also talk about the blackmailing of some large companies which have captives to the most energy-consuming companies and which we certainly cannot accept. But I would also like to talk about a consequence that may have been more veiled, but that in the middle and the long run may be very important, and it is the risk of not sending the right message to the citizenry. Minister Teresa Ribera warned: "Consumers do not understand the reason why efforts in the deployment of renewable energies do not translate more directly and immediately into cheaper light bills." Possibly these issues, these debates are also sending the wrong message to citizens, who are hardly going to bet on the electrification of the economy seeing what is constantly falling on them. As you see, Mr. Otero, things you see. Its defence of the actions of the Spanish Government I believe is a historic milestone also in the history of Basque parliamentarianism. As you can see, our diagnoses are more or less similar and I think we might somehow agree quite well. It is true that you are very typhismic and possibly there are nuances in which we could enter into discussion. But, of course, I think it's a fairly shared diagnosis. What I don't share is the fact that nothing is being done. I believe that from the first minute, and you know it, Mr Otero, from the first minute the Government of Spain has led a series of very important, very important measures, and has put itself on the front line taking... If I may, I will give you a brief review of the different measures that have been taken in recent months. One, the draft law establishing the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Energy System, which will make it possible to reduce progressively the bill for light by removing from the costs of the electricity system the item corresponding to the promotion of renewables. Two, draft law on the creation of a CO2 reduction mechanism for non-stationary power stations. Three, in the same direction, and today very topical because we are debating in the Congress of Deputies, the design of a mechanism to reduce the excessive remuneration caused by the high price of gas in international markets. Four, extension of the suspension of the tax on the sale of electricity production, which, as you well know, was a 7 % tax. Five, a reduction in the excise duty on electricity, from 5.1 to 0.5, which, as you know, is the minimum rate allowed by European legislation. Six, increase by 900 million the limit of the amount collected with European CO2 auctions to cover electricity system costs. Seven, auctions of non-broadcasting technologies. Eight, approval of the minimum vital supply, which protects the most vulnerable consumers. Electrical companies will not be able to interrupt the supply in case of non-payment, in addition guaranteeing a minimum power of comfort. Nine, amendment of the Water Act to regularize embalmed water, recognizing it as a major social and environmental asset. Ten, holding of the first renewable auction. Eleven, call for next auctions. A second auction of 3,300 megawatts will be held on 19 October. Twelve, more than EUR 300 million has been earmarked for the financing of innovative renewable projects. And thirteen, a reduction in VAT from 21 % to 10 % until 31 December. This will have a direct impact on 27 million households, self-employed and businesses. And yet, I also have to tell you, I have to tell all of you, that much remains to be done. Much remains to be done. And the socialists... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... of households, self-employed persons and enterprises. And yet, I also have to tell you, I have to tell all of you, that much remains to be done. Much remains to be done. And we Socialists are absolutely convinced that this challenge, which is not only short-term, but structural, needs more Europe; more Europe and a more social Europe. That is why, from the very beginning, the minister, Teresa Rivera, also took the lead in the demands within the European Union. It is true that today we have had breakfast with a somewhat lukewarm news, and let us hope that the election results and a new social democratic government in Germany will allow us to be more ambitious in the social context as well in the European context. But those demands made by the Government of Spain could be summed up in two fundamentals. One is the need for a European platform to centralise the purchase of natural gas, as well as to facilitate the creation of strategic reserves. And, two, the necessary reform of the wholesale electricity market so that fossil fuels are not the ones that mark the price and thus be able to transfer to consumers the benefits of the cheapest renewable technologies. Much is at stake in this debate. I insist, some of these measures are before or on 1 June, before this great storm of electricity prices. For the absolute conviction that it is a structural step that we have to take and that we cannot leave at all parked on a dock waiting for better times. It's time for all of us to tie our shoulders, but all of us. According to the effort and according to the benefits that each and every one of us seeks. No one, however legitimate his interest, can pretend to blackmail the citizens, nor their representatives, who are us and us. Resistance to change is a legitimate reaction. However, trying to stop a necessary transition is nothing more than a clumsiness that society will hardly be able to understand. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u11	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of the legislature, friends, chief officers, all good days. He said a German philosopher whose name I don't want to remember – a rather bold German philosopher, to say the least, was first Nazi and then father of the conservative revolution in the UK – that if in the domain of aesthetics the main debate is between beautiful and ugly, in the domain of ethics the fundamental debate is between good and bad, in the domain of politics the fundamental debate is between friend and enemy. And, curiously, despite the carcass of that German philosopher whose name I still do not want to remember, that one in the key in which this side of this House works. These are my enemies, and besides, all my enemies are friends among them. And I've filed a motion here, and Mr. Otero feels hurt because we haven't answered him. And that turns out we don't have a project. No, look, we're getting to know him. We saw what the interpellation was like, because forms in politics also matter. You come, ask the counselor, the counselor answers you and you make all your intervention, not on the basis of what the counselor has answered you, but on the basis of what you have not told you. And then today brings us a motion that has ultimately resulted in a debate in which the problem has been overcome. The Spanish Government does everything well, you support them, they obviously support themselves, and we will see how the day unfolds, we will probably also support them. You insist on that enemy friend vision, the right, the left. Mr Soto, we have already had something to do with the development of this royal decree. Anyway, why don't you present something? Don't you have any arguments? Many arguments, Mr Otero, you already know that we could keep talking. Even tomorrow, the Counsellor, as you have also announced, will make public a series of measures that she announced yesterday. In any case, in our opinion, we believe that it is not the time here and in this House, because I say the Government of Spain makes it wonderful, honey on leaflets, everything forward, and it turns out that the Government, which has no capacity to directly affect the prices of light, is guilty of all evils. A, no, not the government, sorry, the PNV, because in his vision of enemy friend, my enemy is friend of my other enemy. And, then, we have not tabled an amendment to your proposal, first of all, because we believe that the confrontation between the actors involved in the price of light, which is what you are doing, should not be fuelled. Let's be friends or enemies, probably neither. We believe that we must not offer simplistic and victimistic views on this issue, but try to be active agents in the solution. It's just that the solution wasn't in this house, you've come to something else today. It is constantly clear that we are facing a global problem that affects the whole problem. Not only that, there are still those who take the liberty of attacking the adviser by replicating exactly what the European Union said yesterday. Today it's all PNV's fault. The PNV, the oligopoly, the oligopoly, the PNV. In other institutions, in recent weeks we have seen that the Socialist Party and the People's Party were also, not created, taking their share of responsibility. But today we were coming to something else. And also, in the development of the motion, in our view, there is a certain lack of knowledge about the complexity of the energy cost formula. As Mr. Alonso said, it's complicated, it's complicated. But if to defend our positions we have to move to political demagogy or make a biased reading of the announcements that this government, that government, the companies... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... we have to move to political demagogy or make a biased reading of the announcements that this government, that government, the companies, or any actor we have already placed on the plane of enemies, because we have it complicated. Because here, well, to a greater or lesser extent, I insist, beyond undefined generalist proposals, that we are in an international situation of high energy prices, and that they influence the markets. But in every country, huh? Then, if you want, we talk about what it costs to produce energy here or in others, and then what the price goes up. That is also happening in a context of recovery after the COVID-19 crisis, in which the price of allowances is still likely to take time to stabilize, is it not? In one thing I believe we all do, and that is that we need shock measures to control the price of light immediately. You'll have to see how, where. During these days, the influence of Eukadin's rate in industry has been shown: the motor of the economy and the columns of our state of well-being. Anyway, I'm sure it's because of the energy costs that worry you don't only concern the industrial zone, because we know that part of society can be in a very complicated situation. And even there, we must take measures, all the institutions in common, from the field of pretty societies, which must be overlooked. But, I think, today, debat is spending most of it in the field of industry. And then it depends on the conditions in which industry acquires energy, and the increase of prices endangers the convalescence and employment. That's right, we all know that. And the consequence of the manner in which this discussion is debated will be how our factories will advance. The increase of the cost of energy brings us face to face with our contradictions, and the strategy to defend our industrial reality must be proposed. I'm sure you're not just a lookout, even though you don't have any jurisdiction. And we shall not conceal from the formation of the price of energy, which belongs to others (revolved? .). We're in Madrid, negotiated, and we'll see what's going on there. But it is also for us, because we are many, because the electroncies are in our countries, and it is for us because they are our jobs. Even Mr. Otero, on the first point of his initiative, demands that. But to me, at first, it is not very clear whether he was talking about the price of the producers, or whether he meant the price and cost of energy. If they don't mean electricity producers, what does that mean? Did you agree with what they received a year ago? For us, a year ago, we were saying that a lot of change in the energy billing had to be done, and structural, and wherever we could. And wherever we can, not wherever we want. Of course, we can all come here to tell you what we would like to tell you, but we must consider the legal frame, and, if our party is in a government, still more. Even more. Because we are talking about job maintenance, the future of the economy, increased tax collection and social policies. But it is clear that something must be done about the price of electricity; that decisions must be taken. But all the consequences of these decisions must also be taken into account. This last decree law, we also value it positively, has very positive measures. Besides, we think it's done with the best will in the world. And not only with regard to the domestic consumer, but also with regard to industry. But, I see, if electrics pass on their losses to fixed contracts for industrial customers, we are faced with a problem. We are also faced with a problem with a view to the future. Needless to say, it is true, what has happened these days with the compensation they have received for similar issues 10 years ago. What worries us is that some companies are already stopping their production, and that this brings us to new ERTE. Therefore, we say that, in agreement with the basis of that royal decree law, we must clarify things. And it is necessary to prevent those companies that have diversified energy sources from playing at their will with them in order to derive as much benefit as possible. And it is not acceptable, it is not acceptable, that electricians use companies as a ram for their own interests. But it is also true that for this there are no magic solutions, as everywhere else, there are no simple solutions to complex problems. First – and in this I think we will agree although I have heard things that have missed me a bit – we will agree that the marginalist system used to set electricity prices cannot be changed, because its modification is in Europe's hands. It is that the whole of Europe has a marginal system; the whole of the OECD, I would dare. And if I'm not mistaken, I read yesterday that China is going to assume something similar. It is therefore possible to try to pressure Europe to consider any possible changes. Because the costs, both variable and fixed of the different technologies, today differ greatly from each other. But this is not going to immediately lower the bill. And if we cannot change the marginalist system that is in Europe's hands, nor the tolls because they are in the hands of the National Competition Commission, for I, gentlemen, am sorry about the soul, but we only have to take measures that affect either taxes or charges. And that's what Europe said yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u13	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u14	Yeah, I'm gonna finish. I was gonna... Well, enough. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u15	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing on the answering round, representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u16	- Valerie. I thank you very much, Mr. Grajales... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] vale. I thank you very much, Mr. Grajales, who has taught me that, in politics, how was it?, that there was a philosopher I don't know if it was German who said that in politics the first equation that had to be solved was the equation of who was a friend and who was an enemy. Here are the friends-enemys. And it turns out that everyone's getting into that political equation. But it's also curious, because the photo has a lot of symbolism, besides the classic. Because this is the last thing that happened before Galán said that what is happening is that there is a terrorist interventionism on the part of the state government. That is, the terrible, the terrifying is not the situation in which consumers are staying, especially vulnerable consumers and the industries they are already affecting. No, no, The terrifying thing is that the government is putting its hands on the fallen benefits of heaven. And I've already warned you today. It is interesting, because this is not a continuation of the arguments or is not a repetition of the earlier arguments. It is that right now we are seeing in Congress the interventions of the parties about the approval or not of the validation of the decree with the measures. And Aitor Esteban in Madrid, right now, has said that the PNV announces abstention. And he announces the abstention, because, as much as you insist that this decree has favorable measures, there is one that you are not willing to go through. And it is the reduction of the extraordinary benefits between the generation costs and the selling costs that the big electrics are having. And that's their dependence on the big electrics and, specifically, on Iberdrola. And that's the axis of your whole strategy in this story. That's why you didn't introduce anything today. That's why you didn't say anything about the proposal we made. That's why you haven't announced the preventives that your struggle is a different one, and that it's the Iberdronian strategy or the assistant. And they're slipping away. And I don't know if it's the subconscious or the conscious or where they are... But you have repeated it again. This was said by Aitor Esteban yesterday. And that is one of the main reasons why they are abstaining in Madrid today. You are saying that the losses, and you just said so, that the losses of electricity companies are impacting them on industrial consumers. And I say, "Lie." They're not losses. They're illegitimate benefits. And I answer Muriel Larrea, talking about what's fair and what's not fair to collect. Today 439,000 megawatts have been negotiated and sold, at an average of 215 euros the megawatt. That's 94 million euros. Just a year ago this was negotiated not at 215 euros, but at 38 euros the megawatt. And they charged, producers, 16 million euros. Today, EUR 94 million. There are 77 million euros of difference. One part is logical, because the gas has risen further, but the gas between combined cycle and cogeneration does not reach 25%. That means that the remaining 75%, which is being generated at the same price as last year or very similar, are illegitimate profits, in particular today around EUR 60 million. Today, today. At this rate, we are going to a falling profits from heaven that are going to be around EUR 10 billion. And the government has said it's going to get his hands on it. And we say that yes, that is fine, but that must be tightened, that there was margin up to 7 billion euros. Even with the handshake, several billion euros of extraordinary profits will be brought. And that's what you just called losses here. And Aitor Esteban called that loss yesterday. They're not losses, they're not losses. And it's not those alleged losses that's impacting on the light bill. No, no, It is, first, the system of marginalist price fixing, which allows the expensive price to be transferred to everyone. And it's true, we have to change it in Europe. I can't hear you say anything about this, neither can the PP. They coincide casually. The PSOE, together with Minister Calviño, with several ministers from Europe, has made this attempt to ensure that it is fairly retributed, which is what we said in our first point, and that I do not understand why the PSE, for example, does not join us today, because we admit votes for points, how not? So it's no good to say that it's due to taxing, because it's already produced, it's almost out of taxes. And the charges must be done through budgets, i.e. through our pockets. No. We all know, you know, and it's because of illegal gain that will shake hands. That's why you're not voting for it today in Madrid. And therefore all the proposals and public expressions that you make. Because at last there's a slave with some people's strategy. And you know what's sad? In the end, there is no place for all of you who are getting out of the administrative councils. He'll be for some, as he's always been, but he won't be for all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u17	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u18	Mr. Grajales said the solution is not in this house. He said that. But what is in this house is to help vulnerable citizens. This is in this house. That is why our amendment goes in this direction. It is in the sense of extending the aid, of extending the kilowatts to which vulnerable people can be welcomed. And, look, I'm gonna tell you something. Also to Mr. Grajales, look, it has made me very funny what... Just a second. Mistakes in politics are paid by all citizens. Therefore, the goodwill with which this decree is made, to which you are going to abstain today, wills do not often solve things. And, with regard to what Mr. Otero says... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... to what you are going to abstain today, wills do not solve things many times. And, regarding what Mr Otero says, look, according to the monthly bulletin of the electricity network, in August 2021, the demand was, the demand for energy, was 0.7% lower than that of 2020. Renewable production grew by 7.1% while non-renewable production decreased by 13.8%. It is therefore shown that prices have risen with lower demand and higher weight than renewables. With regard to the price of CO2 emissions, in the last year, the cost of CO2 emissions has increased by 148.2% compared to the increase of 1.9 in 2020, i.e. from 2019. The higher the price of CO2, the more the government collects with this concept. Therefore, it is true that the price of CO2 increases the... According to the Banco de España, it is responsible for the 20% increase in the price of electricity. With regard to the price of gas, I also share the view that we can say that gas and the price of CO2 increase the bill, the cost of energy, by 70%, the cost of electricity. But what I do not share with you is that the wholesale market should not operate through hourly auctions or the marginalist system. Because, as you said, really last year it was about 38 euros worth of megawattage, and now, today, 215 euros. At the last auction, I've been watching it, too. You also talk about the benefits, the profit margin. See, Iberdrola's profit margin in the first quarter was 8,1 %. The plants, you said in the intervention, in the interpellation, said that Iberdrola was generating in the large swamps at less than ten euros the megawatt and was selling to more than 200, right?, at that time. I will tell you that hydroelectric power plants are a business when they are operating, but they spend more than 90% of the time without doing so, because it is a seasonal energy that depends to a large extent on the existence of water reserves. And the example is Ricobayo, which has been standing for nine months, so it has not been producing for nine months. With this, what do I want to tell you, Mr. Otero? What do we have... The measures that you are supporting in the Government of Spain, in the end what you are taking us to is a drift for which citizens are paying more for their bill. That the solution is on your roof. That they could use the tax that is being collected by CO2 and that they could use it to lower the citizens' bill. And what citizens need is an immediate discount on the bill. They can't live anymore. We are creating, generating and living many more citizens in Euskadi who suffer from energy poverty. That this winter they won't turn on the heating because they won't be able to heat their houses, because they won't be able to pay the bill. And this is the great drama. We will put in place immediate efficient measures for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u20	Okay. Well, good again. I am surprised by that way of throwing the ball at the roof of others and saying, well, since the competition framework here does not work, we cannot comment on whether the marginal system is adequate or not adequate, whether it is fair or not fair, because I have not heard the PNV say about that. I know what the People's Party believes, that it is fair and absolutely legitimate for energy oligopolies to take advantage of this particular system. But I didn't listen to the PNV. What I have heard from the PNV is that it is going to abstain. It's just that he's going to abstain in the Royal Decree today. And because of a very clear question, and also that here it has already been put on the table, which is the intervention – term that also uses the PNV – in relation to the extraordinary benefits of electrics. It is the only quid of the Royal Decree that does not share the Basque Nationalist Party. That is to say, as far as the substance is concerned, what the PNV does not share is that the energy oligopoly becomes responsible for the rise in prices at the moment. Those who assume full responsibility at the moment for the rise in prices should be the Administration, the State, the citizenry, but not the energy oligopoly. That is the crux of the question, which precisely contradicts the last part of the speech of the spokesman for the Socialist Party, which has said precisely that going in the direction contrary to what the times mark and to what the citizenry asks will bring with it what it will bring with it. In addition, the Socialist Party raised the need to modify the marginal system in the first place and it has been said at other levels. And that's how he moved him to Europe. That is the crux of the matter and is where there is a flaw in the agreement between the Socialist Party and the PNV, and the fundamental reason why there has not been a proposal here today from the parliamentary groups supporting the Government. And I say again that, for us, the formula, in no case, will be to reflect the increase of the invoice in the tax rebate. Moreover, it is surprising that the People's Party said so when part of the taxes and charges on the bill were introduced by the People's Party at the time. So let the People's Party now come here and say that certain tax elements of the bill must be eliminated, when, at the time, it was you who fixed them, because it seems to us to be an absolute cynicism. It seems to us to be an absolute cynicism. And in these cases, yes, the state has to take care of oligopoly losses, as in its case with financial banking and the financial system the 2008 crisis. In such cases, the public does. But when it comes to a social shield that guarantees the well-being and dignity of citizens, in that case, the public does not operate because it is loss. Finally, clarify yourselves, because we, of course, do not understand you regarding your ideological positioning. And indeed, it is a structural problem which, in many cases, certainly not even within the framework of the State or... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... regarding their ideological positioning. And indeed it is a structural problem which, in many cases, of course, not even within the framework of the State nor here we can attack, we can resolve, in that we agree. Indeed, the European framework and the global and geopolitical situation act and have a substantial impact on what we are experiencing right now, but measures have been put on the table, the spokesman for the Socialist Party has listed some of them and the one that is currently being dealt with in the Congress of Deputies is fundamental. And some of those that are included today in the transaction between EH Bildu and us and we also believe that it is fundamental. We believe that everything concerning the activation of what was also promoted by the Basque Nationalist Party, which is the economic funds for the municipal level in the energy sustainability system, in the Energy Sustainability Act that was passed in the previous legislature, and the funds that must be activated, and to this day have not been activated. Just as we believe that a public energy company that transcends the EVE or, where appropriate, through the EVE is essential, it also acts as a generator of renewable energy, also as a public marketer, which is already taking place in other autonomous communities, which has already been launched in other autonomous communities and which, we believe, should be a priority to do so in Euskadi as well. And our parliamentary group in Congress has also raised it so that it can be done at the state level. So, we believe that solutions and proposals are put on top of the table in the field in which we can act. The only thing he says is that here the one who has to respond to the rise in the prices of the bill of light is the arks, because they are others and others, that we believe that here there has to be a co-responsibility also by who right now is doing all he is doing is blackmailing, threatening and, if necessary, putting nuclear closures or even impacting the cost of the rise or loss of profits that, as has been said, are not, because they are absolutely illegitimate, impacting them in industry. Well, get on the side of the industry. And, if necessary, consider at this time, at this time, as an enemy to oligopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u21	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. I think this second round has made it clearer, if that's all right, what we were talking about. Don't you? Friends? Enemies? And enemies are all friends. Well, that's the level of the debate. I, Mr Soto, do not think of telling me what you can talk about, what you can't talk about in this plenary, it would be good, you can say whatever you want. I'm also telling you, please don't say "the PNV hasn't said." What I'm going to ask you is that you listen to me when I speak, that I am going to ask you, and that you can feel what you want, you can feel what you want, I can also feel many things. But you know what's wrong with me? That I am a party, not me, but that my group supports a Government and there are many things we cannot say because we govern for all and rule from a legal standpoint. Oh, well, look, I'll tell you what. You give me a tremendous envy, that you have to participate in a government, to give it absolutely the same, to defend here what it pleases you, and wide is Castile what the government does or what it stops doing. Anyway, well, all right, nothing that surprises us. Right? I thought – although today obviously the important debate was in Madrid and I did not see very clearly that here we made a reply to it – but I did think in this second part to follow where the previous one had ended, didn't I?, about the changes that would have to be made in taxation. I just didn't make it up myself. It is that there was a panel of experts there for 2017 in which everyone, many parties, were represented, and I believe they gave the keys to reducing the bill, and this supergovernment I believe that in these years it has taken few – or not to say none – of the measures that were proposed there. He has welcomed the B road – which we're going a little late and we'll see how we get there, I say the same as before – I think in the right direction, but well, we'll go see what happens to the National Fund. I'm really worried, I'm worried about these debates, I'm worried that "oh, for oligopoly," "oh, for PNV," "swivel doors." Well, well, if that's your way of doing politics, go ahead. We believe that, in the end, another type of signal must be introduced in households, in companies, in order to decarbonise their energy consumption. That these short-term measures that are being taken and that are going to be taken today must be transformed and go much further, develop a new market, distributed generation, networks of interconnection between consumers, there is also an effort to be made. And that is the debate that was to be held today in Madrid and that we have somehow moved here. We must continue to pursue objectives that are necessary today: to sharpen or relieve that electricity bill and to move forward with a sustainable ecological transition process. But the controversies that we have pointed out also lead us to conclude that the reforms in the energy field, in the energy field to be adopted, must take into account the effects that they may have on competitiveness, equity, territorial and social cohesion. The ecological transition has costs, I always say, and the one who does not want to see it has a problem, which we must assume among all, between society, between the economic and industrial sectors. And if on the road we find that there are income losses for those most vulnerable groups and for sectors whose decarbonisation process is much more complex, slower, we will have to look for more and better compensations, and also accompany them to make these new investments, because, if we do not, of course, we will hardly be able to involve society in this whole process. We also have an opportunity in that regard with European funds, so... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... We will be able to involve society in this whole process. We also have an opportunity to do so with the European funds, so in the face of these barren debates, we, the Councillor, are going to have those measures that you want to take to Europe tomorrow, which you want to take to the state. And of course, as I always tell you, count on us to carry on those in which we can actually focus here, which perhaps that should have been, should have been today's debate, and not to say if anyone is (?) the oligopoly, if someone is an agent at the service of Moscow or if someone is dedicated to taking the brush the Church of St Peter every Sunday, because all the accusations in the end have the same scientific basis. That is what I believe is the debate, and despite this debate and despite its attitude, we in what we can do, in what we can put forward for the benefit of this country, we continue to count on everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. When we're done arguing, we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together we can vote for the middle-direction signed by Podemos Edemos-Nozera. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 72; the supporters 25; the opponents, 47; abstaining, 0; white, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u24	So there's no harm in half-correction. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 72; in favor 6; the opponents, 66; Absences, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u25	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. The missile collapses the team correction for 81.2's article in the Rule. Third point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Elisabet González Rodríguz together by Podemos-Nodemus, a member of the Anizar Party, about the Insecrations of the Poedemus and the Unequalities of 2020. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the proposed team, Mrs. González, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u26	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning congressmen. I can't start talking about childhood without having a memory for the two children who before yesterday were witnesses and direct victims of one more femicide in this city. They were witnessing the murder of their mother, Erika Tavares, Gasteiz's neighbor. Violence against women, but also against boys and girls in a society where machismo continues to find formulas for its expression. We hope that the words and commitments expressed yesterday by the council on support for both children will be effective and from all institutional and social spheres we can accompany these two children and their environment in the recovery and reparation for the violence they have suffered. This motion we are presenting today is intended to be our contribution to the fight against child poverty, which continues to be another form of expression of violence against children, with the right to be a child, with scrupulous respect for their human rights and not to be conditioned on the personal and community development of any child because of structural deficiencies. Among them all are the specific disadvantages faced by children and adolescents in precarious family situations. Those belonging to ethnic minorities, children with functional diversity, those with mental health problems, migrant or transitory children or those requiring alternative care or severely deprived of housing. He said in the interpellation, I remember today, that the last survey of poverty and social inequality in 2020 conducted last summer said that child poverty in Euskadi has increased a point and a half in two years, the highest rate since 2008. And this is only the beginning of what the consequences of this crisis are going to be. I also said in the interpellation that the data for 2020 should be read with caution, but also with courage, because some are very hard and must be interpreted with political will for change. This motion that we bring here today responds to our contribution to that change, because the increase in inequality, even if experienced only by 10% of the population, means that there are neighbours and neighbours of ours who have to choose between eating or paying rent every day, and that there are children who are deeply affected by the vulnerability and precariousness of the home in which they live. Children, mostly affected by school segregation, by the concentration rates of the education system, with those whose families suffer the most from the digital divide, with those living in families who have to choose between buying clothes or heating. And the most serious thing is that there are boys and girls in Euskadi who have acknowledged having gone hungry in 2020. This year we still have a wall of containment that is working, resisting more or less well, but the gap in inequality widens. The crises do not impact equally on the entire population, and all alerts are putting the warning on the impact it will have on children, unless we now strengthen current systems and increase investment. And I would like to highlight here the value of the social shield deployed by the Ministry of Social Rights, which has come to expand the framework of public policies and the approach to children's rights here also in Euskadi. From Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left we are ready to work and make all the necessary efforts to contribute and work towards reaching agreements in this House to eradicate child poverty. That is why today we are going to reach an agreement even though we are aware that we have a bitter feeling of sweetness about the consensus reached. Agrisweet because we consider that... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...knowing that we have a bitter feeling of sweetness about the consensus reached. Agriduce because we believe that – all of you already have the compromise amendment, you can follow point by point – making progress in incorporating the principle of the best interests of the child into all public policies is an important step forward, and that the future law on children's rights must take all necessary steps to ensure that it is implemented. But also that there was a plan approved in the last legislature that should have been carried out and has not yet been done. Secondly, because we welcome the development of a children's guarantee programme for Euskadi, which also adds to the national plan that was being put forward yesterday, its background paper was presented, and which recognizes the importance of multi-level governance for all children to see their fundamental rights protected and promoted. Also, to include the strategic value of the European Social Fund Plus, which allows synergies with other European initiatives and funds. Thirdly, because we welcome the extension of Aukerak Suspertzen by 2022 and progress in improving the socio-economic situation of families with dependent children, prioritizing measures aimed at the digital literacy of families, support for students of vulnerable families with special educational needs or learning difficulties, and free access for children and adolescents to sports, leisure and cultural activities. This represents an advance in the integral well-being of our children and their social inclusion. Especially those who have not been taken into account when the pandemic has dominated everything. As long as the child guarantee programme is being designed, it is imperative that this year's draft budgets include the fight against child poverty as one of its objectives, and as a cross-cutting and coordinated policy from several departments. Fourthly, we agree that the reform of the income guarantee and social inclusion system must improve the protection of the most vulnerable families, and specifically those in which there are minors. But we also believe that an opportunity has been missed to incorporate a common consensus on very concrete demands that we put into our original proposal, such as establishing a clear benchmark or ensuring the specialized training of all Lanbide staff in the application of the best interests of the child. I say another missed opportunity, let's hope that when the bill comes, we can incorporate it. However, there is one point that we have not been able to reach in agreement, and one aspect that was fundamental to us, such as the incorporation of a strategic line on policies for children into the Euskadi Next programme. And, frankly, the Basque Government here will have to explain why it misses this opportunity from funds that are an improvement, can be an improvement for the care and protection of children. And it is not only an assessment by our group, but the text of the European Union's recommendation on child protection itself indicates this. And so are organizations that work with children such as Save the Children Unicef. We will continue to insist and be attentive to the coordination and the fit of the Euskadi children's guarantee program, and we will continue to repeat: in the Next funds children cannot go unnoticed. Substantial reforms must be put in place to eradicate child poverty, and this is only done by increasing family incomes and the social protection system, by improving equity in education, by improving health care, by improving care for the oral health and mental health of children, by shielding the basic rights of children, especially in terms of material conditions that are necessary for living: a decent roof, a decent food and a decent environment. Nor will we forget these demands, nor will we forget the proposal to create and design a specific benefit against child poverty for families with dependent children below the threshold of relative poverty. They don't see it now, but we're not going to stop working because it becomes a reality in our community. That is why, even with this bitter-sweet feeling, we signed this agreement from my parliamentary group together with Basque Nationalists and Socialists, with the view that sometimes it is necessary to go step by step and continue to pressure, which is ultimately the work of the opposition. It is necessary to be in intermediate points and break with the positions of immobility. It is also necessary to remember that behind the figures there are children who suffer, who have been deprived of the right to their children, and that we need to stop getting used to child poverty. And as I told them in the interpellation, that it is necessary to end child poverty, that it is necessary to break the cycle of intergenerational transmission of poverty. Because we can't condemn a child to poverty all his or her life simply because he or she was born into a particular family, and it's as unfair as it is arbitrary. And I urge you to vote in favour of our compromise amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Popular-Ciudados, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u28	Mrs. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. We are now discussing the question of poverty, and it may also be interesting to us, considering the time we live, and the effect of pandemia with all that happens to children. When we examined the proposal, we saw that it was right to introduce a correction, and we introduced our correction... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... we saw that it was proper to introduce a correction, and we introduced our correction. We need to keep an eye on this subject, and as the proposition has been mentioned, we've already made an agreement in our previous law, and we think it's proper for us to get that deal done as soon as possible. Like I said, I'll be very brief. In the end, I am going to agree with the compromise amendment, although it is true that I would have liked to see some of the points that we have included in our amendment as a whole, as I have told the proposer. We consider it interesting, without further ado, when she herself was a counsellor in the interpellation and in her reply to it when she also referred to implementing cross-cutting programmes in areas such as the economy, employment, education, health, social inclusion, gender-based violence with, well, young people and also with children who may be in a situation of greater vulnerability. And we thought it opportune to echo that approach made by the adviser. And we understand it as a compromise and so we have picked it up in the first point. We are sorry that it was not finally included in the compromise amendment. But, well, as we believe that others of the points that we referred to in our amendment as a whole have been taken up, as I am finally saying that we will support it. We felt it important, as I said earlier, to comply with the parliamentary agreement of 17 May 2018 on the incorporation of the principle of the best interests of the child into all social policies and actions of public administrations. This is something that is pending. It's an agreement almost three years ago. And, therefore, it seems to us appropriate to introduce this forecast. On the other hand, we too, in our amendment, call on the Basque Government to refer, as quickly as possible, two issues which we believe are being seriously delayed and which it is high time that two very important reforms and which were commitments of this Government in the previous parliamentary term could be implemented as soon as possible, such as the referral of the draft law amending the guarantee of income and social inclusion and also the Lanbide reform, with the aim of ensuring that Lanbide can fulfil its purpose of giving employability in an effective way to the unemployed. In some ways, if not exactly as we had in our amendment to the whole, the reference to the referral of the draft law amending the Basque Income Guarantee and Inclusion System Act, which is a compromise, as I say, that this Government must materialize, and that we know there is already a preliminary draft. On the other hand, another point in the compromise amendment refers to the Family Support Plan. I believe that Members of Parliament know that this has been an issue that this Parliament has brought to this House with great enthusiasm, at least the parliamentarians who were in the previous parliamentary term. And, well, it seems to us appropriate, absolutely relevant, that a specific point be introduced in this regard to develop the measures envisaged in the Fourth Plan of Support for Families. We were very critical at the time with the delay of the measures implemented and collected in the III Family Plan. We were also very critical because the evaluation of this III Family Plan, which was effective from 2011 to 2015, was carried out later than expected. We were very critical because, as I said, many of the measures in that plan, III Family Plan, which talked about convergence with Europe in 2020 have not been met. And what is at stake here is that this Government, and especially in view of the problems that families have and the specific problem that we have with regard to the demographic challenge, which is an issue that needs to be addressed and which I asked the Lehendakari the other day, because an effort is being made, and now that the Budgets are being drawn up, an effort is being made to support families in a situation... that are in a situation of greater vulnerability, families with children and help with reconciliation. That is why I want to say that these are issues that, as everyone knows, we have defended and also with great enthusiasm. And, in that sense, well, it seems to us opportune. And we'll be watching... Its inclusion. And we'll be watching... I will not dwell on the other issues, on the points, because the proposer has already explained them. But I just wanted to say that we will be careful that this agreement is being implemented and that the Government is putting itself to it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u29	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u30	Thank you very much, President. Today we are discussing on this point the data on child poverty reflected in the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequality that was conducted between June and November 2020 and which was presented in June this year by the Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, Beatriz Artolazabal. This study we know has a biannual character. And it is important to note that within it it is noted that the poverty and well-being indexes in Euskadi have improved between 2008 and 2020 despite the crisis suffered and resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The real specific indices to real poverty have improved, relative to real poverty, have improved, although it has not affected everyone in the same way... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... real poverty targets have improved, relative to real poverty, have improved, although they have not affected all social groups in the same way. That's a positive fact. And it's important to value it. And it is also said that inequality has increased, but not due to the impoverishment of people, but because the most favoured people have become more enriched. These are the data collected in this survey and which, of course, show that, taking into account the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is clear that the measures taken by the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to alleviate the negative effects of this pandemic have had an effect, and have served as a containment wall, alleviating those social effects of this socio-health crisis. Measures such as supplements to ERTE; flexibility in the payment of Income Guarantee Income; increase in social emergency aid, which increased by 16 million in 2020 and 15 million in 2021; implementation of social programmes against the pandemic; gradual improvements in financial benefits for dependent children; measures to access Haurreskolak from families with lower incomes. The Aukerak Suspertzen programme, initiated in the confinement and which continues to be maintained, in order to reduce the digital divide in primary and secondary education in public and concerted centres, are, among others, many of the measures taken. The Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, in her speech at the plenary session, when the question that led to this motion was discussed, has already revealed these different measures adopted in a very broad manner. And I'm not going to go in and explain them here any more today at this point. But if it had not, the real poverty rate would not have decreased from 6.1 % in 2018 to 5.6 % in 2020, despite the fact that the survey was conducted in the midst of the pandemic. It also lowers the percentage of households that do not cover basic expenditure from 5.6 in 2018 to 4.8 in 2020. And families who consider themselves poor or very poor have also fallen from 2,007 in 2018 to 2,001 in 2020. The severe poverty rate in Euskadi in 2018 was 5.1 and was below the European average, which at that time was 6%. For the first time since 2008, child poverty has been reduced. And these data are better than those obtained in other autonomous communities. That's evidence. Something has been done well, I say, at the state level and at the level of the autonomous community. However, measures must continue to be taken to ensure that these figures continue to be improved, to reduce the effects of poverty and inequality, and to make further progress in social cohesion. However, it is necessary to emphasize that the effects on the most vulnerable, among which we can highlight the case of single-parent families, families with dependent children or emigrants. Despite the fact that we have been able to stop the pandemic blow, we must bear that in mind. But that situation is not new with the pandemic. It has already been highlighted in previous debates in this House. That is why we have defended the need to continue to articulate protection policies for these most vulnerable groups, which prevent them from falling into a situation of extreme poverty. And that is because, according to data from the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities, there are 70,348 people in the Basque Autonomous Community who fail to get out of poverty, despite accessing a Basque system of social protection, where we have the RGI, the Social Emergency Aid, the supplementary housing benefit and now the Vital Minimum Income. These data are the ones that have to be taken into account to continue working and to take measures to reduce inequality. But it is clear that these figures are the result of all the efforts made throughout the pandemic, as well as during the policies and efforts made over the past 30 years. And those commitments have been embodied in the compromise amendment that we have signed by the Basque Nationalist Group, Basque Socialists, with the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. And, among those commitments, reference is also made to laws in which work is already under way, such as the Children's and Adolescents' Rights Act or the reform of the Basque Income Guarantee System. Mrs González, there is no immobility in our amendment. In fact, in this compromise amendment, the various proposals we made and presented in the amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist Group, and we have completed with a joint work, with contributions also made by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. The result, of course, I think is good. Commitments have been made with the joint effort of the three enriching parliamentary groups, and they can serve to adapt those commitments and continue to improve and advance in this direction. He made reference, I am not going to go into the exhibition of the different points, because Mrs González has already explained them... But I am going to refer to the last fourth point, where we accept the commitment that the Basque Parliament should urge the Basque Government, in the Act on the Basque Income Guarantee System and for Inclusion, to make a commitment to refer to this House the protection of the most vulnerable families and, in particular, of minors. We wanted it to stay that way. It's a broad commitment. We now have the draft reform of this law and of the entire Basque system of income guarantee. I believe that through this non-law proposition you don't have to include... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... of this law and of the entire Basque system of income guarantee. I believe that this non-legislative proposal does not have to include any more points that may involve or have to do with reforms of that own bill. I believe that when the draft law comes, and it is in the parliamentary phase, the various parliamentary groups will be able to propose at that time amendments to the proposals they consider relevant. But we didn't think this was a time for a little project reform. No, the project is there. And, Mrs Garrido, you are still in time, because the commitment made by the Basque Government and Vice-Lehendakari, Mrs Mendia, is to bring that project to this House before the end of the year. With which, that commitment is there. The commitment of the Lanbide reform was also made, and I therefore believe that its third and fourth points are already a commitment made by this House on several occasions. And to us it seemed repetitive when we put it in or add it, because we have already assumed it and have already collected it on various occasions in other cases. And then, with regard to your first two points, Mrs Garrido, I think they are included in the points that have been included in the compromise amendment. They are already included, a little, your intention and what you proposed within them, although you do not literally pick up the expression you picked up within them. That is why I am grateful that you are going to vote in favour, because I believe that in addition these two points coincide, as you have said, with the contributions that you made in the amendment as a whole. The EH Bildu Group has not tabled any amendments. Well, we'll see when they intervene what their position is on this. And nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u31	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Together, Poedemus-Nozzerate representative of Animate, says, "Como consecencia del debatæ supportido, y en regnocimiento a la iniciativata y laboro deedo la organizio Save the Childen en la promoción de pollicas públicas la lucha contra poor infutila, proponemos labori moción." Absolutely. Save the Childen's work is remarkable in the defence of the rights of children and teenagers, and we also agree. But with this you will understand that we also have to mention the principle of equality, justice, and the work done by the Department of Society, which gives its fruits a hard task. The work of the whole government, the work of all departments, the aldudias, the councils, and the rest of the organizations. It's a partnership with the departments, the work we've often asked for, and we've asked for indirect work. Atzo bertan, Artolazabal salilburuak azierazpen batzuk egin zituen. Yesterday, she met with the Standing Sectoral Committee on Child and Adolescent Care, and, she said, she announced the launch of a pilot project to provide comprehensive care to child victims of sexual abuse. And, in the words of Mrs Artolazabal, "after a whole year of work by Save the Children, and by technical and institutional teams, in a month we will take a new step forward." Hau elkarlanaren animale avide bat da éta Save the Childrenen lanak daukan garrantziaren animale avide bate. Ezin dugu ahaztu era Arartekoaren provided. Lantaldeak beer, urtero, Honetan legebiltzar, aurkezten say haur eta nerabeen boulegoko txostena. Tresna ebilgarria da guretzat, bertan ahuleziak do not give ikusi dezakegulako, eta bagita era indarrak. Eta, honen arabira, ba neurri berriak diseinatu, laguntza berriak lendtu eta programa berriak egin dezakegu. Bestalde, mozioan, zergatian, esaten da: "As a result of the debate held with the Equality Adviser, Mrs Artolazabal". Kontroleko bilkuran, sailburuaren weretzuna izan zen osotua, sakona, eta datuetan oinarritutakoa; izan zen gure erkidegoko erealitatean oinarritutakoa. Their response, taking into account the time available, was comprehensive and data-based. In survey data, too, which forms part of the basis of this motion. Data that can be checked. The data are what they are, and the international recognitions too. For something it will be. This does not mean that there is, of course, room for improvement; that is what the Department is doing, and that is what the whole Government and the other institutions are doing. We've got to get better. Families, during this pandemic and still, are having a bad time. They need help. They need financial help, of course, they need psychological, pedagogical help, they need even school reinforcement. But, Mrs. Gonzalez, you know that the data in our community is good. And your partners in Madrid see it that way. So here, here, you're making it almost upside-down, and you make it blacker than a black parrot. That we must do better, agree that some data isn't good, but the general situation is good. And besides, it's all about the new family models that make the programmes, and all the measurements it takes. The work of the M.P. and the politics of society are strong. "The incidence of real poverty is returning to a descending line." All this data is from the survey to which reference is made, or the one that is the basis of the motion... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... real poverty returns to a descending line." All these data are from the survey to which reference is made, or the one that is the basis of the motion. "Decade of shortcomings in access to basic equipment. Falling gaps in internet access. Fall of material deprivation indicator. Fall in the proportion of people in households that do not meet basic needs. Indicators of feeding problems also improve, reaching supply cuts at a minimum level. Fall of indicators of absence of well-being. Improvement of indicators of savings capacity and access to consumer goods or services". As I said, all of this indicates a trend towards the welfare pole in Basque society. These facts are from the Incensity of 2020 p.m. and Society. So, what kind of reading do you read about teams? Well, I think what interests you, what data can be proved. I still do. "Strong fall in the incidence of poverty and hidden insecurity problems. However, the incidence of some decumulation and debt indicators has worsened. The pandemic has further increased poverty in single-parent families, especially in single-maritime families, and in families of foreign origin. And this poverty, although reduced in Bizkaia, has risen slightly in Gipuzkoa and Araba." The data's in there. They need to be examined. Those who are good are useful also, but we must consider them above all, and apply our labour to those who are not so good. And that's where we have to work, and that's where we have to put the innovation, and that's where we have to put the new programs. But again, the state of our community is a good degree of well-being, of 90.6. And it's true that families need a lot of effort, especially families with children. Growing and educationing a child is difficult, it requires economic effort: because it needs proper food, it needs proper clothes, it needs a proper education, i.e., health. We know all that. And that's why, when the families don't come in the right way, it's just fun, and then it's good for pillows and other organizations, and so does the department of Artolally's department. And besides, the family can't sometimes support the child and give him warmth and love. These are the gravest cases. And then he must take charge of the minor. It's not the right thing to do. Yeah, that's the way it is, but I'm afraid it happens. 27.5 million have been placed in the course of recent years, and this number must be added to the number of those who have gone through the pandemonies. The latest network strengthening program, mentioned also Mrs Sánchez, was set up to help the families with children. AES 2020. In the year, they increased in 16 million, and in 2021, in 15 million. And the options were established in the Susperizing Program and it's been established for this year's learning. She explained that a study on child poverty was being carried out from the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy and a child guarantee programme was being designed to integrate the fight against child poverty into a framework aligned with the European Union's strategy on the rights of girls and boys, always taking into account the best interests of the child and the child. All this is at the basis of the programs and aids for childhood and adolescence designed and implemented by this government. Señora González, tumos reforzando el armi social. Some things are done, some things are done, others are examined. And when you've been talking about economic matters, we haven't said no, but we just told you that the budget negotiations will take place in a few minutes, the negotiation of the 2022 budgets, and that you'll have to negotiate and that's where you're going to have to ask for what you see right or right. I am grateful to you for your facility in getting into this middle-way. It's true, it was a clever goal, but we've been turning and turning, and, as you said, we've made an arrangement, and that's important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good day to all. Good morning chief, sir. The interpenetration of the present day, in the Incension of the Pool and Pocities, relates to the facts of the child's craft. And here Mrs. Juez has mentioned a lot of data, but there is one and there is poverty: who climbed half a point in two years, arrived at 11.7%. A data. I, the other day, reviewing Mrs. González's interpelation with the chief of the Artolalobals, and hearing a few remarks here today, remembered that Ander Rodríguez told me about the Red Queen's hypothesis. And I told it here one day, didn't I? This hypothesis of the Red Queen is that of the Red Queen, which proposes that organisms should be constantly changed, to survive, to survive, to preserve, to preserve, to preserve, to preserve, to preserve, to preserve, to preserve, to preserve, to preserve, to maintain, to continue. And even then I mentioned that the same thing happens with the systems for the protection of society. We must change, adapt, adapt, preserve its protection. And I think of this today's discussion. And I want to connect this with another reflection on the results of Sociaity and Distraction. The principal aim of this inquisition is to know reality, or it should be so, and then to be able to influence it in this reality. That should be it. The data is not intended to take a photo, as we believe it is a necessary element to guide public policies. And when you hear the internship and have some talk for today... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...in our opinion, they are the indispensable elements of conducting public policies. And when I hear an interpenetration, and hear a few words to-day, I confess rather than a reflection suggested from this door. We should reflect on the situations in which the Government produces surveys, but the results of which do not affect public policies at all. Even, how to read totally political and interested data, which only serves to get out in the photo – even though the photo has little to do with reality – as happened, for example, in the last presentation of the data from the Poverty and Social Inequalities Survey. The Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, Ms Artolazabal, spoke and made a political assessment of the results of the survey, relating them to the policies launched during the pandemic. Although its impact, the impact of these policies, had not only not been measured and analysed during the survey, but in the period during which the data were collected, in some cases it did not coincide with the implementation of some of these mechanisms, such as the implementation of the supplements to the EERTs. But, well, that seems like it doesn't matter, that everything's worth it if it makes you look good in the picture. Don't you? And then, by chance, spend a little bit of time with other data, those referred, for example, to the increase in child poverty that motivates this inquiry. It seems that if one does not mention them, then, like no one realizes, there are no alarms and one does not begin to question the why of these data, the effectiveness of some programs, plans or pacts. In the end, I believe that the discussion of the day is even about this necessary reflection. In the interpelation of the latest poverty and social differences on the basis of this motion Mrs. González, the mistake of the data which is precisely derived from the incests. And the point is what we plan on it. At least that's how I understood Mrs. González's motion. It's a matter of fact here: We try to influence public policies in order to produce other results, in this case, to upset or prevent the excess of childfulness; or we continue to do the same by crossing our fingers to change things, and in the meantime we'll go and put them into the options of the data that helps us best in the photos, don't we? But reality is there. Life is a very real experience for many children and young men poverty. And we ought to consider what's going on, what's going on with our protection system, and what's happening in specific terms with the efficiency of ends and contrivances. But I heard little of it in interpelation with the chief physician of the Artola generous department, or of the groups supported by the government. And, well, I heard what's repeated here today: That EA data is good, that they are better than in other places, that many things are done, that they make investments. And this cannot be denied, but this government must give itself some ends. And in one thing I agree with what the chief physician said, and whether here, I think, with what Mrs. Juez repeated: these facts have something to do with what has been done for the past few years in a state of safety and poverty. And I'd add to what's not done. Because, look, in May 2017 the basic document for the reform of income guarantee income is presented, that is already pointed out. It has already been pointed out that GIR has been less effective in reducing child poverty, and that it needs to be addressed. That in 2017, it's been four years. In January 2018, President Urkullu presented the Euscal treaty for family and childhood with high pumps. It is intended that the agreement should be abstracted from a set of politics in answer to the two phenomena of structure. On the one hand, answering the low birth rate. We'll have to get a father when we're on the lowest level, break the record. And on the other hand, I shall read in words: "The most serious economic difficulties in families with children, and the growth of child-pobracy, which is one of the principal signs, and the difficulties of breaking the transmission between the generations of the growing differences." And today we are speaking of poverty, of child-frozenness. Itunaren ondoren etorri zen IV. Family-plan. A plan with a subtitle – for me it's very suggestive – to invest in families, to invest in childhood. And the diagnosis contained in the Plan states that the situation of children in Euskadi is generally good, but that this better comparative situation does not prevent pointing out and highlighting all the worrying aspects that arise in relation to families and children in the current socio-economic scenario, and that justify the development of the actions deriving from this plan. That is, that action in this regard is justified. And it is necessary to analyze whether what in the actions that are performed gives the expected results or not. And, among other difficulties, it is mentioned that the poverty differential associated with the presence of children in the home persists; it is noted that poverty in Euskadi has an imminent child and youth profile; that behind the growth of child poverty there is a growth in inequality within the child's own collective; and that there is growing concern about the difficulties of social mobility and intergenerational reproduction of poverty. And therefore the plan has a third as the main axis: To protect the families, in fact, the families that have children, to help them economically and to prevent the child's prevention. I believe that in this context we must read the incest of poverty. The prevention of child craft, which is intended to face this phenomenon, if the treaty and plans are in progress, has broken the data down in two years, and has gone up half a point is a little troubling. [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and with plans going on, the fact that the data has been broken down for two years, and that we've climbed half a point is alarming. It is evident, that in taking advantage of the compliment and structure of the pretty things placed round them, something was not well done. That something has failed, or that there is a difference of action from what it is said. And that's what he should be like: all this is studied, directed by all this. But neither in interpelation nor in the correction of groups supported by the Government, but that is not to be seen. It is re-established that, in spite of the fact that the eternal is clear, and although the data given by the eternal goes far away from those goals. I think it's a matter of total consideration, because even the credibility of such compacts doubts such readings. Family agreement and family plan have hardly been mentioned here. Well, you've come to an agreement. We didn't put any correction into Podemos' initiative. It seemed to us that he had many elements: some very interesting, some very interesting, some that caught us even further. In any case, it seemed to us that change was an enterprise placed in this intention, and that in this way, well, in some things agree and in others no. It was hard for us to draw a correction that would give way to a middle-way good and biable, wasn't it? And that's why we decided to make use of this opportunity, a few commitments from this government to remember. And I shall mention, that the first engagement of the Family treaty, appears in the debate of the first engagement, and in the last page, as the prevention of the poverty of children. Yeah? Then you've reached a middle line...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u35	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u36	...which seems to me to be a little short, as it were, in a way that has little of correcting those policies. I know that's what Mrs. Gonzále said about staying in immobilism, but sometimes it seems to me that if the steps are gone, they're not effective. In any case, if the discussion of today serves to excite alarms, to remember certain engagements, and to share some reflections, it is not a mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. In reply, the representative of the Podemos Antzel, Mrs González, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u38	To respond a little to all the interventions. Mrs Garrido wanted to say that with regard to the inclusion or not of aspects of her amendment, we understand how I said at the outset that some of them are covered in the compromise and we appreciate the support she has expressed for it. Issues such as the best interests of the child, which was actually a consensus already adopted in this Parliament or the first point of its amendment which is integrated into the objectives and approaches that the European Union recommendation sets out for the implementation of the European Children's Guarantee. But on the other hand, I also wanted to tell you that as long as from your parliamentary group you continue to insist on the employability axis social inclusion and remain a vertebrating principle of... to address the reform of the GIR, for example, for us are wrong in the approach, when it is a common ground that the right to social inclusion is not only linked to the condition of employability of people, and in any case, when the labour market above is not per se guarantor of the reduction of child poverty. However, I thank him for his support for the compromise amendment. To Mrs Sánchez, because this Parliament cannot be satisfied that the GNPs that are adopted consist in waiting for the Government to send us bills or to continue to work as hitherto, as if we did not have elements of assessment present, that it is not therefore coming to... with those data that you also mentioned that it is not coming to all the households that should be due or even to give an adequate and comprehensive response to the welfare of all children in the Autonomous Community. You didn't even point it out yourself. There are people who remain outside the social protection system. Social policies are measured not by weight, but in terms of quality and whether or not they serve the purpose they were created. Judge, well, let me point out to you that the common leadership, community work, the auzolan, when it comes to strengthening and guiding the Government's action in the fight against child poverty, must start from the basis of daring to make PNL or courageous motions that we call and that land great words and plans in street commitments, in real commitments. I think that from our group we do show that when we make a proposal we make it very landed, very concrete, the data are there, as Mrs Kortajarena has replied, and well, the data also allows us to design policies. I want to thank you sincerely, it is true that we have had a lot of (?)reactions with the texts above, below, some words, others, and well, I know that this is an effort that when you reach a compromise is mentioned, but it is not said, but well, that there are a few hours behind, and with Mrs Sánchez the same thing. We insist, this is the agreement we have been allowed to reach. It is a necessary step, but it is not the march or rhythm that we would have liked to advance, but still, we consider that the necessary thing is to walk, as I said before, step by step, to continue doing the work that touches us. We from the opposition know what it is and it is necessary to find ourselves at intermediate points, and I think we have found ourselves at an intermediate point from which many boys and girls in Euskadi can benefit... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I believe that we have found ourselves at an intermediate point from which many boys and girls in Euskadi can benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Euscal Group Popular-Ciudados, Mrs Garrido from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u40	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Just say two things. To the groups supporting the Government, to point out that the constant reference in many of these initiatives to the referral of the draft law for income guarantee and social inclusion, although it is true, as Mrs Sánchez said, that there is a commitment to referral with a specific deadline to be adopted in the Governing Council before a date, is there, obviously we know that it is the commitment made. But there were also commitments to this bill in the past legislature and others, which were not referred, and I therefore believe it is important to re-emphasize it and put it in a text, as the group I represent again has considered on this occasion. And to tell Mrs Gonzalez, well, I don't know whether they will be points of coincidence or not, but if one reviews the objectives that are pointed out in relation to Lanbide, it is employability. And, of course, we have very clear from the group also that I represent that the best social policy is employment and that social aid must be given to people, obviously, when they need it, and there are many people who need it for the time they need. But the ultimate end of a protection system has to be employability and give future people a chance and have a job. And I think that's the effort we have to make as a society and from public administrations. In addition, Lanbide is very clear what its objectives are, what its ends are. In this regard, we call for this comprehensive reform that will enable the employability of unemployed people, of people who do not have a job, strengthening all those mechanisms that have been shown to be ineffective in areas such as mediation, guidance and training. And we are going to remain demanding, because I believe that this is a challenge for the Basque Government, and above all in an area in which it has exclusive competence. And, therefore, it is a fundamental tool to put it, as I said, at the service of the employability of Basque citizenship. That, as we all know, and after the pandemic, its consequences are obviously being noted in the labour market, and especially, of course, in the young Basques. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u41	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs Sánchez, Basque Socialists. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u42	Yeah, from the seat. Very briefly, Mrs Kortajarena, income guarantee income, you have pointed out, has not been enough on its own to eliminate all that is child poverty, but it is that income guarantee income is not the only tool that we have within our protection system. We have another set of measures, I have highlighted many of those measures that have been adapted, we have the GIR, we have the ESAs, we have the supplementary housing benefit, we now have the minimum living income. They have different tools that all add up to that struggle, and not only does income guarantee income exist. And I want to tell Mrs Kortajarena, Mrs González and Mrs Garrido that it was not the Government's responsibility not to reach an agreement. No, no, It was not the responsibility of the Government not to reach agreement in the previous legislature with the draft that was presented, the proposed law that was presented for income guarantee income reform. We spent two years trying to negotiate with you and there was no way to do it, and it couldn't go forward. Then, do not throw balloons as if it was the responsibility of the Basque Government that did not come out of that reform, because it was you who were delaying and did not allow the possibility of being able to reach an agreement. Now we're in another legislature. There has been an intermediate amendment, which is the approval of the minimum living income that has also been introduced into this reform, of the new draft of the income guarantee reform system and for inclusion. As it cannot be otherwise, because it has to be entered, included within it, and that has also led to a number of important modifications within the new project. We are still on schedule, as I have also indicated, the compromise will be fulfilled, it is on the table. When it comes, you have the opportunity to get to work, to present any amendments you consider to improve the project, and to come out as soon as possible for the benefit of all citizens. In conclusion, simply thank Mrs González for the effort we have made to reach the compromise amendment. I believe that this is an amendment that adds up to a number of important and broad commitments in different areas that serve to further progress along the right path as we all want. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u43	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u44	You can hear it, can't you? Thank you again, Mrs. President. I'm going to be shorter than short, because I think it's an important deal when the agreements and the agreements are made today, and what's done with these second hands is all over again, I'm going to use the word and turn the data around. And I'm grateful that you see that, Mrs. González, and that's why we're here to make a deal. Mrs. Kortja's, you told us that we're doing the facts and what are we supposed to do? What do you do? You get the data, you get it mixed up, you turn around and you read it, just to keep up with you. Those who come from the outside, what do the study outside say?... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...turn around and read, just for the rest of your life. What do the foreign examiners say? It's a high degree of well-being in us. I haven't given all the data good. The bad guys are there, too. And that's where I said that we have to put our strength, and that we have to put new measures in it, new programs. That's the policy. And the department of the chief physician of the Artolaries adapts its wants or wants. Yesterday, at the Society Politics and Youtharius, there was a scene that you requested, Mr. García Herrero. He represents the directors and managers of social services. And he said, "que la note de Euskadi es Decaable." He mentioned the policy of dependence, the policy of preserving childhood, the system of retreats. She doesn't belong here. She doesn't live here. So what? Should we charge him with decency? He'll have injections. He knows the whole system here. He said things are to be made better, but he said "nota destacable." And there are more data, less than 18 years old girls and boys in poverty here, in our community, 13%, in state 29,5, and in Europe 28%. There's a lot of data. And again, there's a lot of work to do. It's not always the same. And some of them see it, too, out of here. It will be something or other because of objectivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Chotha's.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u46	I'm not a joke... I don't handle it with a microphone, and I'd rather go down. I'd rather, I'd rather, I said that. Dataing politics. What I said was that political readings were made. In that case, the chief physician of the Artolaries answered me in a question which he had asked me. It has been said that poverty and incestal facts have not been examined by examinations, that they have not been able to determine what they have caused in the poverty of the data that they themselves made a political interpretation of them. That's what he said to me in a question, writing. So you can look at it. And what I have said is: some data is good, some bad as it is. The point is, President Urkullu is now in charge of President Urkullu... Excuse me, Mr President. On my birthday, she announced her family status. And it was in the family mind that these two phenomena should be answered. One to the difficulty of having children, and with them the small rate of intimacy with the community, he said, to increase the rate of birth as a people's purpose, and I criticized him for saying so. And I said the results are there. There's the test data. And the other was to answer for childish poetry and social differences that make it. And we're talking here today about an interpelation, where it was what he planned to do in the childish mass. You encouraged the family agreement. In this family, some elements which were in the background of this treaty were interesting, we prepared a monographic discussion about beautiful families and the whole legislature round the demography. Then we got some very interesting deals. Far away, sir will be remembered. And that's how we said it from this April. In the meantime, there were incomes of incomes below 18,000 euros for them, free of infants. And (... ) President Urkullu is also, and far away we came to this arrangement in this corridor. The point is, in these treaties, and in those engagements we are engaged in, we must interpret the data. And for that purpose, whether in the pact, or in the family plan, the reduction of child poverty, when the facts show the contrary, coño... Something has to be done. We won't be able to go down here and say: "Hey, man, everybody's gonna be here 'cause we're doing the right things." No. And, of course, when it concerns the police of society, I have here maintained that we have, compared with other communities, a formidable difference. It's because of the labor done by the operating societies and the political independence they've made. And that's because they've had a lot of precedents. And because they're after them, then social progress policies. It's just that we're stuck behind it, too. And you mentioned the manager's report. And we get a really good note. It's just what evolution that note has. The debates should be placed at his return, and not here in vanity and vanity, as we are good at it. The highly interesting agreements that had been made on that family property. In the meantime, for example, a thorough examination of the preparations for the settlements and a modification of them for four years. Did you do it? No. Another arrangement to harmonize the schedules. Did you do it? No. I don't think it's self-portraits, and... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Another arrangement to harmonize the schedules. Did you do it? No. I think we need less self-portraits, and more honesty in commitments that are taken.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. End of discussion, we'll vote together Podemos-Nozzer Equila Sociists and Eucia Asbertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 72; in favour of 53; the contraries, 0; abstainments, 19; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u48	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Joseph Manuel Gilegas, a member of the popular-Ciudadans, in defending the freedom of family choosing the model of education. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gil Vegas, it's your word to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. And thank you very much, Mr. Counsellor, for your attendance at this debate. It is based, indeed, on an inquiry we made last week in which we wanted to give it the opportunity to clarify the true intentions of the Government in relation to the future. Education law, given the news we were seeing that they were talking about an approach to the model proposed by Bildu that advocated the widespread imposition of euskera and integration into a single network of public and concerted centres, thus eliminating the possibility of parents choosing the educational model. I regret to say that your answer did not seem satisfactory enough to us because it did not clear enough the doubts that had caused the interpellation. And that is why we are presenting this motion today, which is de facto a second opportunity, for the Government to clarify to us what is going to be the approach in which they are working on the next Education Act especially on these two important issues: the imposition of the Basque and the concerted network. And even if you repeatedly accuse us of creating artificial conflicts, of creating confusion in the citizenry and of wanting to scare – I suppose it refers to your voters – I remind you that this debate has not been raised by us, but is in Basque society and that the press has echoed this. As an example, and just to combat the bad memory, I will remind you of some of the articles or appearances that have appeared in the press in the last few weeks. On August 1, El Correo released the article entitled "More hours of language than the Spanish average and worse results". On September 12, El Correo released a report that credited the failure of model D. On September 14, the government responded to El Correo's news calling for the promotion of euskera outside the classroom in the face of the failure of model D. On the same day El Mundo titled "Education spends 3,748 euros on each student of the concerted network, 40% less than for the public". On September 19 El Correo returns to the charge and performs an examination to model D. On the same day Chronicle Basque also enters the issue and believes that the three models remained in "one" – between quotes. On the same day 19 Bildu presented his model of the Law of Education eliminating the concerted and with linguistic immersion. On 20 September Mr Bildarratz replied to Bildu that the concertee was not in danger. But he shut up about Spanish. On September 21, there was a debate on education at Radio Euskadi, in which the PNV spokesman, the PNV spokesman, said he was willing to – quotes – "limmar aristas con Bildu". On 23 September Otegi asked the PNV for a state pact in education. On 28 September, lastly, I did not want to be exhaustive, El Mundo titled "It is known that the Basque Government uses classes only in Basque to integrate foreign children". Therefore, I repeat, this debate has not been artificially invented by us to frighten its voters, no matter how much it repeats or irritates Mr Bildarratz. It is a debate that, as you can see, is on the street or in the kiosks. And it's logical and legitimate for me to bring him here. And don't try to say that we're not constructive just because we don't agree with your point of view. To demonstrate this, I will start by saying that there are some basic issues, three in particular, on which we do agree with the Government on the basis of the words of the Education Adviser in the last question. We agree, Mr Bildarratz, that education is the most important issue of citizenship and of any society because it represents the future of it. We've repeated it many times. For a liberal like me education is above all else. And I'm glad to share this priority with the advisor. We also agree that the new Education Act should collect the contributions of experts, it should be based on them. Which should put the student in the center, agree completely. And that must take very much into account the families and the faculty. Of course, basic principles that we all share, as I think it cannot be otherwise. But we also agree that education needs evaluation, improvement and adaptation to the twenty-first century. His words too. We agree with them. We agree on these three points, but we have many doubts about the fact that so far the Government has not been governed by these principles in its management. And we are glad that you intend to rectify it in the future. In the last full session of control, the Councillor, with regard to concerted education, said in text "that the two networks would be strengthened". I'm glad to hear it, and I hope so. On the subject of the compulsory status of Basque, it was much less clear, but stated that each educational institution will decide its language model and that the freedom of choice of families will be respected. These are words I have taken from Mr Bildarratz's written statement. And I'm glad of this, huh. Because that is not what is happening today and I hope that this will also serve all public institutions. The reality is that today parents cannot choose the language model in which they study their children, however much you repeat the opposite over and over again, for a reason that understands anyone and that here we have repeatedly exposed: the lack of offer. 98% of public schools... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... for a reason that understands anyone and that here we have repeatedly exposed: the lack of offer. 98% of public schools do not offer model A. And if there is no offer, let us not be deceived, there is no real freedom of choice; and we have already denounced it many times. It's not law enforcement, it's scathing the truth to Basque society that knows very well with the problems they face at each start of the course when they try to enroll their children in Spanish, and you justify it by saying that models B and D have a higher quality and achieve better results. Let me say that I am not the one who refutes this false argument, but I am going to go back to the same press that I referred to before, so that I do not accuse myself of distorting reality again; I will only show you three pieces of the last few weeks so as not to bore this House. "More hours of language than the Spanish average and worse results." "Model D fails to train bilingual students." "Education at the crossroads of the Euskera. The failure of three models that stayed in one." So, as many times as you repeat it, model D doesn't get better results, but worse. Look, it has no better results, not even in relation to the goal of the Basque. I told you the other day, according to ISEI data: 53% of the 2nd ESO students in model D do not have the basic skills in Basque. How will Math or Science students learn if they do not master the language in which they are taught this knowledge? This looks like a drawer to me. This reality is so obvious, and that the Government so irresponsiblely denies, that we do not understand how the minimum logic can be maintained. It is a reality that lives on a daily basis thousands of families and thousands of students who do not want to be insignificant, but who try to survive an educational system dedicated to the nationalist mission of imposing the euskera on everyone to machamartillo. And what is causing it is that today, the Basque, a language that we should all protect with common sense, with common sense, is having unprecedented rejection quotas. And every time we denounce it, Mr Bildarratz, in a prepotential and paternalistic way – with permission – asks us to change our attitude. I am sorry, Mr Bildarratz, but I will not fail to denounce this injustice, because I legitimately represent more than 60,000 Basques who have chosen us to bring their voice to this Parliament. And no matter how many times you use your roller to knock down our proposals, or whether we are the only group that does these approaches, because we will continue to be the cricket that will continue to shout the truth, annoy those who bother. At the door of a new law of education, I agree with you that it is time to listen without prejudice. And I'm glad to hear you want to make a comprehensive and substantive agreement; a real social pact. The transaction we will have today shows his closeness and his willingness to deal preferentially with Bildu. Well, I just want to ask you from here not to forget to integrate our points of view, because so far you have not only not been interested in them, but you have fought them vehemently. And the House is witness to this. And, as we have already shown in this House, we have a large number of contributions to make to this new education law, ranging from a new transparent procedure so that parents can express, without pressure, their preferences for the language of their children's education; measures to strengthen the capacity of teachers and cloisters to put order in the classrooms and in the centers; systems of periodic evaluation of teachers; plans for the selection and training of teachers, much more ambitious than the current ones; investments to increase quantitatively and improve qualitatively the presence of English in education; increased scholarships and aids to ensure equal opportunities in all segments of the educational process; measures to strengthen concerted education; resources to strengthen also, in a substantial way, the public network; investments to achieve the universal freeness of children's education, in which the other day this House showed agreement; the establishment of the school nurse; the freedom of the centre to implement the continuous day in accordance with its educational model; measures to eradicate effectively, and once for all, bullying; even measures to ensure the neutrality of education. We can talk about all this and much more, gentlemen of the government. And we must do so in the face of the new education law, in which you have the opportunity to demonstrate to what extent is true that attitude of "auzolan", of listening, of consensus, of which you then boast. We remain at your disposal, and we expect from you an attitude as open and willing as that which you have had with Bildu, if it is true that you want to draw a law, as you have said, consensual, based on a broad agreement, which constitutes a true pact and which, therefore, is capable of surviving many years and many governments. Because, gentlemen of the Basque Government, education cannot be played with. And we all know that making laws without consensus, subject to constant tensions and changes, not only does it not benefit education, but it seriously harms it. Education cannot be an instrument for the implementation of party ideologies, but the most valuable tool we have to build a future of coexistence, modernity, progress and democracy. It's a chance you shouldn't miss. And I'm sure we agree on this too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u51	Good morning. Well, I, first of all, want to thank that enormous concern that the liberal right, as Mr Gil defines, shows for the subject of education. And I agree with him in many of the statements he has put on the table in this rostrum, right? It also seems to us that education is an essential issue for the quality of any society and of any democracy; probably the most important of all. Unfortunately, on many occasions this has not been the case. In the state we have the example that each government has put an education law on the table, and there has only been a moment in recent Spanish democratic history, with Angel Gabilondo as Minister of Education, in which, with the pact already practically closed... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... and there has only been a moment in recent Spanish democratic history, with Angel Gabilondo as Minister of Education, in which, with the pact already practically closed, the PP frustrated at the last moment and it was not possible to reach an agreement. That is why I think it is very important that the adviser's commitment that this bill should be a project with the greatest political consensus possible. It could be done, numerically it would be possible among members simply of the Government, Socialist Party and Nationalist Party, but precisely because of the enormous importance of an education law, it is important to achieve as much consensus as possible. I agree with what I encourage you to join as well. That is why, regardless of the importance you and I attach to talking about the educational model, it seems to us that an educational pact is neither raised nor resolved on the basis of motions nor of GNP in Parliament. That's not the formula. That is a formula of the short regatta, of marking our own political position for each one, but what it is about is to look for a meeting place, a common place in which we are all able to turn the best of ourselves. That is why we have tabled this amendment calling for a paper that starts from now on to deal with, discuss, agree on the future of education for our children, how the educational model will be, what happens to language models, what are the mechanisms for participation at all levels established in public education, how the quality of education is monitored, how each language is taught, how effective it is, if we are actually meeting the minimum standards for quality education. We want to talk about all this in the paper and I encourage you to join in that effort as well. That is why we did not want to discuss your specific proposal today, and it seems to us far more important that we agree today that this Parliament should request the constitution of this paper, which is now beginning to study the new Education Act, and that is what we want to devote ourselves to today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u52	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u53	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, everyone. Mr Gil, directly and very briefly I will say that we are in the opposite direction of education policy and we are going to vote no on your motion, so today I am going to focus on the compromise amendment that is going to be adopted. The bad news song says: " Learning, learning from errors, asking forgiveness as a people, waiting in silence, listening, taking advantage of time, singing, learning, learning from children, books, other cults, learning from the past, from the future, from you, from me, from us, from us. And this never stops." The bad news takes a good picture. But I will add to this that you have often heard me say, the reading of the education system of the Basque Country at the present day. It seems to us that our modern education is exhausted, for it does not respond to the wants of the students, and serves not to respond as a people to the roots of the future. However, it is true that our education now exists in the community of education, the result of the awful, tireless work which the students, families, professionals, teachers have done, and the workers have done. And I would like to confess that there are several models, several models, several models, so many models, and so many exemplary initiatives, when the organization of space, corresponding to the healthy and ecological dining-rooms, as well as to the use of the free software, in enterprises for persons, LGTBI, in the direction of the democratic participation of families, when the voice of the students is placed in the first line, and adapted to their mobulifiations, in the struggle for the euphoration, the use of the free software, the construction of the people around the community, and much more. So we can also say that we have a thousand motives to be proud of our education units in our own country. But I wouldn't want to fall into conformism today. And it seems to me that our education system has three special problems to solve before it's too late, among many others. But I'll mention three of them today. The first would be the retreat in eroscala. All our last ten-cadors have aroused red alarms. Last, the evaluation division of the Board of Education tells us that he's given us a slap, and he tells us that our education system isn't qualified to transmit to all students the ability required in two languages that are official. And if this is a problem we have to solve before it's too late. The second manufacturing problem, which has been founded on our system, is, we believe, a segregation. The segregation of sexual segregation, the segregation of non-regative bodies, the segregation of language, and above all the segregation of origin and of the social level, is rooted in us. Even the last report of Eva Silvan and Aina Villano is the same for us. And that's why we think we have to deal with the segregations properly. Our education system is segregation. And this, we think, is unbearable. A system of high-speed education is elevating in us. And in our opinion, we can't go on like this. Things have to be called by their name and, we believe, we have to say loud and clear that we have an education system of different speeds, a segregating education system, and this as a country is unacceptable, we cannot afford it. Our system, we believe, perpetuates segregation above all – and this must also be said – segregation by place of birth and socio-economic segregation. And we have to end this before it's too late, to also avoid a social fracture beyond the educational fracture. And third... we think that... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...we have to end this before it's too late, to also avoid a social fracture beyond the educational fracture. And third... in our opinion, the third problem is that of a frame of its own, we have no proper educational system. Our education is determined and regulated by a Ministry of Madrid. LOECE, LODE, LOGSE, LOPEG, LOCE, LOOMCE, LOWCE, and the last, LOWE. Everyone has a common multiple: That they are organic laws. Our education system now rules and decides in a miniature in Madrid. So we would like to mention this too, we have no exclusive control over our education, and the organic decisions above our education are taken in Madrid. But today we have a chance to turn this whole diagnosis around. It's time to reach the challenge of the Word of Education. It is time for us to obtain a firm and extensive consent which will determine the foundations of Basque Education for the next decades. We've opened that option. He's ready to hold our challenge on our left independence, and we'll take advantage of this opportunity window at the Basque Country. The moment has come and we will not let it go. This is our commitment to our country. It is time to address the challenge of the Education Agreement. We have opened up the possibility of reaching firm and broad consensuss that define the foundations of Basque education for the coming decades. The independent left is prepared to address the challenge we face, and in Euskal Herria Bildu we will take advantage of this window of opportunity. The time has come and we are not going to miss this opportunity. This is our commitment to this country. And what about the Wordal Education for? And the other one, to argue, to meditate, and to carry on the conversation with him in a serious and profound manner. He's been talking a lot about education in the past few weeks, and I must admit that we've been able to bring him to the center of actual education, that's undeniable. But now, above the media noise, it seems to us that the time has come for us to talk about the contents. Beyond articles that contribute little, beyond intentions of distorting speeches and different proposals, beyond fake news and beyond debates in 140 characters, I want to make a location: let us be rigorous, be rigorous, and work together to transform our educational system. Euskal Herria Bildu we have a proposal. We called it "Towards a sovereign public education system." A long proposal, which also makes a concrete landing in the Basque Autonomous Community. With sincerity, with will and willingness, we will give the rest, we will give everything we have to achieve a great country agreement. The important thing, however, beyond the proposition, is the process. And we're also saying today that EH wants to be able to guarantee the problems of education, families, students, unions, professionals, scholars, experts... To make sure that all this voice we're going to have today to hear it. An education agreement, power, with all the education community. In order to place the student in the centre, to penetrate into the public system, and to make the euca and euscal culture a axis. We have to resume the Euscalal education system, and our model should be directed to Finland, Denmark, Portugal, or Cuba. A friend of mine brought what was written at the 8th weekend magazine: "The wounds are healed in the work of one another, in the sincere effort for common ends. This is important to every one from where he is most comfortable, and there is something to do." So let's give it a chance to argue. Together. Listening to each other. A long time ago, trying to identify and liberate the knots that have been created for years. We're building agreements. I, you and them, and, after all, we. The path of the Word of Education has begun. Let's say we have the best of eupscal education. I'm sure we have good will, how beautiful it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician, good morning. Congressmen, good morning to all. It was, as I said, a question of the freedom of families to choose the model of education, which was introduced today by the members of Popular-Ciudadans. And about this, Mr. Gil, in response to interpelation at the 1st of October, not a different thing from what the chairman of the Union said... At least my team won't say it today. I think today the discussion has taken a different direction. Education is one of the most important instruments in the future, and, acting with responsibilities, this Eucommy on his board has come to accept a new law of education. And a new education law for what? Why? In order to give the most suitable answer to the roots of our future education system. This is absolutely necessary. And I think that all of us will agree on this. Let us be. For you, Mr. Gil, and not for all the teams we're making. Our goal is to make a great deal of a deal about the definition of euscal education in the next 30 years. And this must be the work of all of us, as far as we are political agents, space for this agreement. [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... And this must be the work of all of us, as far as we are political agents, in order to enable us to create space for this agreement. And that's what we came here today. We've created society. We create education to the community, and to all the operating societies that are involved. Councillor Bildarratz has already said: "The Basque society is aware that, above all, with education, we are playing the present; and above all, we are playing the future of the country." Eta bete-betean azpimarratzen said hauek berba. We must be able to define a new one, in order to consider the contributions of persons who are expert in education, as the student is an axis; and as the families and teachers are entities capable of guiding and assisting them, we must be able to learn in the community. And here's the key: xxi.) the mode of space, which will enable us to form a new order of schools. which will establish the standard of rule of the century for the whole euscal education system. Education requires evaluation, improvement, adaptation, if we really want to be refugees in Europe. And I think that's the end of all of us. And among the several different compounds which our education has penetrated, there is also a model of language, but we must discuss many and many. Around the language model, Mr. Gil, is the main purpose of your initiative. Around this two ideas, two words. On the one hand, we do not begin from zero, according to the course of the latest 60 years of education and the euccan institutions, we may say that Esscal education has filled up the modified task, especially in eucalyprated and decent societies. And this, too, is said by the bad news, and the repetition of a lie does not make it true. Mr. Gil, you're right, because you say so too, apply to yourself. Euskal hezkuntza system, familiar hezkuntza herduaren aukeraketan eta hyzkuntza herduaren aukeraketan askatasuna bermatzen dira. No doubt about that, Mr Gil, Councilman Bildarratz has already told you. This is reflected in the current framework of our law, yes, and is fulfilled. It is that this Government has always worked, continues to work and will continue to work to guarantee that right in accordance with the law. Euscalal education is an eloquent system, its axis is eucalyptic, but it is structured in both official languages and in a foreign language. It is a key to cohesion of society, and it serves to assure the citizens that they may be able to communicate in two official languages. Mr. Gil, my parents have a right to choose their language pattern, and we'll say it over and over in the name of this group. and this is always the case with them. They make use of the right to choose, and in practice, whether they like it or not, they choose Mr. Gil, D and B patterns, and they choose them with freedom. And besides, when these families end their education in a positive manner, they rate these models of education. The same discussion in April, we said in the April of this year, and you said the same thing to you, and it's exactly the same. And for years, that percentage gets bigger and bigger, chosen by families with all their freedom. Mr. Gil, how is it understood that these poor silent families, who cannot exercise their right of choice, how can it be that this situation being so every year the demand for model D grows? Well, I don't understand, I don't understand. No, they're free. And as it is requested in your original initiative, I believe, in the third place, about the schools, whether it be compact or not, the two networks will be strengthened by it, Mr. Gil. It seems to us that we can't understand either the eucalyptic system of education, and both are very important and essential to our eucalyptic education system. However, today at the Board of Education, we will allow them to discuss and reflect a potentiality. And there, there's gonna be a lot of situations that will be shared. The Board of Union proposed a change of attitude to you in your interference, so our team once asks you to do the same: What the reality of the family of eroscals is, the necessity expressed by freedom, in order that we may be able to consider the process which we shall live in the next few months with a sincere and proper glance; We need to be there to listen, to discuss and take into account the contributions of people who are experts in education. So it's important to open a new time in the process of building a future education system. That's why we're here today. It agrees with the needs of the Basque community, and to form a system of consent and stability that will last in time. Society in general, and the means of association, require, above all, a great harmony in the sphere of education, and we must give them an answer. And that's why today, our teams, our Social Groups and the Basque People, to form a place in the region of the Board of Education in order to determine the basis for a wide conformity to the Esscal educational system in future. And there, through public occurrences, all the experts, all who are part of the education community, can bring their contributions and reflection. I want to thank the Socialist Group and the Basque People for their integrity. From the very beginning we saw that it was best to answer this correction in order to start the whole procedure. And I'm inviting Podemos to join us, and then we'll hear from him... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... that it was best to start the whole procedure. And I invite Podemos together, and then we will hear his speech, that he approves or protects our correction. And also to Mr. Gil, porque esto no cuestion de Preprerencias, this is our business, and it is worth it. We will limit edges, with Euskal Herria Bildu, but also with you, we are ready, Mr Gil. That is why we want to open this process. Gure herriaren etorkizunak merezi du. Kontuan izan, mesad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínin-Izón, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u57	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Well, we want to present our attitude to this initiative, but I'm going to cut our speech into two pieces, about the initiative described by PP-Ciudadans, and then about PNV, PSE, and EH. In the event of today, the proposing party is founded on a false discussion, although today Popular-Cantanos have entered certain specifications, but even in these particular facts we see false from our point of view. In these specifications we can see PP-Ciudadnos prioritys, at least for one important discussion we probably will have in this legislation. Approval for the transformation of the system of education to PP and Ciudadans to reduce education on one side, and in the second, strengthen the network of compacts. We are therefore witnessing a debate set by this part of the right wing of the House and a debate, in addition, of a broad outline on nuclear elements of the Basque educational system. An initiative that with all the respect of the world to the professionals and the professionals of the press, the (?) wanted to illustrate with clippings of articles from the media. It has, never better said, mixed a great title, freedom of choice with the language, with the reinforcement of the concerted and with a supposed disadvantage that gives a language to acquire competences. No one can be surprised that this proposal is going to receive a no-fly from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda United by consistency and responsibility. For coherence and responsibility, we vote against the original initiative. We can't protect the eucaphobic and publicphobic which is behind this initiative. A language cannot be responsible for problems within the education system on its own. We have to discuss, but without any stigmatisation. Mr Gil is speaking on his initiative to strengthen concerted education in Euskadi, where and in Euskadi, Europe's second largest private and concerted education. He also does it in a system... with a system in Euskadi of admission of students that on many occasions, - you have not said any of this - becomes a system of selection of students that generates that system of admission and selection, the third index of school segregation by origin and by higher class of the Spanish State and one of the highest in the European Union. You fill your mouth with the word freedom, as if it also belonged to you. Freedom without equality serves absolutely nothing. Unequal freedom only serves for the advantaged to choose and the disadvantaged to remain with the crumbs. You specifically and your Citizens Party are defined as a liberal party. A liberal thinker, Isaiah Berlin, said: "What is freedom for those who cannot use it. Without the proper conditions for the use of freedom, what is the value of freedom." Well, I'm telling you, your vision of freedom is to maintain the privileges of a few. That's his vision of freedom. You have signed the PNV and PSE and the EH Collect center to create power. To tell the truth, we must say that PNV and EH Collect have offered to be in that signature and middle term. I've already spoken of the concept of consistency and responsibility, and we haven't signed it for those concepts, but we'll protect it. Do we need a new education law? It's possible, we won't argue. Do we need a power to examine the state of education and to increase our challenges and to make proposals? It's possible, we won't argue. That's why we'll protect this middle-way. Ez dugu sinatu ore art prozesu ez arutu, pribatu, was pribatuan egindakoa eta was mediatikoan ez dugulako parte hartu. We have not participated in this process that has taken place so far. We have not been invited until we met some of the main dishes of the cocktail that were being negotiated between the Basque Nationalist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu. So far at least, now we know part of that menu, we're going to participate and we're going to see what we can change to know if we're going to be participating to the end. And it's not a question... it's not a question of jealousy, it's not even a question of that political polyamour that has become fashionable in Euskadi in the last few weeks. We will participate because education in Euskadi faces some challenges, some advantages, but also a backpack big enough to know what our role is and the role that Elkarrekin Podemos and Left Unite plays in this debate. Horrexegatik part hartuk dugu, but we are alert. No, no, no, no, [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... What is our role and the role of Elkarrekin PodemosUnited Left in this debate? Horrexegatik part dugu hartuk. But we're on the alert. No one could be surprised, because the Government had adopted a legislative timetable, and there were keys and a timetable. And in those keys we were working not only on our parliamentary group, but, as you know, on all the agents of the educational community in Euskadi. Surprisingly or not, the lehendakari announced that the process of discussion of the Education Act was being advanced. Did you surprise us? Maybe. Improvisation? We don't think so. Did the Lehendakari and the Education Adviser mediate the impact of an unprepared debate, at least for public opinion? We don't know either. We didn't like it and it seemed irresponsible how to do it. It was funny, too, and we said this at the same time to introduce the proposal of EHG. We said it, and we say this time, that at the timing it was agreed, or that it was just a coincidence. We don't know that. I repeat, it is permitted, of course, but the consent of a vast compact must be made of sincerity and loyalty, or at least of all of us in a broad or broader manner. We will have the space of the presentation to listen, to learn, to bother ourselves with the reality also of the education system, to be surprised and to congratulate also some of the good practices that, for example, have already been mentioned in a previous intervention of the Basque educational system. From Elkarrekin we can be willing. But we also warn, that no one is in a hurry to close an agreement, that no one wants to go from point to point for uncomfortable debates, that no one is afraid to get upset, that no one is afraid to open the doors of this presentation to society, to the educational community. This presentation cannot be a presentation of the parliamentary groups that we are represented in this House or not alone. It has to rely on the educational community, the participation and co-construction of the educational community. Otherwise, this law will be a law without much future. We want a quiet and constructive discussion, but from roots and radicals. Radical de la a raíz de los problemas y poner medicas para atajarlos. There will only be Podemos-IU together in a new law which takes as its foundation a public, democratic, euphoric, equalizer, and reviewer. The backbone must be the Public School, the Public Institute of Public Conditioning. Let us not deny, in Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, the basis of reality. But we humbly aspire to transform it. We do not deny the existence of a concerted network in Euskadi. There is, and in the meantime, what we demand is that it fulfils, that it assumes the social and educational diversity that Euskadi has and that, moreover, if it does not, it cannot receive public funds. At length, during the last few weeks, we have all been able to discuss and see with little arguments. It is probably wrong of me to say this, but this discussion requires less testosterones and more collective thoughts and more, less ariorism. Okay, Mr. Arrese. We haven't even graduated from Basques. We must make a quiet discussion among them all. Therefore, peace of mind, proposals, open debates, analysis of problems, search for agreements and, when it touches, democratic confrontation as well. We're ready to go along the way together in Podemos Arena, to identify problems, to agree to alternatives, and always to build a solid public school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u58	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Passing the answers, Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Well, we've all seen it. I believe that the debate is a magnificent representation of how things stand on this issue. On the one hand, we find the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party asking for consensus and saying they want a pact. But then they just agree with Bildu. And here's the transaction, which we'll see. The transaction, the signature with Bildu. I don't know. You guys have a majority. Indeed, they will have the opportunity to demonstrate what they say about the open doors, to listen, to integrate everything, to make a law of truth covenant. The question is: Are you really willing to integrate our views as well? Are you really willing to change some things that, perhaps, you don't agree with? That's where we're going to be able to prove, you're going to be able to really prove whether you're willing to compromise or all this is just beautiful words. This time will tell us. But we're already seeing how things are. Mr Arrese, you say that we have completely opposite positions in the antipodes of education. This as a headline is fine and, besides, it doesn't scandal me. The truth is, I didn't aspire to the contrary. I'll tell you, honestly, I don't think that's true. I believe that there are points where we are in the antipodes and, in particular, the two we are talking about today that we are in the antipodes. I think there are many others who don't. We have seen it these days in the Committee on Education. Were you not in the antipodes on the topic of the continuous day, on other issues? In other words, there are aspects that are not. But, well, you guys get in there. The question is: "So, what is your attitude going to be during the paper and during the law? The imposition of your point of view? I mean, none, any kind of negotiation? Because, of course, I do not know why you want exactly a presentation if you have already made your conclusions in public. You've already introduced the model. And from here on out, it's clear that you're not willing to discuss anything... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... I do not know why you want exactly a presentation if you have already made your conclusions in public. You've already introduced the model. And from here, it is clear that you are not willing to discuss anything or open anything. Well, this isn't exactly what we were saying, and I'm afraid this is what's going to happen. I mean, there are issues where we are in opposite positions, but I don't see the real agreement attitude that is said to then exist, there hasn't really been that predisposition to consensus. Well, about the paper, well, you know that I personally am not very supportive of papers, because I think it's a great way to kick the ball forward and waste time and money. But in this case, in any case, it could be justified, to me it seems no bad idea. And, in fact, we are going to vote abstention. It does not seem bad to us because we believe that it helps reflection, that it helps to incorporate more points of view and so on. He might be fine. Well, I'm really worried that this paper comes out as a further demonstration that the parties that support the government are actually willing to have Bildu as their preferred partner, and for that reason, I was saying, we're not going to vote affirmative, we're going to vote abstention, and we're going to see how this evolves. I repeat, this attitude of consensus, this attitude of listening and integration it is you who have to demonstrate it with the ability to integrate also our point of view, which are as legitimate as any other, even if you do not like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u60	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor mustn't speak. Arrese, representative of the EHG, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u61	From the seat, Chief of Parliament. Thank you. Gil jauna, you're talking about imposition. Euskal Herria Bildu all he's done is get ready for this marathon. We think that in education we don't have to run a sprint, we think it's a marathon, we think we have to walk the road, we think we have to do a process to reach agreements. That Euskal Herria Bildu is the only thing he has done, with his bases and with public opinion and with educational opinion, with the educational community, sorry, to make a proposal, a proposal because we are not afraid of the debate and we are going to face the debate, of course, on the basis of this proposal. This proposal, which in this House has the backing of 21 Members of Parliament, and for the moment I only know a proposal in this Parliament and it is the one that Euskal Herria Bildu has made. Let us hope that in the paper we can see the proposals that the other groups are going to bring to that committee, to that paper, but I insist, for the time being, a single and exclusively comprehensive proposal has been made by Euskal Herria Bildu. Let us hope that the presentation gives so that all opinions and proposals are on the table. And I insist on imposing nothing. The only thing we intend to do is to mark issues to be discussed. If you read in our proposal, which is public, you will see that these issues are also those that we have discussed many other times in the Committee on Education. We talk about decentralization, we talk about the autonomy of the centers, we talk about the role that municipalities have to play in the educational system, we talk about language, about language learning, we talk about putting the student in the center and we make a sincere diagnosis, from our point of view, about what our educational system is today. Therefore, imposition, none. But before six parliamentarians of the PP-Citizens, 21 of Euskal Herria Bildu, so let us let the citizen speak, let us let the educational community speak and vote, let us reach consensus but let a minority not impose on a majority of this Parliament their account. In saying this, as far as the agreement is concerned, as to this constitution, I should like to mention, that the process of this constitution is of more importance than a new law, which may come to us. It seems to us, instead of haste, that we must bring forward a deliberate process, in order to obtain an educational agreement, which is the object of being the greatest possible harmony. As I have said, without haste and without fear. Besides, we have experience in this country where we have education and education; If we have continents about language, they have been successful in some countries round the segregation, and we should have brought them here; it is now 15 years since this year that the elementary education agreement was defined in this country, we have also marked a property; And, considering all these, it seems to us that there is a time to act upon this power. What I said, the Basque Country has a proposition. We'll see what he looks like. It seems to me that we shall leave all these aspects behind us, we shall discuss, we shall receive different opinions, and shall see what is the result of it. And, finally, I just want to thank the representative of the Jeltza Party, for his will to agree with this correction. Even the Social Party member. And how can you, together with Podemos-IU, protect this half-correction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u63	I'll talk to you on your permission to discuss a couple of accounts. Alde battik, Mr Gil, it is you who favored the creation of this paper by presenting the initiative you have presented. Its original initiative again and again calls for the future Education Act. And you know, you're clear, because we've told all the groups, that before that law, what it touches is the pact, the prior education agreement. That is why when we proposed to put forward an amendment and started talking among the groups, there was no other possibility than to put forward this amendment which we have ended up putting forward. The problem, in this case, you would have it because it is you, it is your group that refuses to sign anything with Euskal Herria Bildu. We are ready to agree at all times under any circumstances, with any group, when we understand that it is good and necessary for our country, for Euskadi. Therefore, readiness to agree, all of it. He was talking about time "time will tell," and as we have already mentioned to Berri Txarrak several times during this intervention, Berri Txarrak also has another beautiful song that says: "Denbora da polygrapho bakarra". Ba, Ikusiko dugu. Baina hemen, behintzat, gure tadeak, Euzko Alderdi Jeltzaleak, ez donka inolako konplexurik, éta ez donka inolako marra gorriik akordioetara heltzeko. Hori da helburua... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...at least, our team, the Jelt Party of Euk, has no complexity at all, and has no red line for the settlements. That's the point, and that's what all this trial is about. And to Mr Martínez I would like to say – because I was commenting that we abstain because we have not participated in this process, it seems to me that this is what he said, Euskal Herria Bildu has his proposal, he has presented it, it is not our proposal, it is not the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party, everyone has his own – this is the process. Today the process begins, here the process opens, there is a space for debate, reflection, listening, so that we can feel among all the foundations of the Basque educational system of the future. Today the process begins here. Therefore, I encourage you to go further. Welcome be, be all of us, and I hope that my estrogen levels will help to balance the environment a little bit. Thank you, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Martíni, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u65	Ez neukan pentsatuta hitza hartu, bathe, well. Orina Arizabalaga andreak esan du, ez dakit, nik uste dut nahiko argi generated from lehenengo esku hartzean baezkoa emango geniola ekimenari. Baietz, on the other hand, I did not get down on my knees and closed the door to the transaction, but we have said that we are going to vote yes, that we are going to participate and we have also explained some of the initiatives. And I just wanted to make that clear, I don't have any other Berri Txarrak dates to put on the table. But, I say again, a speech, today we may end this transaction and this vote as well. But in the paper he's going to play remangang and he's going to play to hear very uncomfortable things and he's going to play to put solutions to it. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have said this on more than one occasion, and we have our educational proposal, although we have not submitted any documents, is in the electoral program, is in the 15 resolutions that we also present in the year 2018, in the presentation for the agreement of the bases of Education. There they are. And we will logically have to modulate and change and agree, and for that we are willing and willing. Pero lo decía antes, frankly. We can't accept a law that hasn't been used as the public school axis. That will be our main proposition, but not the only one. And that's why we're going to participate in the power, of course. And that, I repeat, we will assent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u66	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. End of discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Gil Vegas's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 70; in favour 6; the contrary,66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u67	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Basque Socialists and the Middle Amendors who signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 70; the supporters of 66; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 6; white; 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u68	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. The fifth point in the theme list. "Motion, Jasone Aguirre Gartanodia EH Collectorian, a project of general law on the visible communication of the Spanish government, against the diversity of language and culture. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Aguirre, representing the EHG team, has the word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Eta, hasi bathe lehen, agur bero bat hor goian dagoen Uruguayaiko lagooni, Andreari, éta baita zuri ere, Koldo. Andrea, welcome to the land of your ancestors, ongi etorri etxera. And ongi etorri also to this Parliament, the popular representation of a part of Euskal Herria. This is what we are, with our clear and our dark, and I hope you feel as welcome here as I have felt in Uruguay. Herri beats Garelako. Besarkada bero bat, Andrea. Well, at certain moments, one has to decide to make a decision, and now it's just one of those moments. We must scratch our language in the field of hearers if we do not wish to lose our culture, our own visible sector. The Paradigma change is complete, and it hasn't yet been opened either 5G or 6G. Netflix, YouTube, Facebook, Amazon, Google are now running, and next to it our EIB, our cinema, our viewers, what are they? Our young and not so young, we consume them in another way, the offer that lies above us. The offer is broader and wider, and now, for instance, there is a series of South Korea in fashion, made from its visible world, with its values, and double youth. That's why we have to make a fast move, and it's got to be now. It would be a shock to the prodigious paradigm, which has come to us in the hearing, to resist the eternal law, eternal slavery, the manner in which we have been able to do it for ever. And to do it again is to create new laws adapted to the new state, to set up measures that will protect us, to form structures. So pick it up. The Spanish Government is determined, and we are at her mercy. An open-outal law, a law, a law... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Let's go. The government of Spain is therefore determined. And we are under him. The perceived law, which leads to Tramite, will be an organic law, and we shall depend on it. PSO-Podemos's government has worked the law of the General Law of Accomprehensible Commissis, because it has been forced to transfer the new Directation of Communications in Europe, and, moreover, it has taken a year's delay, over time. This project of laws, however, is more than one form of legislation, a mere and simple transition. Besides, he's a Plantist, a Conservator and a Mercantilist. Nor is it any more because Europe itself puts bounds to it. The mediatic power of Spain is known to be more subordinate to economical and political power than to other countries in which a democratic tradition is more democratic, and this law is also manifest. The Spanish Government is tickling because with this law the interest of the public function will prevail. Not only because he risks culture and diversity of language. but this multiplicity is only verbal, for no science or need of speech is defined. It is not, indeed, a certain percentage to be seen in languages other than youth, and leaves no room for such as the autonomy of the community to intervene in the platforms. For example, in French Common-wealth, the bills under exchange must be at least 20% of their billing to the productions of Europe or France; in Italy, 12,5%; and in Spain, that number will be only 5%. And within that 5%, other official languages in the state that aren't in the market, the smaller ones also come into the Unhappiness, the Basque, the Galegoans. That's right, not exactly. It is not much to be thought of to know how much of this cake will be directed to the eucaine. Thus, if the population were based on this division, it would be necessary to correct 40% of this 5% of the Catalan, the Basque, and the Galego, because the entire population of the state is 41% of smaller language. It also holds the visual visual council of Catalan and maintains that this quota should be 50%. But, as I have already observed, the law which is preparing the Spanish government will only require an investment of 5%. And behind this there is also a very simple reason: They seek to attract the Madrid to the abodes of those great platforms of which they have been seen, and to which the least obligation and the greatest convenience will be offered, and give them just as much as possible. This is the law: All right. They want to make Madrid a paradise without rules for corporations like Amazon or Netflix, even though at any price culture and language are excluded from multiplicity. For, according to the report of "Extertainment and Media 2020-2024," in the five years following, the visual sector waits to increase %2,8% in the world; and more still in the Spanish state, the growth to 3,3, to 35,000. What options do you want from the underpaid videos and video games sector? And while some of them are doing it, what's he doing? Is Mr. Zupiria doing something to make our audience company attractive? That would be another debate, too. But apart from this, this law also breaks the circle of jurisdictions. The other day, the chief physician of the Culturas, as well as Mr. Zupiria, when we engaged him, expressed this anxiety about the law which is being prepared in Madrid. For the new Law breaketh the part, and management of the Government of public and visible Media; which is the Jurisdiction of autonomous Common-wealths. The clerk said it wasn't fair to create a new stage where the standard of public television management in 1982 might turn upside down; 40 years later, by a general law, and on the pretext of a European directive. And well, we think it very well, that the chief physician should preserve his rights, without doubt. We can't leave them in Madrid, but that's because, after 40 years, there's time to change the government of EiTV, to make it more democratic, even with our natural rights. But that's not the worst of the law they're making in Madrid. The worst is, by this law, that autonomy communities will not be able to control the visible platforms. It is left to the State, at CNC, in the hands of Comision Nacional del Mercado de la Competencia, when it is well known that this control organ has not performed its work historically for want of means. Eleven, that is to say, ten and a half, he has only a worker to follow everything. What to say if he has to follow the visible platforms now. He is not at all under the level of Europe. In order to make a difference, C.C., that is, in the C.C., the C.C., the F.O.C.'s C.C. And that's a refreciative in Europe. Nevertheless, though this panoma be so, Spain will decide for us, though we have a right to it. If we did not live in an anomaly, while at this moment they are making the visible law of Madrid, we should be doing ours parallel here in order to defend our audible circle of vision. In fact, the law of the state does not receive the rules of Europe... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... we ought to be doing it in order to defend our field of vision. For the Law of the Common-wealth receiveeth not so many things as are required by the Rules of Europe; and we may regulate them ourselves. Otherwise, how can we defend ourselves? Are we able to protect small age, or forbid speech of hatred, as we requested from Europe? Are we able to promote and protect the eucalyptics in Europe? Are we capable of regulating video platforms? Are we able to create independent organizations? Is it to create a public council? It is true, as has been said before, that we have not some jurisdiction, but it is true that we do not use our own. And we're late, I repeat, late, very late. There's at least 20 years of delay in the public council. We've got to take a step here and take the line here, discuss it here. Let's do our jobs, Europe did theirs in 2018. The Spanish Government has not yet made them, it is a year's delay, and, as we see, has not advanced from the point of view of defence and defence of values, nor from the variety of language and cults. We ourselves need our own law, adapted to our wants. It is necessary that the progressive legislation which will regulate the visual sector in Europe, in the State, but also in the Biscay, Araba, and Gipu. If the logic prevails in companies, we are at liberty; for companies of the world will be worldwide, and certainly not the sector of our audience. If we have no laws to guarantee diversity of culture and language, the resistance will not be supported in the most favourable cases, and the margin will increase and increase. We have to do it here. That's why the deal we've made today is so important that we have to deal with people in important matters like this. Because it's urgent because the moment we live is decisive. Now's the time. The Spanish Government must change our jurisdiction so that the project of general law on hearing communication must not be violated. The Spanish Government must also change its project in order that its culture and language may be supported by the manifold variety of culture and language, that we may be protected by the people of the national minority and the litigants, in accordance with the criteria of Copenhagen. It must be asserted that within the productions of Europe there also remains a eucalyptus. That's what we agreed here today and that's very important. We must face the great revolutions which we have known so far, not wishing to; we are a small people to act separately. We need to unite forces in front of this challenge of the people, we need deals like today. Education, for instance, has worked a great deal over the past few years and has still a great deal to do, but it can't be done by itself. Our young and young people spend in the most favourable sights a great part of the day and the greatest part of their leisure. They receive certain values by hearsay, they receive culture, they acquire language, but they are not ours. Today, our language, our culture is at a critical moment, and if we do not unite our forces, we will not survive as a people. If we want to survive as a village, we need a solid, well-ordered field of vision, we can't waste our time. We owe it to the people. It's our responsibility to act as a country, honestly, to do our best here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over to the teams who were running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Angulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u71	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good noon, all of you. Euskera, Catalan, Valencian, Galician, Aranese, Astur-Leonese or Aragonese are some of the official languages recognized by the different statutes of autonomy. But there are also the rifeño or tarifit, the Arabic, the Roma, the extremist or the Portuguese of Olienza, and it is that in Europe today it is estimated that about 40 million citizens regularly use a historical regional or minority language. Our society, therefore, is a society crossed by linguistic diversity, which in turn is a fundamental manifestation of cultural diversity. Language and culture are inescapably linked and it is to the extent that we stimulate the first, we will be defending the second. Basque society, in particular, is not at all alien to this issue, since, for a long time, we have been immersed in the task of giving Basque the value it deserves and of guaranteeing the linguistic rights of all Basque citizens. However, and despite the efforts that institutions and society as a whole are making to promote the knowledge and use of euskera, it remains in a situation of great vulnerability and among the different challenges facing euskera in the coming years, that of linguistic normalization in digital environments, and today specifically in the audiovisual environment, is one of the most important. If we had to highlight the historical milestones in this century-old change that we have experienced, for me, without a doubt, the importance that communications have acquired as a result of the development of the Internet and of information and communication technologies, it would be one of the most remarkable. While almost all of the autonomous communities have a public corporation of Spanish radio and television, radio and television, with a fairly important implementation, they are, in turn, increasingly less demanded especially by the youth who have abandoned them with their pros and cons obviously. The progress, the importance that audiovisual culture has taken on is unusual, to such an extent that today it is inconceivable... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...of course. The progress, the importance that audiovisual culture has taken on is unusual; to such an extent that today it is inconceivable leisure, social relations without new chat applications, social networks or video platforms. Technological advances in communication have brought with them a number of social changes of no less importance. And they're giving each other at the same time. At the same time that the old ways of watching television have become obsolete, we find the paradox that the most euskaldunized social groups and, therefore, those who should lead the change and pull the car are at the same time living together, participating and moving in the less euskaldunized spaces and where the influence in addition to the Administration is smaller. Obviously, in the face of these new challenges, such as those outlined above, new measures are needed by the public authorities. Measures to ensure the safety of young people when surfing the Internet or measures to ensure the right to truthful, plural and contrasting information are essential. And also as Basques and Basques we must ensure that our language and culture must also be present in this space. There is little doubt that multilingualism is an absolutely central issue for us. And that is why from our group in Congress they are also influencing the legislative deadline in this regard. Thus, in the context of the debate and the discussions on the preliminary draft law on Audiovisual Communication, our positions are clear and we strongly support the defence and guarantee of linguistic diversity. To this day the preliminary draft law is not definitive. And if this is so, it is by the will of the United Nations that we can not give this subject up. These issues are of great concern to us. And that is why a non-legislative proposal was launched from our group in April, which, among other things, includes many aspects of what we have brought here in this amendment. On the one hand, the bet on content on television channels and on digital platforms incorporating different linguistic translations. That is, bending, subtitling and self-audio-description in the official languages and also in the own and of course in Basque. On the other hand, the guarantee of at least 30% of the contents of the productions is in the official or own language other than Spanish. Despite all the above, in Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we believe that in Euskadi we can be more ambitious and we must bet to broaden the look and broaden the debate. So that the euskera occupies the space in the (ecosystem?) It is not just the new legislative provisions, which are undoubtedly necessary. And, in fact, we could look at other autonomous communities that already have legislation in that regard. From our parliamentary group we believe that emphasis must be placed and it is time for renewal and modernisation in the audiovisual field, and these must be done from the Basque Public Television Radio. It can and should be done through EITB. Steps must be taken to implement this new way of watching television. It is high time the Administration launched the public platform that claims to be that Basque Netflix where many Basque creators can show their works and from this same platform guarantee the linguistic rights of citizens. Or are we going to let big private corporations communicative development in Basque? And what about people who can't afford to pay for payment platforms? From our parliamentary group we are clear: it must be from this public platform that it is the engine and the leader of audiovisual broadcasting. Not only of creation, but also of socio-economic impulse and of linguistic normalization. Similarly, while recognizing the role that EITB should play in all this, it is also necessary to rethink the conditions under which the Euskera folds are carried out. You've brought this Korean series up before; in that series no person has participated to subtitle it, it's all done in an automatic way by a computer program. Folders and folders are demanding fair working conditions. And just yesterday we also read about the agonizing situation and the abandonment that have been given to the folders from the institutions. It is time to reverse this situation. And we must also ask for more public investment, which we know will ultimately directly lead to the socialisation of the Basque country. I would like to underline two issues that we have already... which I have already commented on before. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we have a clear commitment to diversity and linguistic rights. Last week we brought a PNL that talked about... it was very broad, about the Basque. Today we have reached this agreement on audiovisual matters which will guarantee production in Basque in the different audiovisual media. And we also believe that we should broaden the framework and address the debate on linguistic needs from the audiovisual field not only from the competitive sphere, we should reflect on the role of EITB, we should think about the economic development that brings with it audiovisual productions and also the material conditions of audiovisual production workers today. Although we have spoken specifically about the folding sector, we know that the rest of the workers are also having a very bad time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u73	The lady's head. Chief physician. Good noon, everyone. Mrs Agirre, listening to you, I have had to look back at the signatures of the motion, because I sincerely doubted you, I don't know if you have repented of the motion this time or not, but I really doubted whether or not we signed that motion just an hour ago, right? Maybe they're different forms of characters. I like to emphasize more... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] I've had doubts whether or not we signed that motion just an hour ago, haven't we? Maybe they're different forms of characters. I like to emphasize the positive part better, don't I? I think I've always done it here, and I'll keep doing it because I'm like this: underlining what we're getting together, right? And then, we'll always have time to profile and polish what separates us, won't we? That's why I used to tell you in private, that I was in a hurry because my speech was going to be a little short, because, really, I'm going to talk about what unites us again, well, I think it's already a little redundant. Underlining the great importance of the audiovisual sector, well, you have done so; so has Mr Angulo. I believe that, possibly, it is the greatest tool that mankind has had since the twentieth century to generate thought, to generate identities, to generate a collective idea. It's a very powerful tool, and so we've been using it, with all the good and all the bad that it brings, right? We could set an example, well, since the rewriting of the history of the occupation of North America in the enclave of superheroes, cowboys, or we can talk about a thousand stories. The power of audiovisual is really important, isn't it? Another example, for example, I am convinced that as much as we discuss in this forum, or in any other political forum, about the most recent past of this country, the past that has touched us to live, in the importance that films such as Maixabel, or series like Patria, will have to be really more important or with greater silence. I insist, whether we like it or not, that's the real importance of the audiovisual. On the other hand, also in some committee that you chair, I have had the opportunity to talk about my mistrust of platforms and cohabitation among the most minority cultures – let's call them that – the most minority languages and these great platforms that, unfortunately, from my point of view, come to stay, right? Because I see a very difficult and problematic lace. And, above all, for once more, for that idea of building an idea, and above all of homogenizing that idea that many of these platforms may have. I also have to say that other platforms, such as the Spanish Filmin, are doing an extraordinary job promoting national cinema. I don't want to put all the platforms in the same bag either, do I? And I don't want to insist again on the commitment of Euskal Socialists to the support of the eucalyptus; you've heard me say the same thing from this a thousand times. A week ago, we made it clear how important our inheritance is to look after. On the other hand, the project of the general law of visual communication is in process of examination and operation. He hasn't yet been taken to the Minister's Council, because they want to examine the best editor possible. But then, after he's passed the Council, he'll have his parliamentary career. So your team will also have a great opportunity to present and develop corrections. That's the right thing for now. Let's work it out among all the groups until we get the writing that will allow the widest agreement. Indeed, in the preliminary draft law of which you have made so much reference in your speech – and forgive me for addressing you directly, but well, you have been the promoter of this initiative – you are still at a stage of study. In fact, the current Minister of Culture and Sport did not want to present it to the Governing Council, and I believe that Mr Iceta's sensitivity to the co-official languages of the State is well known. Then, at that time, he is still in a process of study and elaboration, before passing through the Governing Council. But you know very well that the stage of process or parliamentary procedure will then open up, in which the groups, and your group is recently demonstrating how to influence and influence national politics as well, will have their opportunity as the rest of the groups, and in the way and way that we have reached a consensus here today, I believe that a bold consensus, and that I believe it is to your liking, just as we have arrived, for I imagine and would like that same consensus to be reached in the drafting of this audiovisual law. Therefore, simply, and to conclude, thank you for the courage and effort and generosity of the different spokespersons or the different representatives of the groups; the first you, Mrs Agirre. On the other hand, Mr Angulo, who until recently we have been working to try to integrate his amendment into the compromise. To Mr Diez, of course, also for the work we have been doing. I think it's going to be a thousand times: we have to protect what is ours. We have to protect what, being a small town, is more delicate and more fragile. And of course, I think we have to protect it with broad consensus, whether here or in the Congress of Deputies; where it touches us. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. The visual sector has been completely changed for the past few years. The digital platforms created have left us a new panorama, which had hitherto been utterly unknown to us. Now, we have access everywhere, we have access to all sorts of production everywhere, almost anywhere, almost anywhere, through almost any device, and almost at any moment. In the same way, the consumption became much more sudden, much faster, more comfortable. Even more flexible. And is that good or bad? Well, what criteria we use to take that test. What we are asking to do here today is to do language and culture in a multiplicity of ways. Well, well, that's what we're going to do. On the one hand, it has its advantages. We will have a much larger and more numerous opportunity to extend the contents of our language and the productions of our culture. That's an opportunity. But it has dangers, too. In our own country, the productions of our language and the contents of our culture will be more competitive. And with more options... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... In our own country, the productions of our language and the contents of our culture will be more competitive. And with a lot more chance here, people here to consume production of other kinds, they may perhaps be less likely to be able to do what they have done. So what's good or bad? It's reality. It is a reality that is neither good nor bad, it is a reality, and it is a reality that needs to be regulated, a reality that requires us to adapt the norms that we had so far and that were created or adopted to regulate other contexts, other realities with regard to the audiovisual world. And it requires us to adapt our regulatory system to the new times, not just the 21st century, let me tell you that for someone of my generation it is starting to sound old enough. We are in the year 2021, the third decade already of the 21st century. And we will have to make it known that these new rules that we adopt will possibly have to be changed in a not too long period of time, because we are talking about a really changing and volatile sector and, I think, we need to be aware that it is possible that in not too long we will be calling for regulatory changes again. And, well, in this process of regulation it is the institutions, on the one hand, that the European Union has issued a directive that must now be transposed by the Member States. On the other hand, there is also the Government of the State which has drawn up a preliminary draft law, which we are discussing here today. And we have to recognise that there are difficulties in dealing with this regulation. It's not a simple task, it's a complicated job. We are talking about a very technical aspect that has very concrete vicissitudes and that moreover, for more INRI, overflows the borders of the states. Therefore, we recognize here that this is a difficult thing. But while it is difficult, we recognize that we also have to warn you, that we are attentive to how this regulation occurs, that we are looking forward to how this regulatory development can affect our country, can affect our culture, can affect our language. And we have to say that too, not only are we alert, we are not only waiting, we are also concerned and concerned, because it is true that what we have seen so far, so we have been able to know about that preliminary draft, because we did not like it very much. And we did want to draw attention especially to two issues, they are not the only ones that draw attention to us, but they are the most important ones. On the one hand, the text we have known does not respect the competence of Euskadi. The legal system that we have in place provides that the State has sole responsibility for the audiovisual sector. This is not fulfilled in this text. There must be a margin left for Euskadi to develop its own scope, and as we have said, this is not being done. And this competitive invasion that we want to highlight here today was not reflected in the original initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu and it is true that it has attracted the attention that is not collected and that is why we wanted to include it in the debate through our amendment, because, as you know, this is a very important matter for our group. If the Basque Parliament is going to make a pronouncement on a future audiovisual law, we believe it is really important that we show that the competition framework is being violated and that we try to safeguard this from happening. And on the other hand, it is a very important subject, and this is what appeared in the original initiative, language and culture, how this pre-generacy, or the law which is to be given in the future. And on the project we've met, a fixed minority percentage is guaranteed for the production of youth-making. But this does not happen with other official languages, e.g. Why does that happen? Is it not worth the same degree of protection as youth? It is also known that the language of euca is diminished, and that smaller languages are worth a special protection, and they require it for their lives. Well, that doesn't happen and we want to ask for that respect here. And this respect, what we demand, is indispensable, necessary. First, because this is the case with regulations, international regulations, the regulations of the European Union, and also with the international treaties. But also, and it doesn't matter less, for life. If we are told that we must live together, we believe that we owe a respect to our language and our personality. And this respect is not only addressed to words, but that respect must be done with actions. And if we are sincere, and I think we should be sincere, no one really doubts that when the time comes to pass the law, if the linguistic and cultural rights of this country, of Euskadi, are not respected, we will be very forceful, as we have always been. We are going to be everything that is necessary, it is going to be the Euzko Abertzaleak Group in this Parliament, it is going to be the same as the Basque Government, which has already submitted a report of allegations highlighting all these issues that we are discussing here today and trying to improve that text. And we are sure that the Basque Group will also do so in Madrid when it comes to negotiating the text of the law, and we hope that the other groups will be too. Look, we're the PNV, and the defense of this country is in our DNA, it's always been, and nothing should make you think it's going to be any other way now. But in case anyone had any doubts, I'm going to take the opportunity to remember. I remind the proposing group, but I also remind the other groups. If our linguistic, cultural rights, our competitive framework are under attack, they are at risk. We're going to be a guarantee for your defense. And if it's in our DNA to defend Euskadi, who as everyone knows it is, it's also being serious people, people who act when they play, who don't rush, people who know when it's time to act and when to wait. And in that we are cautious. Because, as we have said, we are not even talking about a bill, we are talking about a preliminary draft that will pass through the Council of Ministers, which will go to Congress, which will have to be discussed by the groups. So there are many stages left and we are not going to rush... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... we are talking about a preliminary draft that will pass through the Council of Ministers, to Congress, which will have to be discussed by the groups. Therefore, there are many stages left, and we are not going to rush now. Furthermore, as Mr Alonso has already said, as Mr Alonso has already said, there are statements by Minister Iceta that can satisfy us, saying that the competition framework will be respected and that the official languages of the State will take their place. Therefore, we believe that it is better to warn than to denounce, that it is better to urge to improve in what is coming than to complain about the mistakes that have been made, that it is better to negotiate and collaborate to adopt a text better than to confront in order to gain notoriety. That's right, if we have to report it at some point, we'll report it. If you have to complain, we'll complain. And if we have to confront, we will confront. But, as they say, when we get to that river, we'll cross that bridge. And we haven't reached that river yet. We've got a long way to go to that river. So let's all do this thing together. And I don't think it's a bad start to do that, the deal we made here today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u76	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is a very famous article in the Spanish constitutional doctrine, which is called "The Curiosity of the Persian Jurist", written by Pedro Cruz Villalón, a distinguished lawyer friend, in which it is a fictitious dialogue between a Persian jurist and a Spanish jurist. And the Spanish jurist is trying to explain to the Persian jurist what it consists of or how it is organized territorially Spain. And he's trying to explain that it's a centralized state, but then it's decentralized, that if autonomous communities, that if it's... But, well, how are skills exercised? One way and another. But then there are transfer laws, delegation laws, etc., statutes... And in the end, the lawyer ends up, logically, making a mess, because, the truth is, the system is very particular. And the truth is that the debate that we are having today is also a little particular debate, because we are debating a matter that is being dealt with, which is not yet being dealt with in the Congress of Deputies, which, in fact, the Government of Spain, the Government of the nation has prepared a preliminary draft law that is being informed by various institutions now and, well, a parliamentary group legitimately raises a number of issues. But I say it's complicated, because, of course, we have that it's a preliminary draft law, but it's not yet fully registered in Congress, there are reports and then there are a number of groups that, apparently, are quite influential in the Spanish government or so, and it seems that from here they want to influence the drafting of the draft law. Moreover, it seems that there is almost a global agreement for that influence to materialize, with which I say it is a complicated debate. I say this, because many times I have brought you some proposal that, in fact, could touch on a tax issue, a national competition, and all of you ladies and gentlemen, above, metaphorically speaking, with the question that if it is a national question, that this is not the place and such... I respect the proposal which you have tabled and which the groups have finally agreed to. Too bad, because we were going to support, we were going to vote in favour of that of the Government, of the groups that support the Government. But, finally, we will not support it in these terms. Let's see, we were initially presented with a proposal, which talked about a... Let us say, a translation of what is a European directive, that, by the way, this is where I have seen the first worrying issue. Both the original proposal and the amendments to the whole, and the amendment that has finally been agreed, talk all the time about Directive 2018/180. There is no such directive. I understand that they are referring to the European Union directive 1.808, which is not 180, I say so that the legal services of the House take note and correct that, because I understand that it is the directive that is finally going to be adopted, that it is a directive that does what it does is to amend another previous directive, that is the directive on the European audiovisual sector, where a number of obligations are laid down for the Member States. I will give you, ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, some small reflections, as you have already agreed on a compromise that will come forward. But I would like to share with you a number of reflections on this issue. The truth is that the directive is, despite what has been said in one of the intervention shifts or, rather, the transposition of this directive by the Government of the nation, not a mere transposition of a series of rules into this new directive 1,808, but that the Government has taken the opportunity to present a whole new, completely new draft law, which will replace the existing law, the current audiovisual law of 2010, that is, it is not a transposition of issues that, initially, the proposal criticized for being conservative, mercantilist and such... I miss the neoliberal word, but, well, I understand it's been another mistake, but I understand it's another mistake. This, for the next one, I'm sure you can correct it. And it has also drawn my attention to the fact that "I have known that in Spain the media power is not as autonomous as the economic and political powers, as elsewhere". In Euskadi? Are they autonomous or are they not autonomous? A question also of some interest. Let us say, I mean to review the procedure a little bit, when a directive is presented that may affect the internal jurisdictional distribution of states, there is a procedure. If the proposer group did not like what the directive provides, because in the thesis of the proposer group there is a mere transposition of issues that we do not like and such harm us, and we ask that the Government change its draft, the text in the draft law. There is a process, which was adopted in one of the latest reforms of the Treaties of the Union, which is the subsidiarity control of European initiatives. In fact, every time the Bureau sends us the House's agreements it usually includes in the end a brief mention... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... the Treaties of the Union, which is the subsidiarity control of European initiatives. In fact, every time the Bureau sends us the House's agreements it usually includes in the end a brief mention of what this process is, this subsidiarity control; therefore, it is strange that the proposing group at the time, since it has criticized this issue so much, did not make any considerations in this process of subsidiarity control of European standards, they say, Community, but the Bureau should correct it because it is no longer Community, they should be European. That is an issue that has surprised me. As for the draft, the preliminary draft law, which I read with interest, man, because it did recognize, I say, the main concern, which was to make known the cultural and linguistic diversity of Spain, article 50, if I remember correctly, of that preliminary draft, was mentioned cultural diversity. And another issue that arises here is that it seems that there is not enough regulation and there are not enough burdens already established in the audiovisual sector. Now, the current legislation already includes important burdens of allocating a significant part of the higher benefits, if there were, to the public sector, for the production and participation in productions of cinema, Spanish cinema, hear, and also within this a significant percentage, 60% of the 60, which must be devoted to cinema, in any of the co-official languages of Spain. It was already established, the shade what it is, I understand that the shade is that within the co-official languages you want it to be mandatory in Basque, that is, not in anyone, but mandatory in Basque. Well, it's a more burden than if it comes forward in Congress, if this majority repeats itself in Congress, it will be a more additional burden for these companies, which in the end, well, will pay the final consumer. These kinds of issues are not created by you who pass unnoticed, that is, in the end if there is no demand at a given time and I understand that you assume that there is no demand, because that is the reason for being, of forcing to set a minimum percentage even if there is no demand, for man, this is what will be done is that there is, let's say, an impact of expenditure on the final consumer. As for the fundamental considerations, the fundamental criticism that I had seen of the project or the original proposal, was above all the theme of the model to promote knowledge, culture, etc., the majority, minority, etc., the majority seems not to need to be promoted, although it would be good to define what is understood by culture (?) the majority language at certain times. But anyway, there are two options. This up here I think we can all match. There is the policy of incentives, you can encourage and the Basque Government does so, the Basque Government encourages productions, all the administrations of Euskadi, or, as the proposing group says, it does not like the word Euskadi either. The Government of Álava, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia does encourage productions in Basque, but we go, and with a lot of money from all of us. That part is always being implemented, ladies and gentlemen, and I am already hearing about the fact that here I always criticise the Government that much of the budget is not being implemented, that part is always being implemented. Therefore, there is already a policy in this case of incentives, to establish the compulsory policy, that is to say to establish the theme of percentages, which to some extent has already been done, because it can clash not only with regulations, in this case it is free market, but above all because it can impose certain... , may impose certain limitations and conditions on private operators. One thing is that it is done with the public sector, because, of course, the public sector understands that they do not care, they already have it controlled enough, in this case the (?But it also wants to be the private sector, and that is where there is going to be a problem, because if this national legislation comes forward with a text that actually establishes such a level of compliance, it is quite likely that this will end in European Justice, which is quite likely to end in European Justice, and which is eventually considered to be a non-proportional measure, I do not even dare to take the glass ball out here, as the PNV bench tells me, I reserve it for the budget, but it would not be impossible to resort to it. That's why I think that the initial regulation, as it was in the area of language promotion, was... I think it was quite reasonable and I was trying to reconcile a model of incentives with a model of obligations that were not disproportionate, and that's why, and I'm finishing immediately, ladies and gentlemen, and that's why it seemed to me to be quite reasonable. And that is why the text between the two groups supporting the Government also seemed to me to be a reasonable text, it seemed to me to be a very reasonable text initially, the Basque Parliament urges all the competent institutions to respect the Euskadi area of competence, of course, that the transposition of the directive should be corrected. of 1.808, the necessary forecasts to ensure the preservation of linguistic and cultural diversity. It seemed quite reasonable to me, because it is also the text that is repeated both in Directive 1,808 and in the preliminary draft of the General Audiovisual Law. And that's the explanation of the... That is why we will finally vote against the compromise reached by the majority of the groups. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Aguirre is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u79	Thank you, ma'am. I want to be positive, then, first of all, thank you very much for your good behaviour and I know it wasn't easy for you, just as it wasn't for you. I'm sorry, Mr. Alonso, that I overwhelmed you, I don't know, I don't know how you felt, it wasn't my intention, of course, it wasn't in any way my intention. The only thing, I try to go face to face, and as I used to say to the Uruguayan companion, for this is what we are with our clear and our dark. I believe that the agreement we have reached today is quite clear, but this law has quite a dark side, but as you said, it is in process and that is precisely why we value this agreement so much, because we believe that this is also the time for the Basque Parliament to make a position on it. So thank you all, Mr. Díez An Akorsk, thank you all for your hard work. I think the moment demands a deal like that... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... Thank you ladies, for your good behavior, for the effort you've done. I think the moment demands an agreement like this, because our language is living the most critical and critical moment, and we don't have the tools to upset it. And not only for this, but also for you, our young men, we want to educate our society in value, equality, plurality, and we don't want this education to depend on the interests of Netflix or of the Spanish corporations. But we are subject to this much-obvious law in Madrid; and if this law does not make changes, it is not worth while to guarantee the social function of audible people, and it is an important social function, not only a manifold variety of language and culture, but also a social function very important. And further, this law, as has been well shown here, enters not sufficiently into its sphere of jurisdiction, and even into our own. That's why the deal's so important today. The State of Madrid must consider what this parliament requires today. However, we think it's not enough for that. We ourselves believe that we need our own self-evident law. We have a right to it, if we have the means. Let's use them. And, well, let's repeat the agreement that's here. I think it would be nice to do that next step. Let the Madrid go their way, but let's do it ourselves. and it would be a fine thing to create as a people, as a people, with the eulogy of the people. That law may protect and do our value, our culture, our language, and do it for us and ourselves. So let's get to work, as Mr. Achus said, the way we've grown is good and beautiful, and I think it's right. Let's get some strength together. We believe that we are too small a people to divide and to walk separately. Thanks again for your honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. I don't think Podemos should have the word together. Basque Socialist, Alonso, he mustn't speak. Eubertarians, your word is yours. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. One or two things to clear up. Well, first of all, I must confess to Mrs. Aguirre that her first part of it has left me a little lost in some way, because I thought that we were coming here today or today's discussion was the law of what the Spanish government is preparing, or of what is still a bill. And, well, you came here a little to talk about the example of the government of EIB, or to discuss your legal proposition here again, about the visible council. And, I think it was due today for something else-that was today to put us to value what we were doing, and above all for that good and generous arrangement we've got to show happiness. We shall have occasion to discuss this other, and to have a profound or violent debate about it. And if I were to say that it is time to express the joy, or satisfaction, at least for the agreement we have reached, the broad agreement we have reached, I want to say that today I am doubly happy: first, for the good agreement we have reached; and second, because Mr Gordillo liked the amendment we had tabled, the initial amendment we had tabled. And well, in this attitude that he has almost as a teacher to note to us others, I am going to go home today happy because Mr. Gordillo is going to give us almost an approved one. He's been hitting us, but he's going to give us an approval. Mr Gordillo also referred to the fact that he liked our text, but that he does not like the current text. If you had tabled an amendment, you might have been able to participate in the negotiation, but they have not, I imagine you would have been otherwise. But I do want to say that we are satisfied and we are happy with the agreement that we have reached and, in fact, we believe that the agreement that we have reached is quite more natural than having reached one with you. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u83	Soon. I wasn't going to intervene, but, man, since Mr. Díez has questioned me, I'm not going to make you ugly, of course, if I don't give him any consideration, am I? Let's see, the amendment you tabled was an amendment that I think was reasonable, so it seemed logical to vote in favour. Unlike the government groups, which are always trying to deactivate the opposition's initiatives, I see an initiative that is fine, because instead of making an artificial amendment, he proposed voting in favour, and that is exactly what he was going to do. What happens is that you have decided, in the end, to do something different, and good, because today you will have won a vote here and you will actually have a GNP that will be taken and communicated to Congress. But, I tell you, I believe, in my humble opinion, I am not the one to teach anyone lessons, but I do believe, in my humble opinion, that the way in which one seeks or seeks to promote knowledge and the extension, of course, of a language, in this case the Basque, is not the proper way of the system being proposed. The current system, which, I insist, strikes a balance between what is a small... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... the current system, which, I insist, strikes a balance between what is a small percentage with a certain broad manoeuvre in order to be able to devote it to certain issues, that is, between what is obligation and what are incentives, because it seemed to me that it was a fairly reasonable system. That in his day, by the way, his group also seemed pretty good. That is why I simply want to highlight that and highlight another issue, and it is that from a general point of view as well as the promotion of the two languages and so on, which is good to be done and which is of course good to be done by public institutions, the problem is that already public institutions, which are also regulators, are not only agents but also regulators, which are two different things, in the end what is being done is also to regulate and narrow the room for manoeuvre that private operators have. That is why I think it is very important for private operators to have a margin of manoeuvre, because they are allocating capital, money, investments, which then there are also workers and the whole society is benefiting. Therefore, if we want to encourage certain things, then, listen, we are already making a lot of money and a lot of millions of euros, by the way, from our budget and from the budgets of other institutions. Instead, what we are trying to do is to control the private sector, which, in my opinion, is an obsession that leads nowhere and that is going to be, in any case, counterproductive to the objective that was intended to be pursued. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. After discussion, we're going to vote EH Collect, together Podemos Annitz, Euska Sozialists, and Eubertarians have signed the mediumal correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes at the meeting, 69; the votes given, 71; the supporters, 65; the opponents are 6, 6; the abstainations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u85	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of the popular Sea of Euscal-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group of parliamentary bands-of creating a specific unit in the Border to fight against the young men's organized and violent bands. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gordillo, who represents the Basque Group Popularo-Ciudadanos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a non-law proposal is before you today, an initiative which seeks, no more or less, to urge the Government to believe within the Department of Security, specifically in what is Ertzaintza, to create specifically a unit, a specific unit that fights or specializes in the fight against youth and organized gangs. In addition, in our initiative, we call for increased collaboration in this area with the rest of the police forces working in Euskadi, in our land. And we also ask the Councillor and Vice-President, first of all, kindly present here, to appear in this House within a reasonable period of three months, taking account of the implementation of these measures. First of all, a question. Yesterday we all excelled with news that we thought it would never happen in these homes, we saw it on TV sometimes almost ojiplatic, and yesterday we saw that these kinds of issues can happen anywhere. No one is free to attack a person at any given time with weapons, etc., indiscriminately against a collective, just as we are not free from all kinds of violence. In other words, the issue of violence is an issue that is always on the table. The issue of security is an essential one. The raison d'être of the State, of the public power, the first of them is the guarantee of the security of people, and hence the development of their social rights, individuals, etc. I do want to express a concern, and in general terms, the truth is that more and more, and especially the territory of Bizkaia sadly, is increasingly present in the news on security issues. It is an issue that we are really concerned about in our group, and I think it is a concern, I understand, that must be shared by the Government. Therefore, from here the support of our group, mine personally, of course, to Ertzaintza for his work, the extraordinary work he did yesterday, and his work in general, despite the means with which he sometimes does not count. And above all, support for the Government to develop all kinds of initiatives that contribute to a modern police within the constitutional framework, adapted to the needs of society. Well, what is the situation we have in Ertzaintza? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you know her better than I do. The Ertzaintza is one of the few police officers that we say lacks specialized units, or at least not specialized units as have other police forces. Historically in Euskadi there was a certain development, a certain specialization, it is logical, what happens is that after the government, in its moment, of the lehendakari Patxi López, some historical of the place for sure they will remember it, and would also participate in those negotiations. What happens is that later it seems that it was attempted to alter or change that model of police. The concept of proximity police was adopted. Curiously a concept of proximity police in parallel with that concept of integral police, which was so much stated in those plans presented to us by the Department of Safety and Security. And what seems to be is that it was said that the British police, other police, etc. were invited, but the result was that the specialty basically disappeared by units and that in the end a structure was created basically based, as you know, in police stations; regardless, as I say, of specialized units. And the British model, which is also on which this system is based, has already demonstrated its shortcomings, has clearly already demonstrated its shortcomings. In the case of the United Kingdom, in England, in particular, since they have already had, there have been times when they have had to assume or that... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ...they have clearly already demonstrated their shortcomings. In the case of the United Kingdom, well, in England, in particular, as they have already had, there have been times when they have had to assume or face large mobilizations of people, contain, etc. and where deficiencies have been demonstrated, and they have been gradually correcting it. That is why I believe that this is a good opportunity for joint reflection and for the Government to take the decision to have a specialized unit. Did you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ertzaintza does not have an anti-drug unit, a specialized unit as such, anti-drugs? Listen, but what do you say to me, if the issue of counter-narcotics is in the department's Strategic Plan. Yeah, what's going on, Mr. Gordillo, is that you haven't understood it, actually, this works otherwise. Don't you? You can say, Mr. Counsellor, if you were to debate with us, it would be extraordinary. Man, we all have a structure that is based on police stations, etc., such, and, man, in every police station, indeed such. Listen, but there is no specialized unit in this regard, we lack, we lack a unit also in the field of persecution, in this case, of crimes in which the protagonists sadly are youth gangs and which are youth gangs that are organized, that are violent and that, therefore, we must react through the police in this case. That is why we believe that it is necessary to take letters on the matter and specialize. The other police officers who also work in Spain and the majority of the police forces that exist in Europe, both national, federal and federal, in some cases, have specialisation structures. And we in Ertzaintza don't have it. Yes, there are very expert people, there are very specialized professionals and in that is what is holding up right now, I would say that, almost with pins in some cases the whole structure, uh, because we have some professionals who are good and who are playing it there, and that it is a knowledge that they have been acquiring over time and are giving it everything, but the truth is that they do not have in this case the structure or we lack that structure that, in our opinion, would be necessary. And that's a structure, I mean, they all have it. Listen, the issue of organized juvenile delinquency, because in the National Police, for example, it is carried by the Intelligence Brigade, it is carried by the Intelligence Brigade because it is a complex issue, it is a complex issue that affects minors, there are often complicated situations. It is a situation where there may also be, and as statistics show, I do not invent anything, there is also an important component of foreign affairs, that is, it is a complex issue, so it is carried by the elite of the National Police. The question I'm asking myself is why we don't do the same thing with the Autonomous Police, with our own, with the Ertzaintza. Why don't we equip our Police and give the means and mechanisms to equip our Police with a unit in this specialized case. You don't have to call an anti-band unit or such a unit, do you?, the name is the least, that is a specific unit dedicated to this. I insist, the counter-argument essentially here can be, listen, there are people who specialize in this issue. Yeah, but it's about police stations, it's about police stations? The counselor knows that. Is it a structure that's by police station? And, then, here at the end there are many monitoring tasks, in this case. And among the shortcomings we have, that we have 1,000 ertzainas less than we would have to have at this time working. The counselor knows, it's data from his own department, there's not 8,000 right now, I think the last count was 7,041, he'll have better data than me. But, well, it's 1,000 less, 1,000 less. With a number of issues that we will discuss in this House, perhaps at another time. But man, I think it is necessary if we want to give a service to the citizenry and really contribute to the safety of people, I think the police have to be well equipped. This is the proposal. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you of the importance of having a good and well-equipped police force in coordination with the rest of the police forces also working in Euskadi, because the truth is that, in the end, many times because of the shortcomings, it is a little contrary to the political argument that is usually used by the Basque Government. Given the shortcomings that Ertzaintza often has, in the end those who have to solve certain issues are the rest of the policemen who work in the Basque Country, which, to me seems great, seems great to me. But listen, I think there would be a need here for important collaboration between these three key groups and also the local police. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you today, on this last item on the agenda of today's sitting, to support this proposal put forward by the Basque People-Citizens Group to provide our Ertzaintza, the Basque Police, with a specific unit to combat crime. As for the rest of the amendments that have been tabled to us, the amendments to the whole, well, in this case, that of the groups supporting the Government, unlike the previous case, I did not like it here, I did not like it, that is, because here is the typical amendment to the whole, which is "the Basque Parliament urges the Government to continue to equip the Ertzaintza with effective and efficient structures". Man, I just don't think it has effective and efficient structures, so I guess it'll be the proposal that's finally going to come forward. But I honestly believe that there is a great deal of room here, a great deal of room for improvement and a great deal of room for manoeuvre. And here it is a pity, Mr. Counsellor, for here you would have us at your side to actually carry out the reforms that Ertzaintza needs and to guarantee security properly. As for the proposal, the amendment to the whole of the Elkarrekin Group We can, man, because the Bureau is very generous with the mission of the amendments to the whole, is fine. In fact, what is called for is the carrying out of a study and such, which seems to me to be an interesting debate, eh, "to call for a multidisciplinary diagnostic study of the real dimension of crime involving young people in the Basque Country and to present its conclusions in this House together with mechanisms, etc. This dialogue, this study, will be carried out in dialogue with the professional community." I think it is very good that this study is being carried out, but it is not the subject of the debate, it is not the subject of the debate. With this debate I am not criminalizing any group, I am not, I say, because that is what follows from the amendment you have tabled, which seems to be trying to criminalise some sector at all. But if I, you only have to read the press, man, it will be the press that, as the initiative said before, is controlled by the factual powers, but it will be the press that says it, because of course it is the press that says it. And the issue of security, it is an issue that the truth, I, every time today on the street and I stop, therefore, these issues always come out. Therefore, I do not only have any inconvenience, but, Mr Martínez Zatón, if you present this initiative, I would support it... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... Therefore, I do not only have any inconvenience, but, Mr Martínez Zatón, if you present this initiative, I would support it, I will support it, let's go, if you present this initiative in these terms, because it seems to me an interesting topic that can have and that can be very valuable for work and planning, above all, what security can be in a real strategic plan. But it has nothing to do with the proposal that was being put forward today, in this case, the groups that support the Government at least have adhered to the issue, but I insist, I think it is the proposal that you are making, but I honestly believe that it has nothing to do with what we are proposing today, because if there is a real security issue, it is that we are seeing it, because I think that must be done. Above all, it's a topic that's in all the police, it's that all the police are having these kinds of issues, these kinds of problems and dealing with these kinds of problems, and therefore all the police are creating specialized units. And that is the meaning of the proposal that we bring you here today from our group, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u87	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u88	Pick it up on. Mr. Gordillo, you've guessed where I was going, first point for you. The problem is not the text of your initiative. You have a problem, because the People's Party-Citizens in the face of an event like that that happened in Amorebieta, a terrible event that has left a boy in a coma, you quote it in the explanatory statement, and that thanks also to the collaboration between the Barakaldo Municipal Police and the Ertzaintza, because a number of people have been arrested and that is following its path. You have come up with an initiative talking about youth gangs, focusing on a problem that then the data, according to the data that at least we have, is totally minority, we do not say that we do not have to deal with it, but it is absolutely minority. Therefore, if you, as a result, attempt, yes, to criminalize in general a sector of the population, because our work as a parliamentary group is to try to scale up the problem knowing that it may exist, to know what the dimension of that problem is to know whether the measures that Ertzaintza, the Department of Security, has in force at this time are sufficient, or we must take others or we must take others that are not just police measures. But of course, you are very concerned about this situation. He makes a proposal, but what he says to the Government, that in the face of a problem of that dimension that you are talking about, he tells you that the Basque Government will bring a magic proposal in three months here and present it to you by Mr. Counsellor and, well, whether we approve it or not, it will be approved by the Governing Council in three months, as if this could be done quickly and quickly. Surely you have read more carefully than I have the Basque Citizens' Security Plan. There is a series of data, a series of new organized and violent youth groups are identified, and in 2019 it says that this represents only 5% of the total number of actions targeted by minors, and when talking about gangs, I have taken the data, it does not reach 1%. That's the problem there is, no one is denying it, but that's the dimension of the problem that's going on, and it also occurs at very specific times of the week and the night. So, precisely because your initiative is an initiative which you have said, which is in the press, I believe that it is up to us to make serious proposals and to make proposals that can be discussed calmly and calmly in this Parliament. In the same Security Plan it already says that there are two elements in Ertzaintza: there is a juvenile process team, we do not have enough arguments right now to say whether it is enough or not. And from the Plan of Action on this issue of violence by youth gangs, which should also be seen the terms how we use them to be used well when they are minors and when they are older people, we talk about making a diagnosis. Our proposal has gone beyond that, why, because that diagnosis according to that Security Plan is going to be done by the Ertzaintza, only. Our approach to any criminal phenomenon cannot be just a police solution. That is why what we are saying, that this diagnosis has to be made by the Ertzaintza, they have to collaborate with the local police, they have to collaborate Justice, they have to collaborate Administration and they have to collaborate a very important issue for us, which is civil society and especially youth. We have a Basque Youth Council which I am sure would be willing to participate and I am sure that other groups too. That diagnosis, which we have not set a date for and which we know is not going to be supported, although we would like, if not today, to know the real dimension that this problem can have, for what it has to tell us is what dimension this problem has, whether it is sufficient the measures that are being taken or if other measures are to be taken. And from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have it clear, I have said it now, the solution cannot be only police. If this problem is of a greater magnitude than the data at least that we have indicate, and if not that it has to be social and also institutional. And there are other mechanisms that you, since you defined some of the elements of that unit, could have cited, as examples of good practices in other police officers, as are dialogue and as are mediation also with youth groups; long-term solutions, therefore. And yes, he did, as I told him, that he was going to go for the (?) This is what you are doing in full in this House, two plenary sessions, two initiatives to tackle two problems which are, in any case, minority in the young population: the issue of botellones and the issue of youth violence or youth-led violence, I think it could be the term. I think the People's and Citizens' Party has to make him look at the problem he has with people... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ...let's say, I think it might be the term. I think the People's Party and Citizens have to make him look at the problem he has with young people. They have not presented a single initiative against youth insecurity. They have voted against the Riders Act, which protects hundreds and thousands of especially young workers. They will not support the youth guarantee programme that is included in the State's General Budgets. The amendments they have tabled to the Youth Act are in the sense of cutting the progress that can be made in that law and the contrary to the amendments of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita that we are advancing in rights for young people. They do not want to regulate rent, where mostly young people live, because for you, as Mr. Married has said, anyone with a payroll can rent a flat. I think it's up to them to step on a little more street and talk to young people. They are also against the rise of the inter-professional minimum wage to 950 euros, which benefits young people, mostly the first jobs. Therefore, given the low or low interest of the People's Party-Citizens in presenting initiatives to improve the lives of young people and only to focus on the criminalization of young people, our initiative has gone so far as to amend all of its own, to deal with this issue with enough seriousness, with enough time, with enough goodness, because these issues cannot be dealt with lightly. And that is why we ask, although we know that today it will not come forward, that it be studied or that this diagnosis can be made to really know, in a scientific way, if it can be, the concrete data that this phenomenon of violence involving young people can have. This cannot be done, as I say, at a stroke of title, but must be done seriously, calmly and with great consensus, in order not to fall into error. I believe that your initiative, the tone of your initial initiative, although it has not been the one that you have maintained here today, but the initial spirit of your initiative does not go in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u89	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u90	President. Ladies and gentlemen. I have tried, Mr Gordillo, to see in your presentation here what differences could there be with the text that you had presented to us, with the introduction that you had presented to us at GNP. And the only difference I've heard is that there are no effective and efficient structures in the police today to fight against the crime segment that you have expressed here. Actually, what brings us here starts from the events of Amorebieta. That's what it says at the Motives Exhibition. And reasonably, if it starts there and today proposes that there has to be an organizational change in the Ertzaintza to pursue the crimes, it should reasonably have given a certain illustration of how that event or other events around it have not resulted in a successful intervention by the police. That is, if that crime had remained uninvestigated, if practically all the perpetrators of that event had not been stopped within hours, we would probably be faced with an event with consequences resulting in police failure. But this is not the reality. And, therefore, when you propose here the change of organizational model, you do so in comparison with other models. But it does not do so in comparison with other models because there are other models that are more effective than this, but, well, because those other models will give the effectiveness they give, but there is no such contrast as to the persecution of the crime and the result of that persecution. It is clear that if the current organizational model of the autonomous police in a few hours succeeds in arresting virtually all the actors of that event that inspires you here, it is evident that within the police organization there is an important powerful structure, a structure that makes a follow-up and a thorough diagnosis of what is happening and that it has quite motorized all those people who more or less move around this type of crime. It is therefore good that anyone in this Parliament wants to defend a different model of police organisation, but, man, it is quite sensible to do so as a result of the fact that the present one does not produce good results, it is not successful. In fact, even those who put it from other angles of society, because this idea has also sometimes been added, for example, police unions, always emphasize and emphasize that the autonomous police are perfectly prepared to deal with and respond to such crimes. Therefore, it can always be a debate the model of police organization, but it is more reasonable to question it when it does not turn out, when it fails, when it does not produce security for the citizenry. That's not the case. Therefore, here we are faced with a police model that is more transversal, in which the autonomous police, rather than dividing into compartments according to the types of crimes, because it does so in a more generalistic way, but not with less effectiveness and with less efficiency in the investigation and in the results. If you see, in addition, the five-year Security Plan that was presented, Security for the Basque Country, then you will see that there are... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... the results. If you see, moreover, the five-year security plan that was presented, security plan, for the Basque Country, there you will see that there are a number of lines of action that cover absolutely everything. It not only covers the monitoring of the analysis, but also includes prevention, it includes the behaviour of the educational model, the behaviour of family education, the model or level of coordination with the prosecution, with the justice system, among the police, which of course is being done. And precisely because all that is done is why our amendment cannot be in any other way than continuous, because what you propose questions the model, and what we say is that the model is working. And then, it's always good to delve into the media. And it is always good to deepen coordination, and with it to have good results. And that's why, man, we don't start from scratch, we don't start from failure. Then we cannot make any other approach than what we are doing, which is a continuous approach. Certainly, the safety model can always be questionable. In fact, whoever suffers from crime and who has harm as a result of crime, probably no debate or proposal or approach will produce or compensate him for his harm or pain. But the problem is whether we, from this public service that means security, produce enough security, in general, for the citizenry. And I think it is. That is so, because of the assessment you have, that you have a positive assessment, because no one questions that our police is a police that provides security and that is effective. And, therefore, there is no reason for a change of organizational model. It is always under discussion what the means are, because we also talk about the means that the police must provide. Here we have discussed it on other occasions in the heat of other events. And approaches have been made in one direction and another, if the media have to be more or less blunt. This is a debate that is always open. But the substance of this debate is whether or not this debate is a failure. And he doesn't obey any failure. Quite the opposite. And I think it would be good, to avoid and clear doubts, to point out here, and I would like to listen to you that, after the Amorebieta event that produced this GNP, the result of police action has been the result of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u91	Thank you, Mr Price. The word is yours, Mr. Atucha.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. President, First Vice President and Chief Security, Congressman, good afternoon. Well, the corrections we've submitted. ) At the same time it says: "The American lawyer asks the Border to continue to respond to the effective and efficient organization and structure, to different crimes, and to new phenomena of crime and crime that might happen in Eucharin. The Basque parliament asks the MUGREY to go deep in co-working with different police members, to guarantee the basic rights and public liberties of the Basque People." First of all, our amendment is part of a reality, which is nothing other than the existence within the Ertzaintza of means, protocols, strategies and training to deal with this criminal reality, in which we must continue to work and deepen, of course, in this improvement of the day-to-day and in this new comprehensive police project that we want to build from the department. In this regard, we urge the Basque Government to continue with the various initiatives carried out to date. And secondly, we urge the Government to continue and improve as much as possible coordination with the rest of the police, in order to continue to maintain effective preventive action. PP-Ciudadan groups suggest that we create a new unit. And we do not believe that a specific unit should be produced. In this case, a specific unit to fight the young bank. We do not think it proper to create a specific unit for each kind of divergence. That a specific unit is not created, Mr Gordillo, does not mean that an existing reality is not taken into account. In addition, we must bear in mind that the Department of Security already has a long way to go and a proposal that has already been made in this Parliament by the relevant committee, when presenting the Security Plan to which it has already been referred. Since 2018 we have to bear in mind that a stable team of minors is working within the Ertzaintza who, for practical purposes, would constitute, practically, the unit of minors in the Ertzaintza. Why do I make this reference? Because we cannot forget that, in many cases, those who can be part of these bands and, in fact, form them are minors. Therefore, this aspect should be taken into account. In the case of the incidents in Amorebieta Etxano, I think I remember that of the 15 participants, eight were minors. This was an action that, in the opinion of our group, was an agile action, and an efficient action. There is, therefore, a road travelled. Mr Gordillo, in your speech, you have practically made no reference to the justification of your non-law proposal, in which you came to say that nothing has been done or done. And we can't agree. And it's a two-pronged road: minors who commit crimes and minors, victims of crimes. With both realities we have to work and with both realities the Ertzaintza works. We do not start from scratch, but it is true that we must continue, as I said, to take action to prevent its proliferation. Mr. Martinez has pointed out... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... We do not start from scratch, but it is true that we must continue, as I said, to take action to prevent its proliferation. Mr Martínez has pointed out a series of data that are known, are contained in the Security Plan 2020-2025, of what it actually implies, of what it actually implies, quantitatively, this kind of crime. However, if you review the content of the Basque Public Security Plan, you will see that different lines of work are envisaged, including the Action Plan against the New Organized and Violent Youth Groups. That is to say, in that presentation, in which I think I recall that you were present, there is a specific section linked to the criminal types linked to leisure, which precisely deals with this issue. With very clear objectives: identify, detect these new groups and develop a diagnosis; disseminate to the whole Ertzaintza the information related to this criminal phenomenon; raise awareness in the educational and family sphere... Mr. Martinez pointed the same way... to inform in the judicial sphere, to raise awareness in the social sphere, to communicate in the institutional sphere and, ultimately, to ensure public security and to reduce the crime rate and the possible social alarm that can generate such events. As you can see, there's a journey. There's a tour, and there's a planning. He is aware of the problem, and also of its dimension, and strategies have already been designed to tackle it as much as possible. Therefore, we already have specific tools to prevent, act, detect and investigate all types of violence, in this case that can be committed by minors or young people and (not minors?)). In short, we are faced with a model that, well, bets to detect this problem of violent youth gangs, offering an integral response to it from all services and from the entire structure of the Ertzaintza. After all, because of the example of the border in the land of the minors, it has long been observed that the problem of the vanities of violence has been taken up, and has been answered in an integrated answer from all the services and units of the bordering. And this is very important. There is a preparation for the agents at the beginning of the Academy, in updates, and sometimes in others. Since, then, a constant preparation is obvious in this sphere, we must continue to digest and cultivate it. We believe that the instruments implemented by Ertzaintza are demonstrating, in our opinion, a preventive muscle, and a rapid and decisive response to the clarification of perpetrators of serious crimes. To this end, from our group, we will, of course, maintain the affirmative vote for our amendment, and we will vote negatively on the non-law proposal made to us by the People's Party-Citizens Group. Encourage the Department to continue with this line of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u93	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u94	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everybody. The EH Collector is concerned about the existence and practice of these organized violent bands. And we see with great anxiety the consequences which result from them. And I would take advantage of it, first of all, to express our solidarity and full support to all its victims. These victims, from their origin, are either attacked by their etnia, pertenence, or by their orientation, or their sexual identity, or without any reason. Because the victim is unjust, without reason, absolutely arbitrary, and totally indifferent. Many times, apart from their victims, the criminals also come from the wastetable situations, from social neglect, from very hard migrations, from drugs, mental health problems, or from scrutination. Disguised by other components, a dangerous self-reference, blind attachment to the group, dependence on the leader, a collective identity destructive, all of which constitutes a somewhat disturbing cocktail scene. A complex phenomenon, which deserves complex solutions, but in front of it we find a simple solution here: no units either yes or specialized unit. Besides the right victims, there is another victim or other effect, which is produced by such attacks, and it is the security of the people. The phenomenon is unknown, very violent, incomprehensible, and the attacks produced on the community make violence greater, and they give it more impunity to the crime. But, too, a feelingist, irresponsible, and communicative management influences even from political, unional agents, and also criminalizing a specific collective. All this causes fear to spread, to multiply in some degree intense, to lose security in the community, and we cannot allow ourselves to live under fear or under fear. Thus, we face a complex phenomenon that involves a primary victimization – let us say – of its direct victims, again, our whole affection and solidarity with all of them, and a secondary one, towards society, which loses perception of security. And it seems that this can be solved in a simple way, with a police unit. The proponent says that the specialized unit, or the request of a specialized unit, part of the Prosecutor's Office or judicial bodies... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... Police unit. The proposer says that the specialized unit or the request of a specialized unit is part of the Prosecutor's Office or judicial bodies. I have not found such a request, if any assessment or assessment to the contrary, and it also speaks of trade union centres that would request this specialized unit. And, indeed, in addition to a concrete fact that happened in Zornotza, Amorebieta, it has also been a police union that has made statements, which must be put in a context as well, and which actually demand a unity of these characteristics. And I put it in context because it is at a time of union elections and a time when they also want to face those elections, confronting the department because it is a chaos of organization and because there is a terrible internal disorganization. This member of the union says that there are four very dangerous and very violent bands, and says that there are other 24 companies which fill the lesser and less violent crimes. And I'm worried about this, that porque means that, from some one who knows the body in a certain way, he almost suggests that this is not doing anything, that there is no will to resist these bands, and even if they're detected, the edge has no will to resist. And my question is, if there's no will to create a unit, then would it be willing to do some of those highly-known police specialists technical specialists? I don't think it's serious to make a unit. I don't think the simple answer to a problem that's so complex can help at all. I see the initiative as if it were taking a rabbit out of the Xister. Eta are gehiago spango nuke, Mr. Gordillo tells us that almost any policeman, throughout the world and wide that is valued, has a unit of these characteristics, I don't know if an anti-band unit or an anti-crime juvenile unit. I've been looking at other experiences from other police forces and I haven't found a specific unit to deal with these kinds of crimes, and I'd ask you to point me out one. The state accounts for around 450 organized bands – five years ago – and most of them have the epicenter in Madrid. Well, the National Police sure is police reference for the proposer, has 16 units of the most diverse: GEO, TEDAX, Technology Research Brigade, Canine Cavalry Unit. Well, you don't have a unit like the one you're proposing. He says, "No, they're taking him from Intelligence." Sure, and a lot of other things. Is there a specific unit as you are suing? Well, I want you to point it out to me, tell me that at least, the Civil Guard, a lot of units: Citizen Security, Traffic, Mountain, Sepronal Service, Maritime, we've talked a lot, doesn't have a specific unit. Mossos d'Esquadra, and they also have a huge problem in Barcelona. There are research specializations, specializations in several fields, they do not have a unity, but in France, which have more serious problems throughout Europe, they do not have a specific unity. It's more. They have decided that this cannot be dealt with from a specific unit, but that it must be the whole of the police collective that knows, that is formed, that knows how to deal with these facts, or in the United Kingdom, the British National Police, does not have such a unit. And I'll tell you again, tell me a single model of police structure with a unit of this style so we can have a reference. And I don't think it's either units or not, but the only answer that's police, the only answer to the police structure or police resources, or whether it should be answered from other sectors or from other departments or not. If the government, PSE, and PNV, have an initiative which they bring in, let it be applied to the arrangement of the present day with structure, and, well, they have no units in any way alone, but they take no further measures or is not necessary. And I think self-collarity is made from a point of view. In fact, the police must do their work, and I shall not take it off; We ought to reflect on what can be done from education, from social services, from medical health, from psychosoricities, from culture, and employments, from justice, from justice, and from justice, to prevent such a phenomenon. I'm worried that you're proposing to cooperate with the police, co-workers. And I'd like to ask you, Mr. Atucha, who are these members of the police, whether you're planning to cooperate with the company of the Basque Police, or whether, as we discussed last week, you're threatening to cooperate with the National Police and Civil Guard. And the question is, whether your scheme is to co-work or to the closed limits of the rights, as you proposed last week, to take the Civil Guard and the National Police' jurisdictions, or to put them out. As I'm saying, if there was any unit or no initiative today, we didn't run any correction because we're on the negative. In fact, we think it's not a simple solution to this problem. And the answer, as I say, is no. [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ...that this is not a solution that we should propose to this problem. And the answer, as I say, is no. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u95	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing the answer round, representative of the popular-Ciudad Group, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u96	Thank you, Madam President. The reasons the groups claim are different, diverse, aren't they? To begin with the order that you have made, that of Mr Martínez Zatón. I would like to stress again that you are presenting the initiative you have presented here as an amendment to the whole as an autonomous initiative, and I will support it, because I believe that it is good and it is indeed necessary that this type of study be carried out, and I will approve it. But I also think that the proposal that I was bringing here, the operative part, now if you do not like justification, but the operative part I think was quite necessary. He's... I think he's accused the group of criminalizing and so on, and I don't know what's going on with the youth. Listen, (...) youth... If you are referring to the debate on the other day of the botellones and to the current debate, criminalise nothing, quite the opposite. Man, we criminalize criminals, yes, of course, but we criminalize a sector in a preventive way, at all. That, by the way, part of the argument used by another spokesman and to which I shall now refer. He also didn't like the three-month deadline for the counselor and so on. Man, here when we want to run a lot, huh? The issue of prisons and so on, this has been done at a record time. The bylaws are already in place, so... I think we've already run. When you want to run a lot. And I think this is a matter where we should have a certain speed. That's why, man, you don't think my proposal would be serious... He may or may not like it, but I do believe that modern police, at the present time, even though the unit is not called juvenile delinquency specifically, it is carried by a group within intelligence, for example, which is what happens in the National Police, which, in fact, is a police that can be a good model for trying to copy or imitate things that work well, for it is the least. What's less is that there's a little sign on the door, and so on. No, the important thing is not that, the important thing is that there is a specialized group, it is called as it is called, that normally the European police, look at the complexity of the issue, they are introducing it into what are the intelligence units, the advisor knows well, because of the complexity that this has. All groups have recognized the complexity of the problem and the seriousness of the problem. All groups have recognized it. Look, I think the proposal that was being put forward was not bad. I didn't do it alone. It has also been done by a majority union of the Ertzaintza. I mean, it's not me anymore, not our group, it's the police themselves who question the model. It is the police themselves who seem to be questioning the model. It does seem important to me, because then Mr. Martinez Zatón... Well, man, if you'll allow me leave with all fraternity, for man, here you've come to talk about your book, talk about the youth plan and so on. It wasn't that. I would like to insist once again on this: I will support this initiative, but that was not the debate. Mr Prieto has, in my opinion, made an excellent defence of his position. What happens is that the argument doesn't convince me about the following, that is, you say, no, because there has been a crime and the police have reacted, is that the model works. It's just that the police have to equip it so that these things don't happen. That is why, normally, these types of units are often incardinated within what is information, intelligence or what we want to call it to prevent. It's just that, of course, your argument, Mr. Prieto, is that it's dangerous, because it says to me, "No, listen, you recognize that it works; a crime is committed and the police react." Well, of course, of course, I recognize the police. By the way, one thing is the police, the other the government or the police management. They're different things. I'm the police of course I recognize him. And to the Ertzaintza, more would be missing. Extraordinary work, and especially with the means they have. But that's not the point. The point is that what needs to be done is precisely to prevent it. And listen, I don't know, it seems that our group is the only one who sees these issues, that it is an issue that needs to be tackled and that we need to investigate and that we need to give the means precisely to prevent things from happening. To prevent things from happening. Man, when they already happen, of course. Of course, when they happen, of course, the police arrive and do their job, of course, indeed. But I believe that here we have to equate the police precisely so that they can prevent it in a preventive way. It seems to me that this is the role that we have here as Parliament. That's why I, ladies and gentlemen, believe and... well, Mr. Arzuaga has made a number of considerations there about unions and so on. By the way, I think the union elections want to be postponed by the department, but, well, that's another matter. I am not going to go in there, but I would like you all to reflect, or to reflect, ladies and gentlemen, on the matter. We have a police organization from what is the structure, which is different from the others. Hey, so this... maybe we're the only ones who're right and the rest of the cops are wrong. The only one with this kind of organization. And man, I think you could take a walk. And that is why we have made this proposal, which is not intended to be a titular proposal. Man, of course, there is a justification and, of course, there is a certain situation, and I will end immediately. But, man, it's just that I... You will accuse the press of sensationalism or whatever, but it is that every day I breakfast with a problem of these. And the truth is that the issue of security is increasingly troubling me. And it will not be the last initiative we have brought to this House on security issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u98	I told you in the first round, but the programme of your initiative, which we also have problems with the content, is also a programme of opportunity, of the moment, for the reason. You have presented an initiative to raise the alarm about an event that everyone, here, logically, rejects, we support the police work of the Barakaldo Municipal Police, of Ertzaintza, of justice, (solidarity?) With the victim. I think we all agree on that. And they bring an initiative to focus on a problem that exists and that everyone wants to fight, even though we haven't finished agreeing on all the methods, but as has happened... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ... the focus on a problem that exists and that everyone wants to fight, although we have not finished agreeing all the methods, but as it has been so long, you too are forced to go down to the rostrum and lower the tone and generate another kind of debate. But the answer, for our part, is exactly the same. We do not agree with what you are proposing because then that consensus, that complex phenomenon of organized violent gangs, that minors besides that a very minority part can be protagonists of some crimes, mainly as it has been said – I think it was Mr Atutxa – are also victims of those crimes, and it is a problem that worries society as a whole, but I think that they have to be managed by police means yes, of course, but by more multidisciplinary means. That is why we proposed that this study, which is introduced in the Basque Public Security Plan, should have a greater involvement of other types of agents than just police officers, because we know that it cannot be a police-only response to such a complex phenomenon. And fortunately, we live in a very secure society, but we have a problem, and I think it has also been said in the rostrum, that the perception that citizens have about their own insecurity is greater than the real insecurity that exists on the streets. And I believe that from the public authorities we must be responsible for this situation, not denying the reality of what is happening, but not amplifying it and, above all, not using populism to expand a focus. And I'm saying this, for example, the Bilbao City Council commissioned a series of surveys from some survey women to reflect what is the reality of the situation in the city of Bilbao. They called me not so many months ago, but we also knew this from previous legislatures. The number of questions that are asked and the questions how they are formulated about the feeling of security, lead to that feeling of insecurity being fostered in specific cases that happen, and that must also be changed, and in that we also have to be responsible for all of them. And I am not going to be a government squire now, but the issue of prisons does not confuse the haste that has taken place – and that we, while supporting it, also criticize it with the creation of Aukerak – with the debate that has taken place in this House over the past few years on the prison model, which we certainly cannot agree with in everything, but this House held a monographic debate on the prison model and there are a lot of resolutions in that regard. In other words, I believe that the hurry neither in prison management nor in security policy will be good advisors. That is why I was telling you that I know that a process in which, Mr Erkoreka, I had to come here to the three-month one to address only from the Department of Security a phenomenon so complex that we all share, that we have to deal with it and work on it especially in a preventive way, is not going to be able to solve it either from the police point of view or even in three months. We also have the initiative, I cannot guarantee it, but what I would like to see is that on an issue that, verbally at least, we are almost all agreed here, we may at some other time agree on some common initiative to address this phenomenon. You haven't contacted the rest of the groups either. Nor have we had a very broad dialogue, let us say, with the groups of the Government. It is a missed opportunity for the positive and negative parts of what is being done to continue doing the same. Therefore, nothing will change after the adoption of this initiative and we will abstain from the initiative of the groups supporting the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u99	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u100	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Gordillo, I believe that when you took this initiative you rushed and perhaps meant something else that you have tried to explain in your reply today. But I think the initiative didn't reflect it, it didn't do it right, it wanted to take a turn and, well, it feels good to give it that turn and we can keep talking about this and other times, as you have announced, about the given turn. But you did not propose a prevention policy, you proposed creating a specific unit and you say exactly "to fight organized and violent youth gangs." This is not prevention, this is something else. This is what you proposed. Because, among other things, prevention is not a policy that should be given only from the police, prevention must be done from the whole of society, it is a cross-cutting policy, it is a policy that has to go to the causes that can motivate such acts of violence, which are multiple and therefore are due to all areas, are due to the economic, social, educational and all areas. I do not believe that this prevention is reasonable to be entrusted to a specific unit of the Ertzaintza, because it would not have the capacity to do so and, moreover, that is not its function and mission. This is the approach you have made to us that of a specific unit to fight against youth gangs and organized crime. And, well, as we've explained, this has been a rush because it's not preceded by a police failure, but it's preceded by a police success. Why does what happens next in Amorebieta practically stop everyone? Because there is a job, but a job of years, a job in which when a police union says there are four organized gangs and 20 gangs, it's that those gangs that are organized, those templates the police have detected, and they track them and know who they are, where they are, and that's why when an event like that happens, you can act quickly. Obviously... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... a follow-up and knows who they are, where they are. And so, when an event like this occurs, it can act quickly. Obviously, they act because there is a crime, because that is the role of the police: acting at that time, because prevention in some cases, as you know, is absolutely impossible. Would you be able to tell us how to prevent someone from taking a knife out of their pocket and keying it to someone else? Would you be able to explain to me how to prevent a person from looking at him in a certain way from assaulting another person? Would you know how to prevent such unwarranted, absurd, unmotivated violent attitudes that we see many times in subway images or elsewhere? Without going to other violence that can have another cause and that can have a cultural animodism or that can have a cultural confrontation when the violence is directed towards people of another color to our or certain sex or whatever. Good. But, as you well know, there are many times (adaptations?) absolutely spontaneous violence that depends on the individual personal behaviour of that citizen and, therefore, such prevention is absolutely impossible. I don't know if the event that causes you to come here is a process that... is an event that was planned and, therefore, according to your knowledge, could be prevented. But I think he has mixed some things with others, and in the end he has had a little churrito as a result of which he has brought an initiative perhaps to the hit of a newspaper headline, but not from a sufficient reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u101	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u102	Chief of the Basque Laws. Mr Gordillo, it has been a short time in the People's Party, but I believe that one of the fastest immersion processes I have ever known, because it has already taken its toll on one of the mantras of the People's Party, which is nothing other than the battle for security, for the story of security, for generating in public opinion, beyond what quantitatively and qualitatively and objectively could be expected, for generating alarm, for generating a state of opinion. It is still curious that those who have made the most efforts to prevent the Ertzaintza from counting all its troops today as it becomes the scourge of crime and the adalid of security. But, well, we'll see how far that immersion process that is experiencing very fast, meteoric as I told you. Training has also been discussed here. And I'm only going to give you some examples of the formation that Ertzaintza receives, the subbertzains and also the sheriffs, that there are. For example, in the Career Plan offering in 2020 by the Arkaute Academy, police treatment courses for minors, refresher courses and refresher courses on violent organized youth gangs, dedicated, intended for ertzainas. In the memories of the Prosecutor's Office, which I know you've read to them, Mr. Gordillo, surely. The Office of the Prosecutor working with the Arkaute Academy in the formation of the Basque police. Investing in training is investing in long-term security and investing in prevention also of our agents, of those who have to... They have a mission to protect us on the streets. He's working on it. This is not new because the July incident in Zornotza happened. No, no, He's been working for a long time. There's a way down. There's a bet made. I do not remind you again of what is said in the Security Plan, which we have already reminded you of in the first of the shifts. And, above all, Mr Gordillo, you cannot change the lines of organization, of any police force acting to the punch of the headline. You can't. It's not the best of options. And of course it is not our choice, the choice of the group Euzko Abertzaleak. In conclusion, what we are asking from our group and encouraging the Basque Government and the Department of Security is to continue the line of work that it is already doing, which, as Mr Prieto said, is being effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u103	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u104	Yeah. Thank you. Mr Gordillo told us that this unit was being sued from the unions, from the Prosecutor's Office, judicial bodies. We know that from the unions, from a specific union, it has been sued. I have tried to find out what the judicial bodies or the Office of the Prosecutor are asking for and all I have found, which is the Office of the Prosecutor, calls for the coordination of various public and private services, the use of mediation systems negotiation, the dissemination of information, the mobilization of the community. And he ends up saying "use the criminal justice system," that is, the police response, "only when it's appropriate." A minimum ratio of the criminal or police system. But, indeed, there is an instruction from the State Secretariat of Security that says "labelling the problem under a single legal response seems to be far from providing effective answers." And further, if it be considered, the V. of Young Justice speaks of 2020-2024, of an alternative measure: the measure of preventions, the judicial measure, the outside of judgment, the measures of redemption, the measures of rehabilitation, and the therapy. But he accepts it. And maybe... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... the measures of prevention, the measures of judicial measures, the preventive measures, the measures of redemption, and the measures of rehabilitation, etc.... But he accepts it. And perhaps here's the problem: To apply these new measures, it is often impossible to appeal to the proper and modern infrastructure, and because there is no competent workman. A test problem again. And I think you've come here to tell us, because I asked you to give us just one example of a policeman who has a unit of these characteristics, and you've answered me, in a way, with the history of the unit that is dwindling: I want a unit, and if it can't be a unit, let it be a group within a unit. And what's next? A specialist inside...? And, in the end, I think you have diluted so much the claim you made, that I question, precisely, what was the focus you wanted to put, and if not as mentioned by Martínez Zatón, whether it would be the criminalization of youth and generate alarmism and sensationalism, in the heat of concrete facts that are focusing on a particular sector. 'Cause it looks like he's only worried about a bunch of bands. The Movement against Intolerance indicates that there are 200 ultra-right bands in the Spanish State, with between 10,000 and 11,500 members. And they're not that young. And they're not that young. And many of them, perhaps, are even infiltrated into the police. And it generates victims, specifically 81, in the last 30 years throughout the State. And it generates a perception of insecurity and fear, but not so much, because it seems that you do not care so much, and because it seems that you do not want to put the focus there, because precisely you want to put it elsewhere. And, Mr. Atucha, I'm sorry I asked you a direct question. And, certainly, it will serve us for another consideration, which is: You work with other police bodies. And I'm asking you if it's among the police euscals, the City Hall and the Border, or those other police bodies, state Security Forces, that makes me worried. I know that these days, in Aran, the Civil Guard has made a few searches in Gasteia and Labastida. And I'm asking you if that kind of cooperation is what you put on the table. Let's see if that's what you put on. I hope you knew they were going to perform this operation. In our country, in this case, you consider this operation of the Civil Guard as a good practice. In other words: Whether it's the type of cooperation and cooperation, the Civil Guard and the National Police, or the surrender. Whether it is a cooperative or substitution approach. That is, if you are going to assume all those powers that the Civil Guard and the National Police are still arrogating, and that you yourselves value as a threat within the General Security Plan 2020-2025, or if you are going to go to a replacement scheme, in which you are going to sharpen all those powers, you are going to sharpen all those spaces of intervention and, indeed, the Ertzaintza will act as an integral police, controlling all the police activities that are practiced in this territory. And that will be the thought or discussion we must have in another moment, because you have somehow avoided it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u105	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. After discussion, we'll put the original text of the proposition as the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 68; the votes given, 70; the supporters 5, the opponents 5, the contrary, 65; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u106	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzer's full-line correction. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 68; the votes given, 70; in favour 6; the opponents, 64; abstentions, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u107	So it's not accepted. Finally, the Basque Socialists-We'll vote for the full corrections presented by the Aubertarians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 68; the votes given, 70; the opponents, 40; the opponents, the contrary, 24; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-14.u108	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at three o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen.
