ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let each of you sit in your seats. Good morning and welcome all of you to the legislature. Single point in theme list: "The general discussion, the 43th of June 1981. which was foreseen in article, and in 193 of the Parliament's Rule. 195 of the Parliament's Rule. as the article goes, the discussion will begin with the President's speech. Once the description is finished, the meeting stops until two-thirty in the afternoon So, in my name, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u1	Congressmasters, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, rulers and representatives of the people, good days to all. 18 months ago, on March 13th, 2020, the Euskín declared a health attack. Two days ago, on March 11th, the World Organization of Health declared pandermy; and one day later, on March 14th, the Spanish Government declared the state of alarm. The Pandemia has made us live an unusual period in history, and now she will make us live. He has nothing to do with what he has been living on our lives before he can be compared. Such situations have lived in all the countries of the world during Eukadin. The impact may be different, but the pandemic influences the whole human race and requires solutions to the global point of view. Our first memory is with the victims and their families. Euskadin, until yesterday, 469 people have died in some way or another. All over the world, the number of the dead has been over four million. We're close to this reality. We're all related. We're related. We're close friends. The feeling we share is respect and mourning. This feeling leads us to support severity and seriousness, and puts us in the heart of empathy by those who have most suffered the shock of the covida. We'll always keep that memory in the Gasté Semperviens park. Next Tuesday, September 21, we'll remember all the people who have died again. The first year of legislation was marked by pandemics, and on September 3th, 2020, we had a meeting of inquest. 12. It began to get better, and the New MUDY started off. Since then, we could call it "covid eclipse," and have lived a stage, which has been necessary and important to give a proper answer to the pandemia. At the present day positive tendency has been strengthened. In the world there is a battle against the pandemia in the difference between the grafting-lands, and in the uncertainty of the appearance of new variations. In Europe, the key is to get the homogeneous level of global insertion and go forward with the larger integration of public policies. In the state, the goal is to close up the sixth wave and finish the insertion. Euskadin, New Year's Eve. Our focus on the planet is to stabilize the virus influence and approach one phase after the pandemia this year. Yes, yes, it's all over, all public institutions, even society, that's the priority we've begun to take care of the health and the life of the people. But I'm not forgetting my commitments to his program, and we're still answering. In any case, it has been our privilege to pay attention to the people, families, and collective persons who have fought the covida most. He hit us hard. We have had great difficulties, we have made mistakes, we have often been conditioned by new and unknown circumstances; we have learned how to advance. I confess all the questions we have passed, especially those of the first months of Pannonia and confination, a year and a half ago, in the preprejudication. We had trouble following up contact and infections. Difficult on the network of our public services. We've had limits to the trusty information chain, the organization of resources, and the attention of citizens. It's difficult to start the logistical operator for mass disorders, conditioned by supply dependencies. We haven't sometimes been able to transmit the certainty to society. We had to handle Pandemia from ignorance. I'm a world-wide... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... sometimes transmitting certainty to society. We had to handle Pandemia from ignorance. For reasons which cannot be foreseen in the world's vagueness, in the medical area, and in the scientific area. It is true, however, that by science we have advanced. I have confessed the degree of pandemia, the imperfections that have caused him not to know how to make and how to effect. I confess that it cost us more than was necessary to give an answer in front of a situation of great worldly anxiety. I don't know if we've guessed that we were still in the pandemia situation, and that we're still in pandemia with everything that comes to it. I don't know why we've been explaining why we've taken the measures. It must be admitted that we authorities have no answers to everything, and in a situation like this we have been dealing with the method of trial. Considering the state of legislation and justice in which we lived, the difficulty of making decisions according to the gravity of our jurisdiction and the hierarchy of values, we ought, as in some northern countries Europe, to make temporary laws based on errors of trial. And by this means, to correct formulas that have no adequate result. For all that reason, I admit that perhaps we have produced involuntary negative sensations. So I want to thank you for understanding the complexity of the situation. And I also wish to be grateful for the nobility which society has shown to us to take upon itself the decisions which at every moment are most proper to us. We appreciate the position of society throughout the Pandema, we confess. Thanks to all our efforts, we were able to bring together a circle of working together and approach each other. By this means confidence has been raised, and fruitless quarrels have been avoided. The Pandemy began in the preprejudication. The elections of July 12th, last year, opened the door to a new legislation. I wanted to make this public critical confession in the parliament, and I do it again with all my modesty. We've suffered the most serious, social, emotional, economic crisis of many decades. The difficulties, pains, and difficulties which society has spent in this time, deserve this critical consideration which I take upon myself in the first person. This reality, which we are living in the whole world, will serve as a positive experience. All critical situations give a chance to learn. We've always learned from crisis, and what we learned gives us a chance to build a better future. I understand the time we live in: it is a point of reflex, and after a year and a half, we are at the door to start a new cycle. I have shared with the head of departments the need to increase the effort, to unite the will to the collective challenge which this pandemy proposes. This discussion on General Policy represents the possibility of a new beginning. A chance to share the social, economic, sanitary, and emotional principles of Euskia. In the first part of my speech I shall sum up the balance of what has been done in all the fields, and the struggle against the virus has been the chief feature. In the second part, I'm going to perform the evaluation of the progress in the village targets. On the third, I will offer a diagnosis of the situation to share the foundation of the Euskakia Suspera strategy. In the fourth part, I will explain the immediate contests of our government, and I shall make a proposal to confirm the investment, to transform it into the new Basque period. Part one: memory of what he had done. In accordance with the commitment we owe to society through our program, it is the purpose of our memory to account for it. In the first hundred days of the happy days, we've made the foundation of our program for the legislation. After creating a new coalition on the 8th of September last year, we accepted the program of legislation on October 13th. On the third of November, we agreed to resurrect the economy and the job. On November 10, we accepted the bill of legislation that includes 36 projects. On December 15, we agreed to 16 Plan Extras representing the backbone of fun management. On December 29th, we accepted the Basque Next Program. This program collects projects from Euskka to get European funds. And the priority of this stage has been a pandermy test fight. At the same time, we prepare the bushes necessary to ease the negative consequences of the pandemia. Today, after 18 months of fighting and sacrifice, we've got a bigger team defense. Euskadin, from 90%, has received a vaccine, of course, from above 12 years of population. So we can confirm that we are at the beginning of a new hope. I shared a self-critic approach. It is also advisable to remark that we have advanced. Since June 24th, we have a law of our own against the Pannonians. This law ought to assure us of the legal security which ought to be taken within the limits of our jurisdictions; it updates the institutional structure to answer the pandemy of the covida; it places indicators and stages before a similar state, and regulates the province of the citizens' rights rights and duties. With health management, the institutions have contributed an extraordinary effort to facilitate the effects of pandemies in the economy and employment. This effort has been an additional over the general measures of the Spanish Government and the European Union, or the general measures. In the case of emergency, there's been an additional breathing help for companies and autonomists and families. - Oh, my God. [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... It was an additional help to breathe in emergency for corporations and autonomists and families. This additional effort made by Eudele in the town and the town halls is evaluated in 5,000 euros. The result of this economic effort is reflected in the objectives achieved: Education. The maintenance of face-to-face education has been ensured, with more than 99% of the classrooms open throughout the past school year. The teaching and reinforcement staff in the dining or transport service have been strengthened. Face-to-face education is of great relevance to social life. This is what we tried already in April last year and it was possible to put into practice the following month, in the previous course. Public services and health. We live in complex times to manage public resources. There is a need for a minimum exercise of responsibility in their defence. A clear example is our health system. We value what we have when we need it. Satisfaction and pride in our health system, with Osakidetza, must go hand in hand with a sense of responsibility to strengthen the sustainability of the system and its credibility. It is important to stress that Osakidetza also during the pandemic has continued to improve its health infrastructure. Thus, among others, we have launched new health centres in Aiete, Donostia, Murgia and Bilbao. Social assistance. Support for those most in need whose economic problems have been compounded by the effects of a pandemic which also leaves more inequality between countries and continents has been significantly strengthened by EUR 179 million. Residences. Attention to older persons has been improved with more intensive and effective coordination between the Government and outlaws. On 23 August we reached an agreement between all Basque institutions to advance a new epidemiological protocol for the socio-health field. Support for economic sectors. Aid to the sectors most affected by the restrictions has been increased; I am referring to hospitality, trade and tourist accommodation. Euskadi is the community that has supported this sector most with its own extraordinary measures. This resistance plan for hospitality, commerce and tourism was launched in 2020, has been continued in 2021 and has been complementary to the Spanish Government's support measures. These two years we have allocated EUR 121 million to aid and grants programmes, including the approval this month of a new line of grants of EUR 12 million for night-time business. The field of culture has been another sector that has been severely affected. From the first few weeks we activated three calls for aid for companies and professionals who had seen their activity interrupted or diminished. Investment in special cultural aid amounts to almost EUR 10 million. Employment. Our Government, in response to the agreement of the Social Dialogue Bureau, has approved on Tuesday a further extension of the additional aid of EUR 150 per month for people affected by ERTE and with annual income of less than EUR 20,000. This aid is complementary to State aid from the ERTE, which was launched following a proposal from the Basque Government following the German model. Equality. This is a central objective of our programme and is present in the development of all public policies. I particularly highlight the joint work to eradicate the scourge of violence against women, the establishment of resources and services for victims of male-based violence or the telephone of permanent attention. The bases for recovery and transformation are under way. The pandemic and the health strategy have caught the attention of society, but we have continued to work with a view to the full implementation of our programme. We have overcome the first critical phase of resistance to respond to the economic and employment spheres. However, we are aware that we are facing a process of global transformation. It is not enough to return to the precovid situation of 2019. We're talking about a deep renovation. A new rebirth, Berpiztu. The Budgets of 2021, the highest in our history, and Berpiztu have been two of the fundamental instruments to boost investment and employment. In addition, in March, the Berpiztu Governing Council approved an additional extraordinary fund of EUR 180 million to promote 25 tractor projects in the preferred areas of activity. This project responds to a request from this House to help the regions of Enkarterriak, Ezkerraldea Meatzaldea, Oarsoaldea, Aiaraldea. They are the most punished for the latest industrial conversions and have suffered most intensely from the economic impact of the pandemic. I now turn to the budgetary situation. The agreement reached unanimously at the Basque Public Finance Council on 15 July was particularly significant. In this context, the new methodology for the distribution of resources and the determination of the contributions of outlying members to the Euskadi Budgets for the five-year period 2022-2026 was approved. On 27 July, the Governing Council adopted the bill, which has been referred to this Parliament. Our aim is for all Basque institutions to be able to draw up their budgets for 2022 with the new methodology. In the relationship with the State, the agreements reached in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert on 29 July should be highlighted. Among these agreements is the one on budgetary stability, which gives us certainty in relation to the deficit and debt horizon. These agreements, together with the recovery of the Basque economy, are the necessary basis for facilitating expansionary budgets with a strong public investment component. I reiterate here my offer to jointly analyse the budget project and to be able to move forward on an agreement for the next financial year, which is key both to recovery and to the transformation phase. In Euskadi we have taken the first steps to face the triple transformation... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ...exercise, key both for recovery and for the transformation phase. In Euskadi we have taken the first steps to face the triple global transformation: technology-digital, energy-environment and socio-healthy. We do this from the Sustainable Human Development model and the 2030 Agenda on four pillars: innovation, sustainability, social cohesion, self-government. All this thinking about the person. One. Innovation. Our commitment is to increase government R & D budgets by 6% on average annually. This year the increase has been 9 %. We have approved the new 2030 Science, Technology and Innovation Plan, which includes public-private investments of the order of 20 billion. We must congratulate ourselves on the achievement achieved by the Basque Public University in the Shanghai ranking, consolidating itself among the 400 best in the world. Scientific research will receive a boost with the reinforcement of Ikerbasque and the IKUR 2030 Strategy with a four-year investment of 100 million euros in neurosciences, quantum technologies, neutronics, supercomputers and artificial intelligence. Scientific research will therefore receive a boost. Our aim is to place Euskadi as a leading European region in innovation. We have made progress because the European Union's latest report has described Euskadi as a region of high innovation and a reference point in Europe. This report recognises a solid industrial base and high technological content, the commitment to innovation in the productive fabric, the internationalisation of the company or the high degree of university degrees. Industry, its competitiveness and roots, are fundamental to our economic model. In May our Government authorized the creation of the public society Finkatze Kapitala Finkatuz with an initial capital of 160 million euros, expandable to 300 million euros. It represents an instrument to facilitate public participation in the capital of Basque tractor companies and thus contribute to their root in Euskadi. We have approved the Euskadi 2025 Digital Transformation Strategy. We will consolidate the Basque Cybersecurity Centre, chosen as the promoter of a European fund that aims to boost investment in cybersecurity companies. This fund is attended by 42 staff members. In April we presented the Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan 2024 with the challenge of consolidating Euskadi as an attractive ecosystem for entrepreneurship. We have strengthened TKNIKA, Euskadi's Centre for Applied Research and Innovation in Vocational Training, appointed as the Centre of Excellence for the European Community. We are incorporating innovation into the cultural and creative industries. Basque culture also plays a key role in the process of international creation, dissemination and projection as a sign of collective identity. Culture is a key factor in Euskadi's integration, cohesion and projection. Culture is an element for inclusion, also for social transformation. From an investment point of view, rail transport contributes to improved mobility and reduced environmental impact. Progress is being made in the works planned by Eusko Trenbideak. The works of the Basque "Y" also advance. The final deadline for access to Bilbao and Gasteiz is pending, but I trust that before the end of this year we will reach an agreement. We are willing to explore any possibility that does not entail a delay in the set timetable. All this activity is aimed at promoting the creation of more and better jobs. To this end we have started a process of renewal and reform of Lanbide to enhance its character of guidance, mediation and, above all, job integration. We have adopted the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, which addresses the recognition of the subjective right to training and work activation. The Social Dialogue Bureau has been an agglutinating and driving force behind the improvement of employment and the tripartite agreement between administration, social and economic actors. This Tuesday we signed five agreements on the fair digital transition to industry 4.0; Vocational training; equality between women and men in the business sector; extension of support for people in ERTE; and new employment niches. We are also improving and innovating in social dialogue. Innovation, industry, internationalisation, entrepreneurship, employment, investment and social dialogue are the fundamental keys to this first pillar of transformation. I reiterate our readiness to move forward from dialogue and collaboration in these areas. So, it's a new one. Two, bearable. Power and environment transition must be a tool to improve the population's life quality and an incentive to transform companies. Prepresences, and countries, which acquire a clear wager for patience, will have the advantage of competition. In May, we presented the project of Basque Green Deal, in a tolerable development of the spirit of the Green Testament of Europe. It's our commitment to induce us to transition projects into neurotic transitions: In East, Equiola or Europewave, Euskita and Scotland are the chief, and 50 percent financed by the European Union. That bet on the neurotic transition and the retracting energy... took a lot of time in February, because I'm telling you, Myrgy Intellgence Center started running in the Middle-Left-wing Technology Park. This park has 40 million euros in investment. It's gonna take 50 companies and create 2,000 new jobs. The project will be essential to develop the hydroge technology of Eukadin. On the other hand, we're working on preparing the plan to Preventuate and Management, inside the circular economy strategy. This plan will receive investments around 100 million dollars in the next decade, recycle, recycle, recycle, and re-use. All this means that the pressure on the present garbage can be reduced. As for that, I want to talk too much about the dramatic collapse of the horsebar dump, 2020... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... The pressure can be reduced. As for this, I would like to mention the dramatic collapse of the horsebar waste on the 6th February 2020, Joaquín Beltran and Albert Solozin. It's been a busy month. We had to cancel Joaqín's search on the 14th of May. When we communicate to his direct family in private, we shall have a permanent personal relationship with them. After August's work is over, work is done to stabilize the dump. Now, the company will be able to shut down the dump once, so he won't get any debris. "Mama has opened all the administrative and judicial investigations required, and it is clear to the whole extent of the circumstances which had caused this dramatic collapse of the legislation which had been made earlier in conjunction with them. We hold this commitment to transparency. And we pledge our solidarity to Alberto and Joaquin's families. Our responsibility is to try to keep something of this kind from happening again, even if it happens to the company that owns the dump, like this time. The destruction of the cavalry has been decisive in enterprise to promote the strategy of the circular economy. On the other hand, we've agreed to a bill of the Environment Administration and a bill of law to preserve the inheritance of nature. Our conversation has always been orientated by the declaration of climate emergency received in July 2019 along the path of commitments. Mygetic transition, retractable energy, circular economy, biodybertsity and a battle against climate change. We'd like to proceed on those shafts, as co-workers. One, innovation, two, tolerable, three social panics. Three-quarters of our budget resources to guide us to the social police, and we keep our commitment to provide quality services to all the citizens. Pandemia has strengthened the policy of society. In the second week of school education, I want a short cut to make a reconnaissance for professors. Professor, the model of the preparations is the essential element of our educational system. Our desire is to confess to the teacher a more social record, to make him know the importance of his work in the future development of the country. Education is a basic instrument for our future. Society, in general, and the men of social society, in particular, require an extensive conformity within the sphere of education. That's why our goal is to advance a new educational bill and accept it in 2022. A starting-point agreement is required: Educational agreement. The moment we get out of this crisis, it will be a key beyond the actual dimensions, and our ability to prepare for people with a high degree of valuation. The real wealth of a society consists in knowledge. Now the best investment is education, learning and research. We have to confirm the traditional values of preparation. Basic critical thought, intellectual precision, honesty, dedication, mind, motive. Human law, social responsibility and helping discipline may be to overcome these complex moments. But there must be other emotional factors: care, motive, search for quality, and efficient science must be the principle of our activity. Our commitment lies in the constant improvement of education. As a basis for creating a talent for education. The talent we must be able to attach and attract. We're engaged to digitalize public school. Every student has a computer at the 5th grade of the First Education to the 2nd grade of the Batxier. We're just doing the plan, and we're planning the new plan. The new plan that will develop the transformation through applied intelligence will be to create value by accelerateing network co-workers. It is our decision to improve the abilities of the integrated profession and of the great cultural profession, to promote talent, to impregnable woman and to create corporations in the Educational Circle. Besides, we're extending our training experience to college, and we've agreed to international 41 masters or degrees. We've created Cluster CSIU to promote cultural industrial and creative industry. We have accepted the Digital Environment of the Basque Environment with a 24-action proposal. In this valley, the evaluation of the second edition of Eucharation has been positive. We are working together with the rendezvous, and with the public institutions of the euca country to encourage and encourage society to resist. It belongs to everyone in the Euskara. Koldo Michelen said: "As our people ought to have their place among nations, so must language find its place among languages, without hazards of grandeur, sufficient place to secure duration and growth." You can only do that with great approval. When almost 40 years ago the Basque Act was accepted, an important agreement was obtained which has produced a great leap on the eucalyptus. The three axiss, columns, usages, and public consent are the three axes, and the consent of the language in force. In the case of equality, he has adopted a bill of changing the law of equality, and we have sent him to this legislature to make his proper destination. We have presented a project called Social Covenant, which is favorable to the equality of Eucharists, and contrary to the Machiist violence. This equipment is designed by the United Nations' organization international generation Equality... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... We have introduced a project called Social Covenant. This equipment is located inside the project designed by the United Nations Organization. On the 27th of July, we accepted the bill of law of Historic Memory and Demrastic Democratic, and, on the 31st of August, the bill of the Basque Agency called Options. In June, we sent the foundations of establishing a new example of prison based on the Restaurative Justice. All this, in the circle of Human Rights, Collaboration, and the Means of plurality, called Spring 2024. I repeat, the critical and sincere memory of our near past is extremely important to predict violence and radicalization and to face them. For this purpose the basic premises are two: He who will despise education and clear message, based on human rights, without hesitation, or the justification or praise of any violence. On the other hand, we have accepted the bill of law of youth which is being transferred to this Chamber. It is a project that seeks to promote an indirect policy, which is the principal object of advancement as much as the production of young Basques. Today, it's over 30 years, one of the highest in Europe. Part 2 of the Social Services. We're doing the Stratic Plant to boost a transition to a new model. A more common example, focused on the person and his contacts. We're making steps in a new model, pushing the strategies supported in May: the strategy to aid the socio-sanitary and the family guardians. Our goal is to help elderly people have independent lives in their own home and around the community and in their family. On the other hand, we're finishing the reform of the present law to guarantee incomes, to improve our present financial costs, and to ease our demands. In order to complete the reform, it will place more incentives and more prevent fraud cases. In this section of the cohesion of society, the attention of the refugees is inserted. To protect humanity, the respect and protection of human rights, the love of solidarity, of persecution, and poverty that inspired the project of generosity and Europe. These are the basic values of our SHER proposal to the European Union. As Europeans, we cannot look on the other side, we cannot stand with folded arms before the drama of people and families who flee to seek shelter and shelter. Our conscience must enlighten us. We must be able to give a solid and humanist response to this terrible situation. It's everybody's problem and we all need an answer. In the security area, March, we submitted to this parliamentary law and agreed to a new 2025 new plan of Public Security. In the course of this summer we have seen the conduct of political views, which are extremely anti-democratic, and which ought not to be protected, nor to have any place, without doubt to accuse and reject. In combat with the Pandemia, these behaviours from the standpoint of common health are indifferent, and they conceal from it an egoist and insolidary idea of the general concept of freedom. Borders and municipalities deserve the protection and support of democratic institutions, political forces, and of the whole society. In the housing area, our community is a leader in building rental housing units. Last year, 30% of all the rentals started all over the state have been Eukadic. We have made it very evident in the application of the subjective right of the housing, that more than 6,000 families have exercised this right. Besides, we've got our young friend's program to answer the request of the young housing that we can get. We're holding up the goal to reduce the deserted homes and help to get them out of the market. We've raised access to housing and community, energy energy energy and resurgents at 40%. Innovation, sustainability, social cohesion. Four: self-government. This pillar supports the previous three. More self-government, more chances of prosperity, more sustainability and more social policies. Self-government is synonymous with well-being. I begin by stressing that this year we have made a proposal to the Conference on the Future of Europe through the charter of regions with legislative powers. The 16 signatories propose an institutional transformation since participation. Among other signatories, Catalonia, Valencia or Balearic Islands, Flanders, Tirol or Salzburg, Vorarlberg or Corsica, we aspire to a unique European Union Partner Region Statute. It is important to participate in this vision on the future of Europe. Today, this future raises more questions than answers. Despite the timely disagreements and moments of stagnation, the European Union has been shaping itself as a project of peace, freedom and social justice, also as a defender of multilateralism and dialogue between cultures, as an area of welfare and social commitment committed to cooperation. It is a priority for the European Union to take on a greater role as a global player, beyond the action of its member states. In this spirit we will take advantage of our presidency to give impetus to the project of the Euroregion New Aquitaine-Euskadi-Navarra. We count on the basis of the new 2027 Strategy... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... our presidency to give impetus to the project of the Euroregion New Aquitaine-Euskadi-Navarra. We have the basis of the new 2027 Strategy, and we will relaunch the areas of work of the Knowledge Economy, Training and University, Euskampus, Innovation, Business Competitiveness, Logistics, Transport, Sustainable Territory, Culture and Tourism. We will also promote renewed cross-border governance and close cooperation with the Commonwealth of Iparralde. The Euroregion project is key to achieving greater EU investment in the Atlantic Corridor. We must get more attention from the Community institutions to the impetus of the European Atlantic Arc as an area of development, collaboration, economic and social progress. We advocate the creation of an Atlantic macro-region that will better respond to the challenges posed. The "Euskadi Basque Country Framework Strategy 2025", which we will adopt at the end of the year, is the basis for strengthening our own institutional network abroad; for increasing direct participation in international networks; forging a global Basque community; and for fostering collaboration with social, economic and cultural actors. Continuing with self-government, and within the framework of the bilateral relationship with the State, in February I held a meeting with the President of the Spanish Government, with the aim of addressing the management of European funds and the schedule of outstanding transfers, among other issues. The result of this meeting is that we are advanced. In May, the Joint Transfer Commission met to approve the transfer to Euskadi of four outstanding subjects, including the management of prison facilities. We have a long way to go to comply with recognized self-government. We continue to try to negotiate the remaining outstanding issues on the basis of the agreed timetable. In the area of collaborative governance and bilaterality, the first four-year meeting of the Security Board between the Basque Government and the Spanish Government was held on 18 June. It was agreed to strengthen the role of Ertzaintza as a full and integral police force, and its access to international bodies, so that it could carry out surveillance work in the 26 countries of the Schengen area. In March and July, meetings of the Joint Economic Concert Commission were held, at which important agreements on economic and fiscal self-government were adopted. The concertation of the Tax on Financial Transactions and the Tax on Digital Services, as well as the adaptation of the Concert to the new VAT system for electronic commerce, allows us to have additional resources. These agreements also involve the consolidation of the Economic Concert, also in taxes of an international nature. Finally, the fifth issue of the Euskadi Sustainable Bond, worth EUR 1 billion at 11 years, has been successfully implemented with a demand that has tripled the amount offered. This basis of economic, budgetary, financial and fiscal certainty allows us to develop responsible management of public finances in favour of sustainability, economic recovery, entrepreneurship and employment. I reiterate our readiness for dialogue on the basis of the Economic–Budgetary Guidelines document for the negotiation of the budgets for the financial year 2022. Part two: results on country targets after the first year of government. I have outlined the main actions of the Government in its first year of legislature, coinciding with the fight against the pandemic. Innovation, sustainability, social cohesion and self-government are the values on which we are articulating the transformation of Euskadi. I'm aware of the storm we're going through. Aware of the shadows of this first year, that we have made a huge effort to resist. Aware that we have a great journey of improvement. Self-criticism, humility and a spirit of continuous improvement; these are the keys to our management. Beyond the shadows, the Government has kept the long lights that have allowed us to hold the course, despite the storm. It is clear that we have not made as much progress as we would have liked, but fortunately we are maintaining the direction and objectives for this parliamentary term. The results achieved in the ten country goals are the reference to a management commitment to public accountability and transparency. First country target: reduce the unemployment rate below 10%. The unemployment rate for the second quarter of this year, published by Eustat, is 10.3%, the lowest in the state according to the EPA. In August 2019 the number of people affiliated with Social Security was 956,000, in August this year they have been 953,000. That is, only 3,000 contributors less than before the pandemic. During this same period, the number of people who stopped registered was 116,000 two years ago, and it is 122,000 today. We are close to regaining the level of employment we had before the pandemic. Second objective: to exceed 40% of gross domestic product in industry and advanced services. Today they represent 38.4% of our wealth. Both the fall of industrial activity and the restrictions on international trade have burdened the push of this sector. In any case, in August 2021 the industrial production index recovered the fall of the previous year. On 20 July, we approved the Strategic Plan for Industrial Development and Internationalization, with a budget of €4.1 billion, and the challenge of consolidating industry as an engine of the Basque economy. Third objective: to achieve convergence in R & D with the European Union. We aim to achieve 2.2% of R & D expenditure on our gross domestic product, in line with the European average. We are the autonomous community that devotes the most resources to R & D from all over the state. This year's budgets have increased by 9% – as I said – and our commitment is to maintain annual growth above 6% by 2030. Fourth objective: to place Euskadi among the five European countries with the lowest social inequality. We're in sixth place. Possibly, the pandemic has increased social differences and we must... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... with less social inequality. We're in sixth place. Possibly, the pandemic has increased social differences and we must redouble our commitment. In any case, according to Eustat, expenditure on social protection per inhabitant in Euskadi is 8,900 euros, above the European average and 39% above the State average. We are among the three European countries with the lowest poverty rate, according to Eurostat, and among the top six in the GINI index that analyses the degree of inequality of a society. Fifth. To place Euskadi among the European countries with the highest rate of gender equality. This is a committed and demanding goal, yes, but also exciting. We are in the ninth place on the index of the European Institute for Gender Equality, we are not satisfied, we want to keep moving forward. In this commitment, the draft of the new Equality Act, adopted in November and in parliamentary procedure, is an accelerant to further progress on equality and better combat macho violence. The 6th target: It's a tax for leaving school to be below 7%. This indicator of Europe is one of the ends of tolerable development; the education of a country is a fundamental reference to the degree of equity and efficacy in the system of equity and education. The rate of leaving Euskadian school is 6,5%, under the average of Europe, about 10% of Europe; and under the average average of the state, 16% in the state, Euskadin 6,5%. This is the end which he has contributed to the expenses of public euchar teaching; 60% of each student's average in Spain. Seventh point: To prolong the hope of life until the age of 85. The hope of life is one of the essential indications of the index of human development. It is the mirror of a healthy life and an efficient health system and a quality. Two years ago, Euscadian life hope was 83.9, one of the highest in the world. We have no official data that influences the pandemic, but we may say that the expenses of the eupscal health system have increased, and that our public health is regarded as the highest quality and efficacy of Europe by independent professional institutions. 8th point: Restricting gas flow from the heat effects to 30%. The last data we've got is from 2019, which means that we've reduced 27% of the heat effects gas mission, and that we've improved the die of half and a half the year before. In this legislation we have several undertakings which will assist us in obtaining this end: political relations to the circular economy, Basque Green Deal, the law projects of Nature and the Environment Administration, the design or the strategy of Biodybertsity. 9th: Getting retal quota available for 20% of the last power consumption. In 2019, only 14,6% of the latest consumption energy that came back, we'll make a lot of power to improve that quota. We stick to our commitment to develop photovoltical energy projects. Myregy Intelligence Center, the Eolic strategy and the Hydrogen corridor of the Eoliean Park, and the goal to get more than 100% of the electrical energy by public administrations from retractable sources. The price of electric energy this summer is a warning to speed up the emergency transition we're pushing. New _BAR_ target 10: A 10% increase of birth rates. It's the purpose of a country that demands personal and social commitment. We have four prioritys to face the demographic: The new law of youth to help increase the birth rates, to attract attention to the inclusion of the immigration, and to the years of age. The principal object of the law of youth, sent to this parliament, is to advance the functions of the younger. Familiaries and children make up the foundation of social transition strategy to the equality of women and men. This was the progress of ten popular targets proposed a year ago. To attain these goals, it is necessary that they should conform to the action agreed upon between the institutions and the social initiative. In sharing this public evaluation, we open an opportunity to continue the critical diagnosis, to encourage cooperation, and, after all, to improve the service we offer to our people. PART III: Keys to retrieve Euskadi. In order to begin this third part, I would like to remind myself of the plan I discussed inquest. In fact, we're still living a serious and profound crisis. In the presence of this situation, the privilege of the institutions ought to be the protection of the citizens, in the first instance, by the most beautiful services and societies of public affairs. I continue to trust the initiative of our institutions and the management of our auto-organizations. In the same way, I want to express my trust in the opportunity of an update of the self-interest. I share five bases for my co-worker. Age 2030, resurrect, Euskadi One: Targets for 2030 and sustainable Development. On June 29th, the Council of Government accepted the program of 2030 Agenda priors. Since the 2018th year, the United Nations took part in the Police Foro of the High Level every year in New York. In 2019, I presented the experience of the most bearable Euskitadi bonu in the United Nations. In 2020, ELGA, that is to say, the OCDE strategic report showed Euskaki for inserting the sustainable development targets, city and region... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... that is to say, the strategic report of OCDE marked Eukawa for the grafting in the objects of patient development as an example of cities and precursors. The European board has presented two reports, insisting on the work which has done from Euka to establish the goals of sustaining development in its territory. This is the first foundation for a shared commitment. That's the legacy we want to leave. Two: Reread the plan. It has two targets: to refresh the economy, and to promote employment. We're engaged to invest 13.250 million dollars. From this investment we expect the following results: To promote 1300,000 jobs, help create 6,000 companies, or a new autonomous business, join the European project 800 research projects, and help the 10,000 Eukadian economy company. Reset Plan's development and evaluation is the second key to collaboration. Three: Euskadi We propose to share our proposal in the Restauration and resilientism of the Chinese Union. The institutions, together with private agents, have agreed to a special project more than 16 strategic projects and 200 to transform the country. The investments will be tolerable, socially, both environmental and economic. A total of 18,300 million dollars' investment. Thanks to these European funds, we can speed up the transformation projects, and we'll have to do these projects anyway. It's the third key to Euskadi Next aid. Four: Law-promises. The legislation calendar received in our government program is made up of 36 initiative. Up until now, half of those yells started off: 17 Laws project, with which three different groups of government support the government, and two law billed bills of budget, change of 2020, and the budget of 2021. We're working on another 12 laws project that will be sent to the legislature this year. Some of them are significant: the change of the law to guarantee and to promote incomes, the survival and change of climate, the public health, the cooperation of children and teenages, the rights of physical activity and sport or state of users. Projects that are being transmitted and which we will soon send are also keys to cooperation. Five: More carbernier and better. In these two last legislatures, the power formed in this legislature has given us a way to clear up the state of our political self-generacy. I agree with this view, in three volumes: the self-referred and wavering self-control, the self-resisting and necessary self-government which is to be admitted and transferred. I begin by asserting that the competitive erosion of the transferred self-government is as serious as the continued breach of the recognized self-government. The Department of Public Governance and Self-Government, through the Basque Institute of Public Administration, has published the book La Erosión Silenciosa. This report notes and documents that the competitive invasions that Euskadi has suffered in recent decades verify the weakening of the competitive capacity and, ultimately, the erosion of the Gernika Statute. Beyond the relation of outstanding matters, it is necessary to point out a reality of great calm and impact. This is the evolution of constitutional jurisprudence which is narrowing the margin of statutory reading. It gives the impression that we are witnessing a progressive change in the political rules of relationship between the Basque Country and the State, which seem to pursue a new, more uniforming relationship, with a more managing central administration and oriented towards the re-centralization of political power. For this reason, progress in self-government is not only about obtaining the outstanding transfers, it is also about looking back to ensure that the Statute of Gernika remains alive and continues to imply recognition of the identity of the unique Basque people, differentiated and constituted by the ownership of historical rights. Secondly, I am focusing on the self-government recognized and pending transfer. Self-government is the core of our project for Euskadi. In this House we share the objective of full compliance with the Statute of Gernika. In January 2019 the Spanish Government agreed, for the first time, a commitment to complete all outstanding transfers. In addition, by October last year, competition with respect to minimum living income had to be fully transferred. The Basque Government remains determined to move forward on this timetable and to bring this institutional, legal and political dispute to a definitive conclusion. Thirdly, I refer to the necessary self-government. In this House we share in a majority the need to deepen self-government, adapted to the new reality of the European Union and within the framework of a territorial model of the State that needs reformulation. The Statute of Gernika represented the recognition of the identity of the Basque people and has made it possible to continue the institutionalization of Euskadi. It has enabled us to achieve the degree of progress, well-being and social justice that we count on. It is now a matter of agreeing to modernise that form of a unique and bilateral relationship that symbolizes our historical rights. The updating of historical rights should include an effective bilaterality mechanism. Self-government is pact and connects with our best foral tradition. In this very rostrum, in a general policy debate, I have affirmed that Euskadi is an outside nation. Our system of self-government and institutional architecture is unique. We're a plural country. I look to the future from historical reality. It should be remembered that on July 21, 1876, 145 years ago, it was promulgated and... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...historical reality. It should be recalled that on 21 July 1876, 145 years ago, the Abolition of Arab, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa Act was enacted and enacted. This liquidated the legal-political framework in which we had lived the Basque territories. The peculiar democratic representative system, which was already conditioned by the formula, I quote, "without prejudice to the constitutional unity of the monarchy", since the Bergara Convention of 1839. Now we are faced with the opportunity to reach a new pact that recognizes our national reality, the uniqueness of Basque self-government, establishes a bilateral relationship with the State and favors the international presence and projection of Euskadi. The updating of self-government interferes with a deeper roots in the historical rights that protect and respect the Constitution, and which, in a straight line, entrusts the general updating of that regime outside the Statute. The model of Concert and Economic Convention, which was not in reality a privilege, but an imposition following the abolition of the courts, is posed as an effective reference point. I appeal, first of all, to a greater public defence of the model of Economic Concert. I also advocate an extension of this mechanism of success to a new formula of Basque political concert; that is, mutual loyalty and legal certainty in the exercise of an updated self-government with the objective of individual and collective development and well-being. A self-governing vertebrate. A political concert formula that responds to the majority social consciousness and helps solve the so-called Basque problem. A concert formula that, in compliance with the single additional provision of the Statute, the first additional provision of the Constitution and the second derogatory provision of the Constitution, allows us to fully reintegrate into the courts; that is, to repeal definitively the laws of abolition of the courts and return to sovereignty prior to 1839. A concert formula that consolidates a political system of coexistence. This option can be opened up in the constitutional order, establishing an instrument that preserves bilaterality with guarantees of compliance with the agreed. The basis is a concerted system that prevents the unilateral modification of the new political pact reached. This Parliament is the forum for representation, dialogue and political agreement. We have the opportunity to complete the work developed by the Office of Self-Government. I pose a shared challenge: to reach a strong consensus in this House on a major project of self-government. This consensus must make it possible to materialize the majority desire of Basque society, concrete in an update and deepening of our self-government. This is a shared basis for progress in the relaunching of Euskadi, the Basque nation, the nation of equality, solidarity, social cohesion, progress and well-being. Part Four: commitments for immediate action. I begin this fourth part by stressing 20 priority commitments of the Government for this course at the service of the Euskadi revival. One: prison policy model based on restorative justice. Two: development of the new Equality Act. Three: Human Rights, Co-existence and Diversity Plan, Udaberri 2024. Four: generational renovation of the Ertzaintza, consisting of 8,000 professionals. Five: adoption of the Act on Contributions and implementation of Budgets 2022. Six: implementation of the Euskadi Next European Funds and Support Programme for small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed persons. Seven: bet for the cultural and creative industries through the KSigune Cluster, also prioritizing the euskera digital environment. Eight: Development of the Basque Centre for Artificial Intelligence, BAIC. Nine: creation of the Euskadi Delegation in Paris, and opening of commercial economic offices in Tokyo and Seoul. Ten: Euskadi's participation in the World Summit of the Planet, COP 26, Glasgow. Eleven: consolidation of employment in essential public services, especially health and education. Twelve: plan for the renovation of infrastructure in education. Thirteen: Extension of Dual Training in collaboration with 5,000 companies. Fourteen: Interinstitutional agreement on the response to the demographic challenge, including direct birth support. Fifteen: Income guarantee income reform. Sixteen: reform of Lanbide and new Basque Employment System. Seventeen: Gaztelagun programme for access to youth rental housing. Eighteen: support for the digitisation of the tourist and commercial sector of the Basque Country, an impetus to the urban trade of proximity that gives meaning to the lives of the peoples. Nineteen: Transitional policies towards a new model of social and social health care. Twenty: portfolio of benefits of the new Health Plan and Public Health Bill. These are our commitments for the same year. They are included in our programme and constitute a substantial part of the social contract that we maintain with Basque citizenship. We are committed to improving and modernising public services through the digitisation of the Administration. A modern and efficient administration, transparent, open to citizen participation, committed to quality, honesty, continuous improvement and good governance. People are the focus of our attention, are the axis and objective of all the public policies of our Government. In this connection, with the aim of economic recovery and employment, I present an immediate initiative prepared by the Basque Government to boost investment in Euskadi. This is the Investment Plan, with the beginning of the same year. The agreements reached in the Finance Council and the Joint Concert Commission offer all Basque institutions a guarantee of fiscal, financial and budgetary stability. Execution of the current... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... to all institutions a guarantee of fiscal, financial and budgetary stability. The implementation of the current budget and the proposal for 2022 provide us with the opportunity to push forward a plan for employment-generating investments. The expected scenario is global economic recovery. The five components of economic sentiment offer a favourable perspective. Thus, they improve industry, services, construction, retail trade and the trust of families. The scenario in Euskadi is of growth of the gross domestic product by 6.7% this year, and 5.7% the following year. This growth will enable the level of pre-pandemic activity to be reached, as well as the recovery of public revenues. In this scenario, the extraordinary investment plan begins to be implemented with the resources we have, and will continue in the budget proposal for 2022. The amount of this extraordinary programme will be EUR 250 million, which will be in addition to the more than EUR 1 billion that will come from the 2022 budget proposal and the recovery and transformation funds that will come from the European Union. The total investment capacity of the Basque Government for the next year will be EUR 1.6 billion. The financing of the extraordinary programme in 2021 comes basically from the remainder of the treasury and transfers to the budget. This additional capacity will be allocated to four investment priorities: -Social infrastructures: educational, socio-sanitary, cultural and housing. These projects will cover 50% of the programme. -Economic infrastructures: industrial, technological, and digital. Its objective is to intensify the transformation and diversification of industry and advanced services. -Energy and environmental infrastructure. The goal is to put us at the forefront of new renewable energy sources, biodiversity and the fight against climate change. -Communications infrastructure. It is time to speed up the projects under way in railway and port matters. This investment plan offers an additional opportunity to materialise the spirit of agreement and cooperation that I have put before this Parliament. I'm done. Euskadi's revival is also an emotional and soulful revival, after a social, family and personal experience as hard and difficult as the one caused by the pandemic. Lessons learned call for strengthening the principles and values we share: commitment to people; Auzolana, Euskadi common; sustainable human development model; and the relaunch of Basque Country. The relaunch of Euskadi requires promoting a state of mind of overcoming and hope in a positive future. After the soulful and emotional cloud, the fruit of the harsh context that has touched us to live, times of hope are approaching. The pandemic's still there, it's true. But we are succeeding in leaving behind its most tragic and devastating effects in terms of human lives and affection for our health. This new scenario allows us to share some lessons learned. The first, and perhaps the most important, is to recognize the limitations of our ability to predict in contexts of high complexity and volatility such as those experienced. In addition, we have had to learn to manage individual dissatisfaction in the so-called "unsatisfied society". A crisis of this magnitude leads us to promote prudence, realism and weighting in our proposals. The second lesson leads us to learn from past crisis mistakes, especially the recent financial one. That crisis was also characterized by its multiple impact: from the economy, through politics, to the field of culture and values. Mistakes in the international management of that 2008 crisis have created problems that we are still trying to solve today, especially growing inequality or precariousness. These errors have led to an increase in political disaffection and mistrust of institutions. In this regard, there is an urgent need to articulate the balance between organised civil society and institutional frameworks that generate social trust. Third lesson. We note with concern how the dichotomy between effectiveness and democratic legitimacy is opening up in society. Faced with this false dichotomy, fuelled in certain political sectors by authoritarian or populist temptation, it is necessary and urgent to demand the defence and improvement of democratic and representative systems. In this context of lessons learned, it is necessary to mention the decision of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country of last Tuesday on the staging of stadiums in Euskadi. I will highlight two points. First, respect is an indispensable rule of institutional functioning. Secondly, since the first day, our efforts have been to take balanced decisions, based on scientific recommendations from experts and health authorities. After the last car, we will continue this effort. The meeting to be held today by the LABI Technical Scientific Commission and the meeting to be held tomorrow by the Advisory Council will again demonstrate this. Despite the obstacles and difficulties we have encountered in the face of such an unprecedented and adverse situation, our priority will continue to be to preserve the greater good of public health. Renewing, patience, cohesion, and autogonization are future keys in this new period. The triumph of Pandemony, and the hope of a positive future, demands a spiritual constructor, that each person, entity, or organization should give the best of all for the good of all. A spirit that will encourage critical experience to a constant improvement. Euskadi Basque Country's recovery is our principle and our... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... that which will encourage critical experience to perpetual improvement. Euskadi Basque Country's recovery rests on our principles and values. In other words, it means to encourage and extend the whole power of self-gravitation, the service of the welfare of our people and of the international projections. We will return to this spirit, the essential moment of our history. On the 7th of October, after Agree's first equivocation of the President, on October 1st, 1936, a significant date after accepting the state. The fun was a bridge between the different ones, and he started building Euskade. On account of the anniversary, we're going to create a new Paris representative. We're trying to get the other thing through our international process. At the same time, he'd been in exile during the four decades of dictation. From that moment he defended "sensity, equality and freedom" with dignity for the Basques. We've got a lot to go on. It is the highest aim of politics to obtain a well-balanced social life, in choices, in rights, and in duties. Contributive, integrated society. Pandemia has tested our co-operation, the consistency of our public services, social panic, and the answers we give to the weakest of families and persons. We've got a lot to do. To defend the equality of chances, to ensure the most needed social traffic, to recover activity and employment. It is the use and culture of effort, of sacrifice, of responsibility, of commitment and solidarity. We've been through difficulties and sorrows. Today, it's our positive look. It is the finest aim of politics for the production of conditions, that the welfare and happiness of men may be greater. This planning I'm doing isn't looking at a day like this next year. It's a cooperative co-operative plan for co-workers with eyes of medium-length deadlines. This purpose is a spur to us. We're talking about everyone's welfare. This is why it is worth while to share the strategy in the neighbourhood, and, in this new age, to unite forces in the service of the euscal society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] At this moment the entire meeting is interrupted until two-thirty. The meeting was interrupted at ten-thirty in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u3	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Ms Martín is the spokesman of the Misto team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Urkullu, in this world of happiness, optimism and color that sells to us we are allowed acts that embarrass us, that you want to hide and that will occur in a few days. I'm talking about the tributes to etarras, serial killers. Next Saturday, Mr Urkullu, a tribute is paid to Henri Parot, a murderer with 40 victims on his back, but not in his conscience because he shows no regrets. You say that the Basque Government has no mechanism to prohibit it. At Vox we offer you our hand to help you judicially to put an end to them. That's what you can count on Vox for. At all times we will work with you to stop humiliating the victims. The first initiative that brought Vox to this House provided Ertzaintza with the necessary mechanisms to stop the ongiatoris. But his party, the PNV, the PSOE opposed, along with Podemos and Bildu. And this, Mr Lehendakari, is a fact that appears in boldness in his balance sheet of the first year of the legislature. Vox always confronts them. Saturday will be in Mondragon our president Santiago Abascal, did you know it?, a Basque, like many, who plants in front of the violence in the street. Not behind a microphone, like you. Mr Urkullu, you have Vox to eliminate any act of humiliation of the victims and of exaltation of terrorism. But after being a direct promoter of the anti-democratic cord that applies to Vox, how are we going to join his voice to ours if we've been gagged? It should be considered that this should be rectified. Mr Urkullu, you define this House as the forum for representation, dialogue and agreement. Don't forget that you are also the lehendakari of 18,000 Basques who voted for Vox. You want to invisible the 18,000 Vox voters by hiding us as a Joint Group. Mr Urkullu, this Member of Parliament is from Vox. Why don't you start calling things by their name? To Vox, Vox; to the ongitorris, tributes to the terrorists. We are proud of what we represent: principles, honesty, word and freedom. By the way, that freedom that we have seen curtailed with the various states of unconstitutional alarm that were imposed throughout Spain with their favorable vote. You'll say you've done exemplary management, but 4,863 Basques have lost their lives. Those are 4,863 broken families. Hundreds of entrepreneurs and self-employed are in ruin and forced to throw the locks out of their businesses. You can check with the increase in unemployment lists. We talk about Basque families who today depend on charity to be able to live. Mr. Urkullu, this is not the time to breastfeed, but to tie your shoulder. Do it for those Basques who need it. They don't want medals in the Basque Parliament, but a plate of marmitako at their tables. I remind you, for example, of your management of hospitality. Now they can open, now not, now with restrictions. All that without any health report to back it up. The hoteliers are tired and distrust their management. Interestingly, the same is done by the judges, who have told him to stop giving sticks of blind people and to take the measures he takes with reports. But justice is for all and will bring them to ruin again, Mr Urkullu. You're constantly trying to make fun of her. But that's where he meets Vox. Let us use, for example, this Anti-Pandemic Act to ensure that the Basque Government acts in accordance with the law and does not impose authoritarianism. More self-criticism would be to thank you, Mr Urkullu. Do not take advantage, for example, of achievements that are not yours, such as the advance of vaccination in the Basque Country. And recognize the splendid work of the professionals of Osakidetza. It is not a question of recognizing their efforts in front of the gallery; it is a question of respecting their jobs and not sending them to the queue of unemployment when it threatens a sixth wave. By the way, he's responsible for confronting the police with hordes of businessmen willing to do anything to keep up with his party. In each performance they were overtaken by the mass. High-risk actions that you should have avoided, because the botellons were already illegal before the pandemic. More pedagogy, more truthful information and less propaganda. In short, less imposition. The Basques need to regain the freedoms they should never have taken from us. We need to put an end to the unjustified and reactionary authoritarianism of this Government. By the way, speaking of authoritarianism, we have also seen it in the European funds. We need more transparency in the management of that huge amount of money that is coming from Europe. That money we have to pay all the Basques. You must explain to the Basques how our tax money is going to be spent. You must explain to us what the decision criteria have been for the projects in which you are going to invest our taxes. You must explain to us whether they are based on social and economic criteria or have been assigned to your finger. Among these projects, I fail to mention some specifically intended for the resurrection of the services sector that still suffers from the rigour of the crisis: hoteliers, restaurateurs, tourism, night entertainment. Very needy of aid and investment to enable them to look forward to the future with some optimism. Workers and self-employed who listen to great... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...tourism, nightlife, much in need of aid and investment that will allow them to look forward to the future with some optimism. Workers and self-employed people who listen to big figures, billions of euros, but who see it as something far away and who do not know if it will come to their hands. In its day we criticize the process by which this Government bet to identify strategic projects, the almost urgent hiring of a well-known consultant and the non-participation of the economic fabric in the selection of projects. Do you remember the monographic debate of the Next Generation? He was talking about dialogue and agreement, and the only contribution he admitted was from the PP, by the way, was a spelling contribution. But you have deployed Auzolan propaganda, dialogue and agreement, even if the reality is diametrically opposite. If your intention is for Vox to remain silent and cross his fingers is very wrong. We will be vigilant so that you keep what you have promised and the European funds reach their destination without a single euro remaining in the way. We will not allow them to take over corrupt plans and grateful stomachs. And speaking of usurpations, I inform you that the report you have baptized as silent erosion is the Basque version of the Catalan slogan "Spain steals us". In Vox we will watch that the dispute between your party, the PNV, and its rivals, EH Bildu, already conveniently bleached and less fearful than you when it comes to claiming your independent Basque republic. Vox is going to slow down that insatiable thirst for self-government that rivals PNV and EH Bildu. Looking for their interests, they are able to bring them to ruin and get the Basque Country out of Europe by isolating us from the world. But the pandemic has shown the weaknesses of the state of autonomy and the tragic ineffectiveness of the autonomous management of a global problem. Mr Urkullu, you withdraw and postpone the new political status and do so because the data from the pandemic and the violence that form part of the DNA of your political rival EH Bildu, lead you to a dead end. In addition, his partner, the PSE, begins to show the nails, that is, perfectly cut and harmless. And the Socialists say that you are not clear, a pantomime, because they already knew when they signed the government pact that this was going to happen and who they were going to govern with. And now they want us to believe that they don't know if they're facing their partner, PNV, or their rival, EH Bildu. Vox has the best alternative for the Basque Country: more Spain, more competitive centralization, more collaboration between sister communities, the same privileges for all Spaniards live where they live, anywhere in the territory, advancing together. United we will overcome all the obstacles and for that we have to understand, for Vox it is essential to protect the bridge that unites us: the Spanish, and even more so with the recent news of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country to elevate to the Constitutional Court the possible illegality of some articles of the Law of Local Institutions. The imposition of euskera in the classrooms and the exclusion of Spanish is a model that violates the rights and equality of all Spaniards, as well as materializing in the academic failure that only leads the Basque Country to poverty and precariousness. The most harmed by this euskera tax model are the humblest families, who cannot afford to take their children to private schools or universities, as many separatist politicians do. On the other hand, the year of the uplift of the EITB dome will soon be fulfilled and the public body remains a speaker of nationalist and independenceist postulates, a hammer of Spanish infidels and a microphone for those who insult us and for those who degrade everything that sounds like Spanish, which sounds like Spain. The broadcasting of some, paid for by everyone, and very well paid, partial as few is an aberration. The most bloody example of ideological and partisan spending hidden behind the word "public". Mr Urkullu, the Basque Country needs courageous managers, transparency and self-criticism, the one we miss in your speech; the Basque Country needs more Spain and less self-government; spending money in the future and not in chiringuitos and in feeding grateful stomachs. We need more democracy, more equal opportunities. Remember that Vox loves the Basque Country, just as he loves and prides himself on Spain, we are not the enemy, we are Basques who fight for our country and for our land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u5	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Iturbaz, who is the spokesman of the Basque Team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u6	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. President, good evening. My first words are dedicated to all people, all families who have suffered and still suffer the consequences of this terrible COVID-19 pandemic. Their pain is ours and to them, on behalf of the People's Party-Citizens, I want to send you from here our respect, recognition and affection; I also want to publicly thank all health professionals, doctors, nursing staff, pharmacists and all essential service professionals for their dedication to their efforts and their delivery. I hope that in this one-year term we all here will do more to follow his example. Ladies and gentlemen, we have suffered a great deal because of the pandemic, a suffering that has affected us all. I believe, however, that it is time to look forward to winning a recovery that is the main longing of our society. And we must make him aware of the present still uncertain and also aware of the way on which his gaze, lehendakari, and that of his Executive must be more humble and less self-complaining than what we have heard this morning and in so many speeches and spokesmen of his Government. Let me tell you, lehendakari, with complete respect, that, in our opinion, self-congratulation defines its performance. They are a self-satisfied government, when not triumphant. I already know that you are involved in that tone of apparent humility, but beyond your words, concepts express humble triumphalism or triumphal humility. And that official Euskadi complacency contrasts sharply with the real Euskadi, which continues to go wrong, very wrong, day by day. What has happened in the past year? Well, it gives the impression that the pandemic has occupied everything... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... which continues to go wrong, very bad, in the day to day. What has happened in the past year? Well, it gives the impression that the pandemic has occupied everything, but it has been a year of pandemic and more. If today we discuss what is usually called the state of the autonomous community, it seems clear that that state is not good. Its self-congratulation is a ballast, first of all, to deal with the pandemic and recognize chaotic management in some respects. A struggle marked by the multiple contradictions that wave after wave have placed us among the worst indicators of all Spain, at the head of the rate of contagion and with the maximum restrictions. And with serious economic and social consequences too, because we are witnessing a brutal impact on the economy and employment. Your self-congratulation also wears off after a year of fierce alliance of the PNV with the Government of Sánchez, the worst government in our democratic history in Spain; alliance that presents us as if it were a chollo for the Basques, and when you have had tensions, none and even contempt practiced from Moncloa to you. Since self-congratulation, it is impossible for them to recognize the abandonment of some of the responsibilities of the Department of Safety, which has acted late and towed events. Because this has also been the year of the emboldenment of the enemies of freedom in Euskadi, who continue to flaunt terrorists, facing up to the Ertzaintza on any pretext, and mocking democratic values. Today, in Euskadi, people continue to be harassed and assaulted by their ideas or pointed at with their finger, and this is justified by those who have never condemned ETA terrorism, no matter how much they feel in institutions, without an effective reaction from your Government, Mr Urkullu. It was not enough words; his Government must do more and move to action. They find themselves complacent in the lack of transparency, rejecting commissions of inquiry, even in this House in the face of corruption, clientelism or scandals. Scandals that strive to bury, like that of the consultants, that so many questions have opened up about how our Administration works, and in which so few answers have left this executive. Executive who, too, while Zaldibar's discharges still do not return Joaquín Beltrán's body, has not assumed any political responsibility for the catastrophe, and who profiled himself after the ruling of the De Miguel case, or is allowed to breast-feed in the fraud of Osakidetza's oppositions with a plot that already reaches the 20 investigated. Such is their self-congratulation, which, from the Basque Government and the PNV, is once again talking about approaches of rupture, bankruptcy, democratic legality and coexistence. They do so in terms of plans or replans, new status – as old as their 19th century melancholies – that serve nothing for the best future of the Basque society of the 21st century. And only self-congratulation also explains that in so few months it has passed from promising to listen actively to the opposition to apply a parliamentary roll that despises the hand that we have been offering you from our group. We did it in the investiture, we did it also with more than 800 amendments in the Budgets, and we did it also in the fight against the pandemic. His behavior has been unsatisfactory in this matter, lehendakari. But today we reach out to him again, I say to him from now on: to recover normality, normality in every way, to guarantee security and freedoms, to recover activity and employment and to win the future from stability and trust. We will do so out of a sense of responsibility, out of commitment to the Basques, who demand us to work looking to the future and thinking about the general interest of our society. Let's go in parts, lehendakari. As I said, with nearly 5,000 dead officials, the pandemic has occupied everything and occupied us all in this first year of the legislature. And while the management of his Government before the elections was bad, it has remained that of his new Government in the past 12 months. They faced the first wave badly and late, and they continued to grudge afterward. The characteristic has been self-congratulation, lack of transparency and absolute lack of self-criticism; not to mention the closure in front of Parliament or the refusal to have a dialogue with the representatives of all citizens. The pandemic has finished burying the myth of good PNV management, because its management has been erratic. At times it may seem that everything was limited to criminalizing the hotel or to passing an anti-pandemic law that ended up revealing itself as inoperative, but they refused to agree to a national anti-pandemic law, and finally faced with justice. Wave after wave, the Basques have seen each other in compromised situations, often harassed by the worst indicators in all of Spain. And, much of the last year, the protagonist has been for scandals of irregular vaccinations and reliefs in the organizational chart of the department. Confusion, changes in criteria or inability to anticipate situations have marked their trajectory at all times. And if there was any doubt, it is enough to examine what happened this summer with the health counselor, refusing to appear until September, in the middle of the fifth wave of the pandemic and in a sea of contradictions. Because this has been the one of the galimatia when applying the order to cut down the night boats, something for which the municipalities had no means nor were provided to them; his companion also told him in Plentzia. The summer when the awareness campaigns aimed at these very young people that his Government rejected when we proposed them in the anti-pandemic law, or in debates here in the House, were missed. A summer that you paint blue, and that has been quite darker for most Basques. There's been everything, and very unexplainable. In mid-July, the department insisted on vaccination of young people and pregnant women, but his Government's website continued to discourage vaccination of these groups on 23 July, and was only corrected when our group publicly denounced it. Then they accused us of misinformation. You say one thing and the other, and the ones we inform you about are us, curious. This is worse than complacency, it's pride. They also had to rectify the vaccination of minors by year of birth, because they were immunizing those who had not yet reached the age of 12 years; that is, those who were not guaranteed that they could be immunized safely. At the end of June you remembered, lehendakari, that the mask should continue to be worn, did well, did well, but at 24 hours the PNV abstained on the same subject in the Congress of Deputies. He'll remember. Of course, they also voted in favour of the Inter-Territorial Health Council to carry out two weekly CRPs for residential workers, and on 13 August they announced that they would not apply them in Euskadi. On 5 August, primary care was classified as a limit situation. Gravity – apart from the lack of personnel – was also evident in the lack of trackers and uncertainty about the... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... the situation in which primary care lived. Gravity – apart from the lack of staff – was also evident in the lack of trackers and uncertainty about the vaccination of schoolchildren before the start of the course. In the third week of August, we followed Spain in the vaccination of the group between 20 and 29 years, the largest source of contagion on dates of full holidays and "no holidays". And, first of all, the councilwoman decided to disappear until September, while her party, here or there, made other incomprehensible decisions. For example, dismantle the municipal ambulance service in Bilbao, in a city with half of the ambulances recommended by the World Health Organization. Or not wanting to solve the shortage of medicalized ambulances in this province, in Álava. And I must say that when we finally heard the councilwoman again, we witnessed an exercise in political escapism, crowned by an alarming lack of self-criticism. And it seems that, just with what I've reported, there's been some self-criticism. The progressive achievement of vaccination targets or the evolution of the incidence of the pandemic, one week after another worse than the national average, will not make the Basques forget the chaotic management that this government is doing. As I told you before, the myth of the good management of the PNV has fallen forever, because the Basques are now vaccinated against the pandemic and also against the propaganda of the good management of the PNV. For the future, we believe that there is much to improve. The pandemic is still between us, and the chaotic management of vaccination and the successive waves of the pandemic cannot be repeated. We need an effective and efficient administration. Therefore, this arrogant and self-complacent attitude of his government must give way to more open, more dialogueal approaches, in search – as he said – of a growing normalization, because the pandemic cannot be the excuse for non-normalization. We have raised many parliamentary initiatives from my group, which have hardly received the attention of this government. They have been proposed to respect, attached to the exercise of our powers, to gain in efficiency and efficiency, or to avoid punishment to sectors without any justification. To avoid the insecurity and riots of justice to its management, or to try to take the lead in the situation of residences and the need for a rethink of their future. We will continue to do so, because time has given us too many times reason, lehendakari, and the interest of our society requires a greater receptivity of its government to approaches that – I repeat – try to gain in efficiency and to achieve economic recovery and normalization of the life of Basques in all areas. What is the starting point scenario in September 2021, where we are, and how do the Basques face the future? We have already seen that the pandemic will continue to require efforts to double it. But the pandemic also has a major economic and social impact, which is only now beginning to be evident. And we're not an island. The data is on the table, we all know them. Look at inflation above 3%, the largest in five years, devouring wages and pensions, and further compromising the future of the latter. A situation of employment that you have valued triumphally, ignoring reality. A situation that gradually improved in June, it is true. That is true, at a rate of 2.5%, less than half the national average, but after the summer it has the highest unemployment rate in Spain; a figure of more than 122,000 unemployed in August, 3,000 more than the previous month, with the greatest destruction of employment in proportion to the population of Spain as a whole. And in Social Security, the loss of nearly 12,000 contributors, i.e. one in ten casualties of the national total has occurred here, in the Basque Country, in Euskadi. Not to mention the workers in ERTE, or the destruction of businesses, businesses, or the number of self-employed workers who continue to fall, while growing in the rest of Spain. Indicators, all of them, that do not seem to recover in a short time. All this in the most positive August for employment in the whole of Spain that is remembered. There is no thing for self-congratulation or triumphalism, as we have heard this morning. Nor would I invite, of course, the overflowing price of electricity, surpassing record after record. The impact will be at least 25% of the receipts of millions of users. One more punishment for Basque families, businesses, hotels and shops, which Mr Sánchez's government, his partner, whom you support, is unable to tackle, not even to address. Figures unknown for recent years, also in the price of fuels, gasoline, butane, and especially gas. One invoice after another, challenging the Basques' ability to endure, or the narrow margin between recovery and closure in which today many small businesses are moving here in Euskadi; and not a few businesses of all kinds. The industrial output index, look at it, reflects it well. In June, 10% was growing, but below the national average; and that is not good news. All this is the indicators of a serious crisis that we have not yet overcome; in fact, with the arrival of autumn we could see the recovery stalled or delayed, according to many experts. As I have reminded you, Mr. Sánchez is at the head of the nation's incapable government. Sanchez's conclusion on his triumphal holiday return is that we are much better off than in September 2020. And you, lehendakari, almost alimon, sold economic optimism for the coming months. And Mrs Mendia highlighted the positive evolution of employment. The reality is that in August, our land, 93 out of every 100 contracts signed were temporary; 7 out of every 10 new unemployed under the age of 25 are women, and youth unemployment has grown by 15.5 per cent. That's right, you and your government are not affected by these figures, because the number of senior positions has increased by 20%. And I have to ask you, Mr Urkullu, whether you really believe that the truth can be so lacking in the eyes of citizens, because the failure of the Sánchez-Podez government is evident every day. Also the failure of what was meant to be co-governance, which consists of passing the hot potato to the autonomous communities at all times. A failure that the PNV and its own government, Mr Urkullu, as partners of Sánchez and PSOE in Madrid and Vitoria, fully share. A failure that was only missing from the approach to Podemos, those of populist recipes, tax increases and duties more for them than for others. And from that approach to Podemos, which seems evident from the budgets, one can only expect, lehendakari, a more expensive and more difficult life for the Basques in the coming months. Looking to the future is building a better future. Win that recovery as soon as it takes... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...and the most expensive and most difficult for Basques in the coming months. Looking to the future is building a better future. Win that recovery as soon as possible requires the opposite, lehendakari. A stork that moves us away from the policies of Sánchez and Podemos, a change of direction to resonate with the general interest or what is the same, less posture, cartitas, photos and propaganda, and to emphasize the creation of employment, stability, the relief of the tax burden of families or companies, in the serious and responsible management of public funds. And I believe, today, you have a magnificent opportunity to be clear on this matter. You may or may not accept the hand we have extended to you since the beginning of the legislature. But it is fundamental, fundamental, that we stop going with Sánchez's hand, because that alliance is a remorse for recovery, both in the Basque Country and in Spain as a whole. It is incompatible with the interest of the Basques, because that future of prosperity that we all desire is removed, is delayed every day that you maintain your endorsement of Sanchez. Look at you, lehendakari. There's another way to go. It is about improving the life of the Basques and on that path you will always find us. We must focus our economic efforts on reactivation, hoteliers, SMEs, self-reliant, all the sectors that you have faced so unfairly. And they still need support and help. These are scarce, given the economic capacity you possess, because they remain in the confusion to which your Government has contributed so much. And from companies, still with the concern of ERTEs or the resurgence of absenteeism, new complications are already seen on the horizon. His Government, lehendakari, should get to work when entrepreneurs talk of attracting and retaining talent, of the threat posed by our dwindling demographics to generational relief in industry, or of the need to re-establish a large number of people active in Euskadi. The next budget must focus on reactivation aid, on the employment of young people who deserve hope and who are looking for their future far from their land, unfortunately. Stopping talent flight or facing the demographic challenge has much to do with a future of greater opportunities for our young people. We want to add up so we don't leave anyone behind, as Sanchez likes to say. But the truth is that you are in no hurry to reform Lanbide, nor the Income Guarantee Income. And we are waiting for the bill to promise an eternal parliamentary term in the legislature, because we want just help for so many in Euskadi, who are still having a bad time after the pandemic and since before the pandemic. And it is necessary to ensure that the plans or aid that are committed are translated into action. You can count on our support to achieve this, because, today, the direct aid from the Sánchez Government you support is a failure. Just over 4,000 applications due to the required conditions. His poached Plan Berpiztu, the one of the famous 13 billion, is going through snail, if it goes through. And the Renewed Automotive Plan, which we proposed and rejected, has then been implemented insufficiently and inefficiently. More agreements for greater efficiency, lehendakari. And that will be particularly important in the management of projects financed from European funds. More agreements to promote fiscal reform that strengthens recovery, as other autonomous communities are doing. Economic Concert must be a key tool to lower taxes and gain speed in recovery, as Madrid does, without Economic Concert. More agreements to improve education and achieve results in line with the spending effort we make. We have received disturbing news confirming the dramatic error for an entire generation of students and teachers to subordinate education to euskaldunization. The collapse of quality results, of training, not only linguistics, is already a fact. There is a need for thorough reflection and rectification. And we are willing to agree here with the General Councils in favour of Basque families, businesses and self-governments to build that better future for all Basques. I regret to say that, in this year of the legislature, we have witnessed a further deterioration of fundamental rights, of coexistence, of the freedoms guaranteed by our Constitution. There is growing harassment of those who wish to exercise their freedoms by those who have never respected human rights or condemned terrorism. And also by new groups, organized gangs, who claim to take over the streets. What I say has concrete expression. In 2020, the Basque Country led a regrettable statistic, which may not have been sufficiently important. We are, first and foremost, among the autonomous communities in hate crimes. And we do not believe that this can be considered a mere fact or an anecdote. It takes a specific effort to combat, with specialized units of the Ertzaintza, those bands, sometimes not so youthful, that are more and more encamped in their widths every day. And this year, too, we have seen the abertzale left become emboldened, Bildu, from not committing real hate crimes, pointing to an EITB journalist for using a Civil Guard lifeguard, to not fighting harassment of other citizens, the repeated beatings of militants of democratic political parties, starting with young people of new generations of the People's Party, or the constant attacks on Ertzaintza. They have been demarcated from any condemnation in any institution, from a long list of aggressions and actions incompatible with the values of a democratic society. On the contrary, they legitimize all this violence, threats and harassment. It is clear that they are not willing to go the long way that separates them from democracy. They simply have come to the law, to be in institutions and to support the Government of Sánchez. And, as they say to the Government, they charge every Friday, in clear payment of a political price, the rapprochement of a few terrorists condemned to justice. Those five a week that Mr. Egibar rightly said in this rostrum. Unfortunately, attacks on the Ertzaintza increasingly violent, with parties or not parties, with pretexts or without pretexts, with pandemic or without pandemic, have been news almost every day during this summer. And Otegi laughs at the Basques. He resorts to pure sarcasm, talking about antisocial altercations, neoliberal leisure and other niceties. While the police unions, look, ask for help from Minister Grande Marlaska, who was going to say it?, and denounce a non-relationship with the department. And our police officers feel delayed in their professional career with respect to other groups of civil servants. It is not enough to denounce or condemn such attacks, lehendakari. The Ertzaintza needs unbridled support that should come from this House, and the mobilization of the necessary means to enable it to respond to these attacks and enforce the law. Sufficient material means, adequate personnel and devices, which has been lacking in recent months. Not because I say it... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...to these assaults and enforce the law. Sufficient material means, adequate personnel and devices, which is what has been lacking in the last few months, not because I say so, say the Ertzaintza agents who need more than words. Because we all know that the extreme left abertzale has been buzzing the street for months. Those responsible, lehendakari, must be pointed out, not only when they speak of misery or the morality of the lehendakari, they must be held accountable in all areas, they must be placed before the mirror in the institutions based, yes, on democratic principles and values that the vast majority of Basques share. Since January, that Mr Ortuzar minimized it speaking of the mozkorra borroka, until they have named and surnamed the responsible ones in September, they have spent eight months of profile not to bother Bildu. We must denounce and combat hate speech. But of course, that's going from words to deeds. By the way, I have missed your speech today, and I am sorry that you have missed and made no mention of the attacks of radical abertzales on people and young people who are not nationalists on this earth. And its facts, and its facts, lehendakari, consist of a bill of historical and democratic memory that whitens ETA and forgets important parts of our history, that is, it is unmemorial and undemocratic in some respects; or a plan of coexistence that poses no requirement to those who supported and continue without condemning ETA. We must move on to action and this is not to move on to action, so that we do not fight the resurgence of violence on our streets, beset by the usual, alone or in the company of others, nor do we guarantee coexistence or serve a democratic society. A democratic society that has also seen this year multiply the humiliation of the victims of terrorism. Otegi exalts terrorists day by day also, when he does not pose plainly and plainly amnesty, and boasting of his status of support from the Government is executing one by one the 250 tribute receptions to terrorists that he promised in his day. The agreement of the Basque Parliament presented by the People's Party in 2019 was of no use. Do you remember? It is of no use to recall, in August the Lehendakari did so, the revulsive character of those greetings to those who have never repented of their crimes if they do not act accordingly. For the past morning is called the tribute to Henri Parot, represents another step on that climb of Bildu in his claim to erase from a pen the past and make forget the crimes of half a century of terrorism on this earth. He's a bloodthirsty killer like a few. Such an unjust, cruel and obscene tribute are his words, lehendakari, as all the previous ones and we must put an end to the ongitorris and so many humiliations of anti-democratic parties that always justified ETA and each day they pay tribute to the terrorists. In times of post-truth and negationism of all kinds, here we face too many denialists of ETA's terror so we need, lehendakari, memory in the face of the whitening of terrorists and their crimes, dignity in the face of such obvious humiliation of their victims, and JUSTICE, with capitals, with all the conviction and demand of democracy and its values, instead of tributes and welcome to criminals who have never repented of being so. All of this also involves efforts shared by all democrats. It has to do even if they don't want to hear it with education in and out of the classroom. It requires initiative and leadership, lehendakari, to raise a level of ethical demand on Bildu and those who still do not condemn ETA terrorism or deny their criminal history greater than we have seen in recent times or the previous legislature. Looking to the future, it is imperative that Basque democratic society wins the departure to the discourse of hatred and has no doubt of our support if it truly faces that goal, and this is also where we reach out to it. Nor do I think anyone doubts that in order to face the immediate future, which is what it is about in a general policy debate, the exercise of self-government is fundamental, rather, in the way self-government is exercised, there are many of the keys to this future. It can be put at the service of citizens and their priorities, providing confidence from responsibility and stability, or it can be irresponsibly devoted to political agendas outside the general interest of our society, sowing instability and mistrust. Or what is the same, self-government can be exercised from respect, tolerance and freedom, or it can be exercised from exclusion, imposition and unilaterality. And in this, lehendakari, you have given us enough cause for concern for the future, in view of what you are announcing for the coming dates. They have long renounced any consensual updating of the Statute of Gernika within the constitutional framework. It is reformed and improved, it is reformed and it is improved what is to be preserved, and you are committed to tearing down the house not to keep it. It seems that you have the temptation – it was shuddering from the investiture – to play now with a PNV majority, Socialist Party for the day-to-day, and a PNV majority and Bildu for the day-to-morrow, to push that famous new status on which the road to independence is called "political concert". New name for the oldest ideas of nationalism that still do not understand or accept the plural and diverse character of Basque society. Bildu has spoken to you and has already shown his willingness to promote a sovereignist Statute with you. We know, I said a moment ago, that they are grown up, that you know, as you know, that Sanchez at the head of the Spanish Government is a golden opportunity for any dislatement, and that if it is to destroy the Statute of Gernika and the Constitution of 78, there will never be a better opportunity than now, that has been Bildu's offer, an offer based on the agreement reached with them by the past legislature within the Self-Government Commission. Now you present the bill to them. And we, lehendakari, demand clarity in the face of that offer. We want to know whether you will hand over your Government and your party to the despondency of old identity obsessions or whether you will reject that offer in the name of the general interest of this society. Because identity obsession leads to where we all know it, to the ruin of Catalan, that is to say, to economic deterioration and to division and confrontation between all Basques. As we saw with Ibarretxe's plan, it is the old history of breaking the options of the future, prosperity and coexistence within plural societies. The Basques do not want to go that way, lehendakari, that path that I defined before as that of exclusion, imposition and unilaterality. Do not waste our time, because it is not your time, but the time of a society that needs to take other trains at a crucial time for its future. That is why our group will work for a future of respect, tolerance and freedom, which is the option in which – we are sure of it – we can recognize the vast majority of Basques, who also depend on their responsibility. I finish, lehendakari, during this first year of the legislature you despise our hand extended and rejected our proposals, some... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Your responsibility also depends. I'm done, lehendakari. During this first year of the legislature you have despised our hand extended and rejected our proposals, some of you have had to put them into practice later, by the way. And I once again reached out to him today in a handful of subjects. We believe that it is necessary to defend pluralism in Basque and the rights of all Basques, to avoid the decadence to which our obsession with identities leads and to open growing spaces of freedom in our society. Over the past 18 months, thousands of Basque families have abruptly and painfully lost a loved one, many more are suffering the effects of a very serious economic and social crisis. Our priority is those families. If sterile debate and confrontation within society are never justified, less can we afford that luxury at critical times to win the future. We offer you agreement and unity to work together for what the Basques demand of us, and that should be the priority of all of us: for better health to end the battle for the pandemic; decisions to boost employment and the revival of economic activity by self-employed, traders and companies; reforms to put quality and free education that opens the future of opportunities for our young people; political responsibility from the government or from the opposition to defend tolerance, coexistence between Basques and denounce those who threaten it; wisdom to preserve the stability of our framework of self-government, ruling out temptations of rupture that can only end in ruin and confrontation in our society. For that future of freedom and prosperity we must work together. We want to leave our children a better Basque country, a new land of opportunity and vanguard of Spain and Europe. This debate should lay the basis for as many understandings as this precise future. We commit ourselves to working for him, giving him our hand again. And now it's up to you, lehendakari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. President. First of all, I'd like to say that today's atmosphere is becoming fun. The Chamber is full of boxes, the professionals of the media are going up and down in the corridors, and we may say that we are finally touching that normality we need. In fact, normalization is one of the roots of the same country as ours. It is this day, and about our romances, that we may speak of the romances which we have as a people, and make our proposals forward. How we are, what we need, what has been done wrong. All that. Together, Podemos-IU, we make politics with the firm vocation of the public service, and thus our honesty is an indispensable parameter. Honesty, even in our action, and even when the time comes when our political projects are announced to the people. In this sense, we must say the first thing to say is that the political project which we defend for the Basques, and the political project which this government defends, are not compatible at times. And for this very reason, and from honesty, we have criticized, denounced political policies based on injurious dogmas such as chance, and have often accused them of how pandemia has been managed, and of the remarkable errors which have been made. But it must also be said, with sincerity, that when we make politics our purpose is to make a changeable policy. In this sense, the measures which will improve the conditions of life, the concrete and the real, of the people. That's our primary political purpose. And that's why, when many times have had to take care of life this year, we've got to work. For example, when one accepts the law of the prince. The differences between us are profound, but we think these differences ought to be put to work for the public good; and this consists in the value we give to conversation and agreement. Aurten okasio asko izango ditugu, sheath, space horiek loretu edo exitu ahaliziko, sarri izango dugu horretarako aukera. Izan ere, aurten, are not few challenges that we have for this year, and many laws arrive in this year 2021. We have public health laws, environmental laws, education laws, equality laws, among others. We are talking about rules that are strategic, which at the same time will have to, on the one hand, respond to the consequences of the pandemic crisis, and, on the other hand, will also condition the social model that we have in Euskadi for decades to come. We believe that this pandemic has not only brought us fatal consequences, which we all know at the level of public health, but has also been a traumatic blow to our society at the economic, social and also anemic level. And at the same time, as is often the case when circumstances are adverse, we have seen that society has demonstrated... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...social and also soulful. At the same time, as is often the case when circumstances are adverse, we have seen that society has demonstrated its solidarity and community spirit. And in our group we are convinced that this awareness of what is common and shared and the defence of the public as a guarantee of the well-being of the citizenry is the only way to face both the consequences of the pandemic and the democratic organization of our society. In fact, he has shown the banners, and we have told him many times about the cracks of our system, especially when our public service has been dealt with. From this Illus, there will be one of the most important laws to come the Law of Public Health. We think that in this case the Basque Government ought to reflect, put it aside, and, first and then, demand a particular thing: It would need to strengthen it with strong co-operation, increase the planilla, reduce the number of patients in each medical employee of the First Level, and end up with a temporary load of work, because that would improve the quality of interest which is attributed to a public health system. Even the privatization of health ought to be stopped by this government. In fact, de facto, the services are continually being banished, they are privatizing: ambulances, radioology, even the abortions are privatized. We are willing to make settlements, but always the rights of health workers, and the effective right of health to the health of the Basques, are not disputed. The Government tells us that today, Euskadi has the capacity to meet the extraordinary spending needs of the pandemic. We don't think this is real. But we also believe that this means not recognizing the damage that the austere policies of the last decade have caused to this society and to the whole of our institutional fabric. Public services, from Osakidetza to education, were already on the edge before the pandemic and, therefore, their situation today is so difficult. It is precisely the cuts of the last decade that have prevented our health from cushioning the consequences of the pandemic in better conditions. It is the cuts that have prompted basic social services to be on the verge of collapse only a few weeks after the pandemic began. Or also that the residences of the elderly have been the center of this human drama. He has previously made the lehendakari reference to residences. But I believe that the lehendakari must agree with me that our elders have not been properly cared for during this pandemic. But it is also necessary to remember one thing in relation to this. And it is that the residences, the workers of the residences take time, for years, demanding, in intermittent strikes, improvements for the provision of the service. And this conflict, which had been resolved at the time would have better served the care needs of our elders, these demands made to us by the workers of the residences is not that they are just, it is that they are necessary to attend, they are decent working conditions, they provide decent working conditions and a good quality of care for the users. In this sense, in this respect, it requires a public euphora system, where the eucalyptus is placed. Because you can't afford a right to profit by the funds funding them with public funds. Predication of the conditions of former workers is a real and very serious danger, not only for the life of our age, but also for the workers. The President mentioned something else in his speech, and it is our demographic reality and the progressive old age of the population, and it has settled it as a problem. Well, to give people the importance they need to take care of their jobs is absolutely necessary to deal with this as well. So, what does this mean? Well, we must be able to provide specific measures on the side of the organizations, so that the care may not be a private charge imposed on individuals and families. We need to extend the culture of care and also articulate an appropriate care economy. And I say economy because all these jobs are part of the wealth of GDP, although they are not usually recognized. The current model of care has been built on the weight, above all, of women's work. Unrecognized, poorly paid and sometimes unpaid work as well. And what is now at stake is to lay the foundations for a Basque system of public, community, free, comprehensive, integrated and universal care. A care system whose quality does not depend on the income that each has and that does not become, please, that does not become, the business from which to extract extraordinary economic benefits. We must put the economy at the service of life and not the other way around. One of the challenges... Another of the challenges we face, a key issue that puts life's very existence on this planet in check, is climate change. This year we've had a lot of reports... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... a key issue that puts the very existence of life on this planet in check is climate change. This year many reports have shown us the correlation between environmental degradation and the rise of new diseases, as well as the growing risk – also – of suffering future pandemics. The health of the planet is now in danger, owing to the model of production and consumption which we now possess, based on an uncontrolled exploitation of resources and primary materials, and the increase of debris, fluids, and the volume of sheds. The response to this status is required in the global level. And it is true, that the governments of the world are not properly employed to oppose this necessity. And, alas, it must be said that the Basque Government is not in this exception. Despite the discussions, emissions have not been reduced, they are not confined in our autonomy community, although EAJ has fossil fuels... Excuse me, together with this, and, in this, EAJ, it may be said that the form of government is not in harmony with this subject, but EAJ, the head of the government... his attitude with fossil fuels does not agree with what he requires. He continues to bet on fossil fuels for exploitation. And it has been necessary to accept a law made by the State on the change of climate to stop the gas projections of the well in Armentia. And that, though in this year 2019, was committed to reduce the duties of the hothouse in spite of its commitment. Within the declaration of climatical emergency. It is also to say, that in order to accept the affairs of the State, he demanded a discount on the diesel, there is in this subject a theoretical negionism, and also a substitute for the praxism of negion. It may be said that the government is placed in the negationism of praxia. The year 2020 will be remembered by the tragic collapse of Zaldibar. And it has to be said that this is part of a waste management model. A model on which there is no effective public control, and on which the interest of private enterprise in the protection of the environment and health outweighs. But it's not just Zaldibar. During this last year there have been numerous citizen platforms have denounced different emissions, pollutant discharges: we talk about emissions from the incinerator of Zubieta, Glefaran, Foundries in Durango, spilled to the rivers by Petronor, other companies... We, here in this Parliament, have already said, we demanded, that real-time controls be established on the emissions and discharges of these companies. However, we have not received a positive response. On 8 September, the Public Prosecutor's Office also noted that many environmental crimes have been filed in Euskadi due to the lack of personnel from the Ertzaintza Environmental Unit. Several times we have asked this government to double, to triple these units. Finally, the State Climate Change Act not only prohibits the extraction of gas; it also requires the creation of exclusion zones for wind and solar park projects due to their environmental impact, and with regard to biodiversity. In this respect, the citizens of Alavesa are concerned. She is very concerned about the invasion of solar mega-plants and wind power plants in her villages and mountains. And you, the government, have allowed large multinationals to buy large land in Euskadi so that, for decades, we will be paying for bills of light. Right now, we have no rules, no plans, no exclusion zones for projects, no public participation in decision-making; we will hardly make an ecological energy transition in this way. That's why we're betting on a new energy model. A model that bets on the production of renewable energy, decentralized, that is managed through a public enterprise that can confront the energy oligopoly. That is why we have also called for the creation of a public company, the use of Next funds to install photovoltaic parks in industrial and urban areas, the construction of electric and gas-free housing, and the promotion of self-consumption to free us from the greed of energy companies. Lehendakari, I am talking about the need for a state pact to regulate the price of light. We collect this glove, and we also have at least three proposals: one, the public energy company, which is based on renewable energy; two, which intervenes in the price of light, and three, which is also very important, prohibiting the avoidance of revolving doors. And the latter is also fundamental. If we talk about education, education has a big problem in Euskadi. Several, you may have them, but of course there is a problem that is very important from our point of view, and it is, it is called, concertation. Almost half of Basque students are enrolled in concerted schools, i.e. in schools that are private but have public funding. The case of the Spanish State is certainly an anomaly with regard to Europe, but it is that this situation is even worse in the Basque Country; there are almost 20 more points of enrollment in the agreement with respect to the state average. According to the data that the Department of Education itself reported just a week ago, public education in Euskadi barely exceeds 50% of enrolments. In the European Union, enrolment in the public sector exceeds 80 %. It's a fact for reflection, so... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... European Union enrollment in the public sector exceeds 80 %. It is a fact for reflection, so that we become aware of the dimension of the problem we have. And why is this a problem? On the one hand, money goes to private school, because it's not going to public school. And it's a public school that guarantees social inclusion. Besides the income of families, school is the mirror of the variety of society. On the other hand, in the compact schools, the revenues of the family are decisive. And tied up with this data, 22.8% of the entire student of foreign origin, which has been plated in public schools of the Basque Education. And if we look at private schools under the pact, it's about 9.5%. The facts speak of themselves. And besides, we do a very little service to the social incluation and support of this example, if the social or original reasons are conditioned by the acquisition of the right of all the citizens. We, our bet, we make... Our strong commitment is to a public education system that includes education from zero to three years, because our public education is not only an institution, it is a value. A value that we must defend because it is from where equal opportunities for boys and girls are protected. It is a fortress against social segregation. And he's the first and most important agent for the socialization of the Basque. That is why we need to defend this public and shared place, which is the public school, which is where, in addition, intelligence is formed, the future intelligence and outlines the future of a society that is better, more just and more egalitarian. Burus self-governance. In order to correct all these shortcomings that I have pointed out, such as that relating to education, it is for what we should use, we believe that we should use our own self-government. It is true that, after 40 years, the transfers have not yet been completed. And it is true that it has had to enter United We can the Government of Spain to speed up this process with the transfer, most recently, of prisons. However, we are still far from full compliance with the Gernika Statute. And this is an unquestionable right of Basque citizenship. But the mechanisms of self-government that we already have must be used correctly. For example, it would mean that the Act on Contributions presented to us does not change anything fundamental. And it is that the Basque municipalities will continue to be underfunded, and the distribution of obligations and resources between the historical territories will continue to be decided with keys behind closed doors and away from the sovereignty represented by this House. That is why we say that as important as the concrete content that allows us to develop our self-government is the political project under which we want to manage it. And that is why, when we talk about sovereignty, we talk not only about the territorial framework, but about the democratic right that all citizens have to decide on all the matters that fall within their competence. And what is the point of moving the decision centre from Madrid to Euskadi, if it is to remain always between the four walls of the Board of Directors of a large company? We know, however, what the national reality of this country is. We've often shown clear will to change our legal and political sphere. And we're ready to talk about it. We have more than once expressed ourselves in a conversation without a red line, in order to obtain extensive agreements. We proclaim a variety of nations. And we believe that this multiplicity of nations can be defended by the Republican federalism. We defend a model of republican federalism, which is not just a model of territorial organization, but is a social and political model, where there is a legal shielding of the public and of social welfare, because, as the 2008 crisis has shown and has ratified this pandemic, in the public is where the great answers to social problems always find themselves. In the face of problems, whether they be crises or pandemics, citizens always look to the public and expect solutions. Be health, be energy, be housing, be pensions of what we are talking about. No one believes that the answers are private pension funds, energy oligopoly, banks, employers, investment funds, outsourcing in health, consultation in education. There are no solutions. This government is committed to competitiveness, large enterprise and private initiative. But everyone knows that when they come wrong, the rescue, the social rescue comes from the public. Dismantling the public results in the undermining of the material conditions of the existence of Basque citizenship. In conclusion, and despite the ideological fundamental differences of the model with this Government, we do want to reaffirm the idea that we will always have good will for the agreement. We have said this actively and passively, that we have no vertigo, that we do not marry anyone, that we are not external partners and neither do we oppose postureo. When our proposals are approved, we vote for the vote. And when the agreement is not possible... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... postreal. When our proposals are approved, we vote for the vote. And when the agreement is not possible, then we'll be face to face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Next, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u10	Good afternoon. Partners. Lehendakari jauna, our spokesman has explained to him what our vision is of his government action, also what our priorities are and the approaches with which we want to continue to oppose his model. Because, and although in my opinion, I believe that you have not explained your model this morning, you have again explained to us the objectives of your Government, which we already knew, I think that at this point, I have told you many times, it is obvious that we do not share a model with your Government. But you, in particular, also constantly appeal or have sometimes appealed to Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita to reach agreements that go beyond the forces that support the Government. But the ability to reach agreements, in our view, does not depend solely on the political will, we believe that we have already proved to be able and willing to reach agreements with almost all groups in this Parliament, whether in opposition or in support of the Government. For Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, both agreements and confrontation depend on political content. Facing you or reaching agreements with you are not goals for us in themselves, but are dependent on the policies you want to practice. That's why it's so important for us to also talk about the model, how these policies are going to be practiced beyond the objectives, which is what I missed this morning in your speech. If this Government wants to appeal to us in the search for understanding, it must do so by proposing a change of course on fundamental issues for our group, because if it will not continue to face us. We will stand before you in your unconditional defense of the employer, in conflicts with the workers. I am not going to assess whether you, as you said this morning, have improved in the area of social dialogue, what I am sure is that in the face of every workers' conflict – be it large-scale or sectoral – your government continues to have a clear anti-worker essence, led by the Department of Economic Development, with which Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita is incompatible. We will be faced with its educational model that benefits the private by tearing the public with it. We are not compatible with a model whose objective, whose objective is to have half of our education in private hands, subsidized with public resources. We will be facing their outsourcing model, subcontracting that makes public services have worse working conditions for women workers, but that are a business, a powerful business for a few. We will therefore be faced with that poor so-called public-private partnership, which often consists simply in allocating massive public resources to private hands. And we will, of course, face unfair taxation, where the main tax burden continues to fall on the working class, while capital benefits from a low-cost model. As for what you have called this morning the Basque problem, in what I believe we should have points of union, I think it is possible, however, I was surprised that this morning you have brought us back to 1846. We thought we were talking about looking for 21st century solutions. We think that what you moved this morning, of course, does not seem very modern. It is true that some expectation has been generated, even that some media has spoken of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita as a preferred partner of the Basque Government. Let me tell you that nothing further from reality, our coalition continues to be in the antipodes of its economic policies, fundamentally, and with an alternative model to which we are not going to give up: equality, feminism, the care of the natural environment, the defence of the environment, social justice and the defence of workers, and fiscal reform for economic equality and for achieving quality, powerful public services. But they are often headlines and objectives that the broad political spectrum of this House says they share. That is why we care, above all, about how; and how it is that we have fundamental differences. On those priorities and that how, which is reflected in our electoral programme, is how we will continue to work. And that is where the closest or greatest confrontation is going to be with all the groups in this House, including the Basque Government itself. In addition, as my colleague Gorrotxategi has explained, we will push republican federalism in Euskadi to build a diverse and pluralist country in the service of a life worthy of all people. You said this morning that you believe that the state needs a reformulation, that's something we could agree on. I would like to know whether the monarchy is also included in that reformulation. I am not saying this because I am, as you know, a convinced Republican, I am saying this because that system, which you have said should be reformed, the vault stone of this system is precisely the monarchy. On these issues, as I say, is where we can meet or we will face each other. Because, as my colleague has said, we are not going to be external partners of your government or a posture position. With the policies that you are practicing and that you have explained this morning, and where we have not seen any change, I have to tell you that we do not want or can be an external partner of your Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Aduza, the Socialist Basque, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u12	The head of the table, Mr. President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. First of all, I am heartily pleased to see all who are here today and so well. Today we begin an unprecedented political study... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... to see them all and so well, I assure you. Today we begin an unprecedented political study, from the exceptional situation we've had in the past year and middle of the year, and from the duties we've been assigned to ourselves in politics. This, no doubt, is the greatest challenge our political generation has ever had, and with this firm conviction Euscal Socialist will proceed. The decisions we make today, which we have to discuss and admit in the next few months of this legislature, will affect the lives of the Basques and the welfare for many years. And I want to emphasise this point, which is precisely the ambition and long gaze which this moment requires, not only the discussion of the present day, but the meeting in front of us. The policy from the socialist perspective and commitment is the tool and the opportunity that citizens have to stop the devastating effects of climate change, to overcome the pandemic, to protect their right to health, to protect the weakest, to extend equality, to generate economic models of high social content, to attract investment, to guarantee the future of young people and the purchasing capacity of pensions, to bet on research that defends the common interest, to end macho violence, to protect all sexual identities, to strengthen stable and quality employment, to confront without delay the energy transition, to educate and form in freedom, coexistence and solidarity. In short, to ensure a dignified and sufficient way of life for all people. In this we are the socialists, and it has been demonstrated through the many measures adopted in Euskadi, Spain and Europe. We are faced with challenges of great magnitude, of enormous magnitude. Most of them with the need to act counterclockwise. It was that transformative will that guided the electoral program with which the Basque Socialists presented themselves to the last autonomous elections. A program in which we did the exercise of defining the challenges that Basque society had in the coming decades and charting the way to achieve it. We are inspired by the United Nations sustainable development goals for 2030, which was then the guide for the development of the programme of this coalition Government. And it is this same transformative will, that same long look, that is realized with objectives and deadlines in the legislative calendar. At present there are 18 bills submitted by the Government and in addition to four proposals for legislation promoted by the Socialist Party, in conjunction with the Basque Nationalist Party or other parliamentary groups. And we have 23 more for what remains of mandate, some of the relevance of the reform of the GIR, the law of climate change, the law of public health or the Statute of Consumers. The Lehendakari has made a detailed review of the Government's commitments for the coming months. I would like to highlight the common goal shared by all those plans and projects on the road to equality, to modernize and reform our public system or to heal the wounds left by the crisis. In short, to fulfil the three objectives that the Socialists set ourselves in our electoral programme and which are today the three guiding principles of the government programme: to ensure the health of people, to reactivate the economy and employment, and to leave no one behind. But together with this, to go and prepare Euskadi for that future that is getting closer every day, that is more imminent and that must turn on issues mentioned a moment ago such as equality between men and women, climate emergency, digital transformation or citizen diversity. We started a new political course in a completely unprecedented situation, in the middle of the biggest crisis of the last century, the biggest and most serious, due to its unpredictability, its lethality and its global effect. It has been some terrible months, with greater or lesser effect, all of us here have suffered closely from the devastating consequences of this virus and we had never faced anything similar. Today, we can proudly say that we in Euskadi have been up to it; that in our health system, with the health personnel at the head, it has responded professionally and emphatically to a very hard struggle for the initial shortage of means and for the global ignorance in the form of the spread of the virus; that it has responded to citizens, mostly committed to the implementation of preventive measures and the call for vaccination. And it didn't have to be, because that's where we have the response movements, such as in countries like France, like Italy or Germany. Here we have had resistances, yes, but it is true, but that the tree does not hide the forest of societies, Basque and Spanish, which have acted responsibly and with solidarity, above all, because complying with the rules is already a matter of solidarity with the most vulnerable; that they are allowing us to move forward with strenuous steps in the pace of vaccination – and let us hope for the early recovery of this pandemic – with successes and mistakes, of course, no one can pretend to make a triumphalistic balance of an unexpected crisis and that has left so many wounds on the way. Today we can be proud of a Basque self-government that has demonstrated all its strength and capacity for action, the more it was lacking. Osakidetza has done so, which already has to recover its presence in primary care. It has been done by the education system and all our teachers, also in a very complicated situation. And they have done so, in an admirable and exemplary way, by the boys and girls, our children and our daughters, who have set an example for this society, for their discipline and for their ability to understand a situation of such complicity and magnitude. Each and every department has done so by offering solutions for employment, industry, the tourism sector and small business, hard and especially beaten, but they have found in the Government, and especially in Councillor Javier Hurtado, a sensitive ally and advocate of their demands. And the same can be said of housing policies, transport, social services, a good functioning of the institutions to which, of course, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has also contributed and a model of co-governance, an example of respect for our institutional and political model. And the best example we have, as I said, in the vaccination campaign. Today we have nothing less than 90% of the population... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the institutional and political model. And the best example we have, as I said, in the vaccination campaign. Today we have nothing less than 90% of the Basque population vaccinated with at least one dose and more than 85% with the full schedule. And that is, of all the data we are going to hear today, the most tangible demonstration that we are defeating the virus and that we are controlling in its worst effects and in the recovery of normality. And this success can only be understood if we accept that merit is not individual, that merit is shared. That if Spain is being one of the countries with the highest vaccination rate in the world, it is because the collaboration is working. It is because the government of Pedro Sánchez and the autonomous communities, whatever color, are doing well. An effort of which only the People's Party has been absent in national politics, a party that only knows how to move in revenge for not ruling, in the "worst, better", in the obstructionist criticism and the blockade. It is also because citizens are responding, because the media are contributing to it. Let us be proud of this achievement, which is a country achievement, because reality shows that there is another way to govern. There is another way of understanding coexistence in democratic societies and in our autonomous system as well, which is more effective when committed to unity of action, mutual loyalty and federal tools. Last year alone, more than 200 sectoral conferences and commissions were held with all autonomy. In what we wear from 2021, about 120. And we must add to this the conferences of presidents who, although it seems that from Euskadi we always have to go a little too far, have proved to be a useful space for encounter and collaboration between autonomy. And in some way you will have to see that the socialists are in the government. Something will have to see that today Spain governs a party that believes in the plurality of the country and in mutual collaboration. In the seven years of People's Party governments, only two were convened. Pedro Sánchez is 18 times in a year and a half. No Government, none, has demonstrated greater commitment to mutual collaboration. No Government has demonstrated greater commitment to compliance with the Statute, as is the case with the transfer of transfers, despite the added difficulties of the pandemic, including that of prisons. Euskadi had already managed this matter jointly for 10 years, thanks to the agreement of the then councilwoman and today vice-lehendakari, Idoia Mendia, after signing with the Ministry of the Interior, and which has allowed to develop, over these years, a model of coordinated management in the field of health, education, work guidance and management of open-ended penalties. Because it is with the socialists, as always, and not because the Lords of Podemos are in government, when the Statute advances. And you all know that. And we can talk about the different interpretations that are made of legal texts. We will be able to agree on the difficulties in negotiating some transfers. We will be able to talk about the refocusing effort that has moved the Government of Spain when it was in the hands of the People's Party, and about the need for more and better meeting forums that avoid the excessive judicialization that has taken place for moments around our self-government. And there, of course, they will always find us socialists. What we would like more, lehendakari, is that to justify some initiatives in the coming months, we resort to presentations of books with more ideological than legal burden. Co-governance, then, upwards, with Europe. Neither the distribution of vaccines nor the launch of Next Generation funds would be possible outside that space. And co-governance also down, because also here, in Euskadi, we have discovered the need to do some federal gymnastics for the common work with deputies and municipalities. And they'll ask, "And from now on, what?". We have passed the phase of fighting the virus. This first year of the legislature has been the year of resistance, ladies and gentlemen. Now it's up to us to transform. The road is marked. We know the trajectory page. I said at first, it goes beyond the three different sections that socialists handle, and it is formed throughout the whole government program. Start with the principles that organize everything. To preserve and modernize our public services, to advance equality, to help the ecological transition, or to the greater part of the policy which was directed to promote conversation. And when we speak of a more modern and more efficient judicial system, by improving sub-structions and the conditions of workers, or establishing a new judicial office, we speak with the words of the socialists. When we speak of a more open and more transparent administration, we speak with the words of the Socialists of the Basques. And of course, when we talk about fighting climate change and promoting circular economy, we do it with the words of socialists and the nicest things. In the preceding law, for example, the author of the author's operations. So we have a long job to do. A lot of good work has been done. But now it is up to us to set in motion the foundations for that transformation. A transformation of the health model. Without a doubt, another of the great lessons of this pandemic has been to have put on the table, in an extremely crude way too, the need for all people to be cared for and the importance of recognizing, socially and economically, a sector whose tasks have traditionally fallen on women in the family or, at best, on precarious employment. And this can't go on like this. For social justice, but also because it is clearly unsustainable in a context of increased life expectancy, changes in family models, increased mobility and labour flexibility. And the solution is not to build a residence, but to give a complete turn to our social service system, to facilitate the autonomy and empowerment of people. This was one of the pillars of our electoral campaign, and it had a direct effect on this Government's structure decree with the creation of the Social Care Directorate, which is under the responsibility of the Department of Health and which is born with the aim of coordinating the care of all people who are particularly vulnerable, older, young, girls, boys and people with disabilities. And this also implies having a global vision, which affects the Department of Health, of course, but also the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, the Department of Labour and Employment, the three parliaments and the municipalities. The Department of Labour and Employment, with Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia at its head, is already advancing in this line with novel programs in Lanbide, to form profiles in new employment niches that require qualified personnel, such as care. But you have to go a lot further. Socialists... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in Lanbide to form profiles in new employment niches that require qualified personnel, such as care. But you have to go a lot further. The socialists continue to bet on the implementation of a community model, which is already covered by Law 12/2008 on Social Services, and on the constitution of that Gizakidetza, from which to redesign the scheme of care provision from childhood to old age. A new model of defamiliarized and defeminized care, led by the public sector and ensuring that all dependent persons who wish to continue living in their homes are able to do so and that those who go to residences receive quality care. We must also face the transformation into economics and work. Economist Mariana Mazzucate points out that when the government lacks a clear theory of what it should do, a mission that directs all its action becomes slow and generally adopts the wrong role. In Euskadi we have a clear mission: to exceed 40% of gross domestic product in industry and advanced services. This is one of the ten country objectives to which we Socialists have committed ourselves, and hence our certainty that we can achieve it, also involving ourselves in the development of the capacity of our business fabric. The Socialists, with our participation in the Government of Spain and also in the Basque Government, are exerting mediation and impetus in the important industrial field, of course, counting on the municipalities that have suffered so much from the closure of tractor companies in their localities and regions. And I'm thinking, for example, about Zumarraga, with his mayor here today. And we believe that the Berpiztu Programme for Economic Reactivation and Employment is the guide for the recovery of the crisis suffered over the past year and a half, as it is in full harmony with the measures being taken from the European Union and the Government of Spain. I think we've got good handles to grab. The European funds are undoubtedly an extraordinary opportunity for the recovery and transformation of our economy on the path of sustainability, decarbonisation, also digitisation, to get on the train of that fourth industrial revolution that we still have pending here in Euskadi. Funds that are largely real thanks to a socialist government that has been at the forefront of its momentum at European level. It will now be up to you to get the projects right and follow up closely on your management. This House has already devoted a full monograph to discussing these matters and in addition to long sessions in committees. And I'm sure from now on, most likely, we'll have some more. There is also the entire battery of social and economic measures that the Spanish Government is promoting, from the benefits for the ERTE, which have been fundamental for the survival of so many companies; the next rise in the interprofessional minimum wage or the minimum living income, in which we are working for their full transfer. Finally, it has been possible to agree on the Law on Contributions, which regulates the distribution of resources derived from the Economic Concert, a fundamental instrument in this phase of recovery in which we entered and which was due to be updated since 2011. But in this field we also have duties to do of course. As you know, the objective – and so has been ratified by the Lehendakari in the morning – remains in force to place the unemployment rate below 10% throughout the legislature. But, on the one hand, there is the quantitative challenge and, on the other, the qualitative challenge. Because in addition to generating jobs, we need to make them stable, of quality, inclusive and equal. And that's where the Department of Labour and Employment is. It has already designed with the social and economic actors and with contributions from the parliamentary groups a Basque Employment Strategy with a view to ten years from now. There is the reform of Lanbide, to make it really effective in the qualification and placement of people. We already have a draft for the reform of income guarantee income, a tool, of course, essential to deepen the social cohesion of Euskadi and to get no one to stay behind. The basis for a law for a Basque Employment System, which includes a new right to active employment policies, is now ready. And we don't have to go back a long way to see that we are talking about tangible and objective realities, such as the agreements reached at the Social Dialogue Bureau, the third extension of the ERTE complements for lower wages, the social pact for a just transition to Industry 4.0, with training and retraining programmes and social coverage for the workers concerned. Realities such as the agreement on new niches of employment opportunities, which aims to broaden qualifications in vocational training to facilitate the adaptation of training to the real needs of the company, or to combat the wage gap. We also have to deal with environmental transformation, because the challenge of the pandemic cannot divert the focus from the climate emergency that has already come from before and remains the same. The government already has since the last legislature, when this area was managed by Councillor Arriola, with a lot of work, of which three bills stand out, which we hope this House will adopt as soon as possible. I am referring to the Natural Heritage Conservation Act, the Environmental Administration Act, which comes to reorder and update the current legislative framework, and, of course, the Climate Change Act, an integral law with emission reduction objectives and obligations for both companies and administrations. An ambitious project, aligned with Europe. With mechanisms to encourage low energy intensity, help the introduction of renewables between private and public actors. A work that has already begun in the period of the lehendakari Patxi López. The goal is to achieve a carbon neutral Euskadi by 2050. The Basque Socialists believe that Euskadi can lead that global challenge and also turn it into a lever for transformation into a more competitive and climate neutral economy. We want to place the climate issue as a central country objective. And for that, sustainable development must go through all policies without plotting. And this also means talking about mobility. We have pending the Sustainable Mobility Act. It involves talking about circular economy. And in Euskadi I think very interesting things are being done in this field. Our companies are doing it. The Administration is doing so; for example, the Gipuzkoa Diputation, with the leadership of the socialists. Also, of course, is being done by the Basque Government, through the Basque Circular HUB, to train young professionals specialists in circular economy, or the Circular Economy and Bioeconomy Plan 2021-2024. It involves talking about new models of urbanism. Because that Euskal Hiria that we aspire to inhabit in the future must be built according to criteria of habitability, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, also of quality of employment, introducing technologies and a distribution of spaces that facilitate coexistence... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... according to criteria of habitability, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, also of quality of employment, introducing technologies and a sharing of spaces that facilitate coexistence or teleworking. And I don't want to forget other essentials: the attention of trade, tourism, and such as are hosting, and especially those which the covida has seriously injured. This first year of the law, the bureau has replied to an emergency, including a plan of resistance over 100 million dollars, threefold of the usual budget. Now we must look forward. We need to renew the education agreement for a new generation. It's a essential matter. Sociists, not only directed this area through three regulations, were responsible for the production of the Public Basque School by Fernando Bues. Now we must adapt ourselves to new times, to choice, to digitalization, to perfection, to trieleas, to democratic values. In this new example, the public schools should be leadership. To do this, it is indispensable that there should be enough workers and infrastructure. We must certainly bet on public services. Improve them, equip them with tools and budgets to better meet future challenges that are already at our door. In Euskadi the collection goes in positive terms. The new European funds add up to opportunities – as I said – and will be perfectly reflected in the next budgets. Budgets with an investor, expansive, transformative, progressive and social character. We are moving towards 2022 with greater public spending, probably the largest in history, always for the benefit of the majority. Budgets that already have, from the start, with the support of the majority that we make up the two groups that we support the coalition government. There's a lot of work ahead of us in this house. there are about twenty laws waiting for discussions and tramitation, and there will be as few of them as possible. And we must ask ourselves a question: What do we want to do in the next few months? In my opinion, the laws of the climate change, the reforms of the revenue, the law of the Young, the Law of the Public Health, or the Law of the Public Common-wealth, deserve our full attention. We've said it over and over, and we'll go on like this, that we won't avoid discussions, and we'll never do it. These Socialists have maintained a proposal for federal organizing the state. We go on with that idea, but we're told that we're not clear in our planning. Every year we have come to this discussion, and have heard of the right to decide, forum, political concert, bias, and other vague formulas. I invite all political teams to face this discussion clearly. If we're talking about reforming the state, let's set it up. That's what we agreed on at the beginning of the previous legislation, the Social Party and the Jeltarian party. Then we know what happened, but beware, we agree on the text 80%. When we speak of social rights, of self-defence, of well-being, and of the spreading of the rights of the citizens of the Basques, of course we agree. But to agree on this must not be an excuse for breaking the other bridges. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the nationalist groups. Their aspirations about what they call the new status have already led us to a dead end in the Self-Government Office; if they want to go back on the same, they already know the procedure, but also the end of the road. A new presentation may be re-established, as set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House, if any group deems it necessary, with an objective and a work plan. That possibility is in the hands of the groups, as it is, too, to present an articulated text that is put to the vote. Look, in this House we can come to an agreement on a political text that can have a majority that serves the nationalist ideal. They can agree on the right to decide, their journey to self-determination to gain independence. But be aware that if they do, they will be breaking the coexistence, the pluralism of a society, which will be isolated and stagnated socially and economically. And no, we're making up nothing, because that tour has already been rehearsed in Euskadi, and it was a huge failure. In this House we all know that a reform of the Statute will not pave the way for independence. The challenges we face as a society are impossible to address from the point of view of territorial fragmentation. The challenges of current policy create different spaces to decide, to share, and also to manage. They're all related. And everyone points to the need for collaboration. The political status is already defined, and it works. It has its Basque expression, its Spanish expression and its European expression. It facilitates the role and action of all political flows, their representativeness, their roots. And a good demonstration of that is precisely this reality of plural governance that we have in Euskadi. Our reference is never going to be the 19th century. Our reference will always be the 21st century. We, Euskadi, are expected in this: in the contribution from the autonomous to the local and the global. Imanol Zubero already said, precisely, in the post of Self-Government of the last legislature: "Euskadi may be to be built, but not to be discovered, because we have known what we are for a long time." Euskadi needs to continue building coexistence. A coexistence in which violence does not fit, of any kind and towards any collective. A coexistence in which there is no resistance to their condemnation when it occurs, in which no one who practiced terrorism is exalted, in any of their expressions, whatever they were, had the names they had, were called as they were called, and in which progress is made in the memory, justice and reparation of those victims. Any act of public tribute to the remains of ETA is inadmissible. Those who attacked life and freedom, murdered hundreds of citizens and extortioned thousands of people in this country. The ongitorris have become an instrument of humiliation to the victims through a substitute of glorification of those who practiced terrorism. And to put an end to such humiliating, aberrant practices, it is only up to you, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu. And they know it. They know about it. Precisely now, when the tenth anniversary of the end of ETA is celebrated, and this society should commemorate as it deserves, it is a good time. An extraordinary moment for abertzale from the left to break ties with that past that haunts them and accompany us to the rest of... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...it is a good time, an extraordinary time for the left abertzale to break ties with that past that haunts them and accompany us to the rest of the political forces in the construction of a fairer and more decent Euskadi. And that, I repeat again, unique and exclusively depends on you. Nor do I want to forget all these episodes of violence that we have experienced in recent months: violence against Ertzaintza, homophobic attacks, racist attacks, ideological attacks, murders of women at the hands of their partners or ex-partners. We must be extremely forceful against those behaviors that in no case fit in our day, but as forceful as with those cases we must be against those who promote and encourage them through their speeches today, and against those who with their silence also become accomplices. Lovenzen noa. Because as I said, there are many challenges that we have as a country and their achievement depends on the concert of absolutely everything, of political parties, of social agents, of companies, of trade unions, of public professionals and of society as a whole. A space for agreement that must be sincere in order to be realistic, that must walk towards the encounter with reasonable proposals, with intermediate points between the partisan aspirations of each of us and ourselves. Multiple understanding between different is good for citizens, institutions, but above all also for politics itself. And to underline the differences, it should not prevent us from going through stages together. The worst of this crisis has already passed. We have exceeded the time of resistance and are already in that of reactivation and hope. Socialists have been practicing a policy of agreements that, in this pandemic situation, has allowed the country to resist the greatest economic, health and social crisis that we could foresee. It must now be those same agreements that allow us to lead the major transformations that are pending in this country. And this House has to rise to the right time to face the economic challenge, to face the climate challenge and to face the social challenge, because that is the fight against inequality that moves all the other issues and on which it must turn the entire political agenda of the country. Politologist Sami Naïr says that "without social cohesion, a true common political identity cannot arise". This is the real unfinished task we have in Euskadi. We invite all groups in this House to that challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. [[Applause]] Gather the EH team, Mrs. Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u14	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good evening, all of you who have come to our guests this evening, and thank you very much. And good evening, Mr. Urkullu. I have come to hear and to understand, because I have always given a great deal of importance to this exercise of listening and acting. But in proportion as I have heard you, my uneasiness has increased, because I have not found it in balance, nor in the extreme challenges of the future, any strength and determination to resist. The Conservative is a kind of suggestion that you put on the table of a government that does not know what direction it is or what direction it is. In the name of Realism, your government seems to offer a paralyzing conformism, and it is as dangerous as to propose impossible challenges to reject a collective effort to obtain a difficult but attainable challenge. Today, you took us to 1800, the year 1962, Kennedy deflated by challenging the United States of America to arrive in the moon during that decade. But he added a little reflection, and said that he had not suggested it because it was easy, but because it was difficult. And I'm interested in that reflection. This government shows a lack of illusions and lack of collective motivation and impassibility to create and encourage. Look, I'll give you some examples. As a purpose, you proposed to us, in our investigation and development, to reach the average of one European when we were a few years ago above. The purpose is to get off the job for 10 percent of unemployment. European record, but negative record, Mr. Urkullu. As far as school is concerned, you plan to build below 7% when it's already 6,5%. Or, what to say about 10% of the birth rate. You propose to invite us into the midst of ten people who have the best index in equality, when we are ninth, but when we were fifth. So we're backing out. And in this situation, with that lack of leadership, I've been heard today as fireworks than future projects. Beyond the fireworks, anyway, it's time to count, Mr. Urkullu. And we've heard you call self-critic glory. But afterwards, in your discourse, it has not been so. It has certainly been a political year under the condition of the legemels; The Basque Country is 5925 people dead. And our love (... I want to send them all. We know it's been a very difficult management of the palace. But behind this difficulty we cannot hide, and we must seriously reflect on the defects or the privations which have been in all these months, or the mistakes you have spoken of. Teaching them out. I've told you this before. We've been chasing the virus. This government doesn't know the different times of panic, and they read what they asked for. The communicative political strategy is sometimes won by a sanitarian scientific strategy. This government has placed the image above efficiency, principally by placing it in a restrictive measure, and making decisions without consistency, or, if not consistent, at one time and the other. And what has become of the law, Mr. Urkullu, covid? What was the use of the Covid law?... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ...or if the rocket isn't in one and the other. And what has become of the law, Mr. Urkullu, covid? What did the Covid law do for? Well, you said it was supposed to give us legal security, but it doesn't give us legal security. And so the citizens have been unable to understand whether professional health professionals, who have seen themselves growing more and more strict, and who, in the crudest part of this pandemy, have lived in the most serious state of their furs, residents, relations, and workers, or sectors of damage which these measures have been injured. And you, Mr. Urkullu, we saw you angry, always angry, always guilty. And one of the most obvious examples is the general criticism of the young. I don't deny, I don't deny that some young men, like adults, had, by the way, improper behaviors, indiscreet ones, very inadequate. But I really think that falling into general decalations is only breaking the tension between generations. There has been much talk of young men, but it has not really been seen or refused to see what being young in the midst of a pandemy is and what consequences it has. And I don't know whether we are conscious of what this may be supposed in the terms of challenge. I think we ought to talk a great deal about the future of the young men, and about the pretty things directed to them, to give their future light. On the other hand, Mr. Urkullu, you made up your mind to manage only pandemy. You remind us of your entire majority, and maybe that's your greatest weakness. Yes, Mr. Urkullu. The Basque Country carried you several proposals on the table, which you didn't even answer, and which later, in months, you've used out of place and out of order. You did this, and things could be done differently. When the cares are shared, the consequences are shared, but you don't share the responsibility, and that's your responsibility. Now we need a change, instead of based on a general reduction, by increasing preventive measures, by pushing the people's powers, by identifying and reorganizing the weakest sectors, if the injured sectors are to be harmed or taken under any measures, helping the sectors from the beginning, and doing the necessary physical measures. Prefectation and public health must be prepared for new times. I think we've lost time to take structure measures at this time, but let's do it: First attention, emergency, ethemological units, mental health, mental health, mental health, I repeat, chronic diseases, necessary pandemia, and now indispensable. The change is time, and change itself has become a new paradigm. And in front of that, Mr. Urkullu, the stability of your government is also taking shape in stability. In those days, if we do not make decisions as a people, we may find ourselves in a situation impossible to return; not only us, but the future of our descendants is at stake. Everything moves, everything perverts, changes from our desires, and our certainties fall. And in that context, the people feel a bit of fun, afraid of the future. And the fear of the future would often bring rise to the autoritation of evolution. We're seeing in several countries in Europe, and we're even seeing it in the Spanish State. And I wouldn't want to let it go without the constant attack of LGTB+ collective here and out of here. Unacceptable. And Mr. Agenza has already said that some of them commit hatred and spread hatred, and others make this hatred into terrible blows and attacks. The challenge of a responsible government is to offer a new security system, a strong protection for the future, a new order. And together with the climate crisis, and I'll speak more calmly later, if the elevation of social differences is also the failure of the global neolial socialization. And we're not safe here either. The necessity of meeting the flow of migration, as a people, seems to me very important, and as far as we are the signor of the treaty, we have an obligation to it. And a special allusion is to the demographic balance, to the minimum of historical birth rates, and the family of your government has not upset that tendency. I think there's some pretty young lawmaking that hasn't been there, and it doesn't seem like the Young Law will go any further in that sense. We have great challenges, and we have a few compasses to look at those challenges: ecology, feminism, mutual care, social justice, and the common identity rooted in the country of our culture, these compasses. And rights, all rights for all people. And speaking of rights to all people, I mean, as has been said before, it will soon be over since the Peace Conference at Aiete ten years ago. The only point of that path is complete. I remember when you were president of the Eudedi Controller's Council, you remarked that this first point was to be fulfilled. Only that first point has been completed. And after ten years we can say that we're better, we can't deny it, but there's still so much left to establish a lasting and complete peace. We plunged into a short-ranged discussion and amputation, mixed up in an old relatto, unable to improve the present and the future. Steps have been given in the conditions of the prisoner's life, as the map of dispertion represents, but the exceptions, the legislation, and the threats of the tribunals still follow. They're making trial of 13/13 in the Spanish National Court. A macrobook based on statements made under torture, we have been able to hear horrible witnesses of torture, and there is something to think about. Before all the victims were admitted and observed, the gradation and disorganisation of certain victims has been maintained. And I think that's the way you're going to meet him and just give him the steps to fix him once and for all... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... it has also been perpetuated by the institutional gradation and neglect. And I think it will be necessary to lead them on, and to give them time to settle for ever, for a lasting peace and for a living. And that's the commitment to the Basque People gathering. To seek a happy future for all the human dramas that have happened in this country, the rights of human rights are the axis of the dignity of all the people. I told you there were some things I wanted to study a little before. And one of them is a challenge of climate and energy. In fact, if we're talking about the future, Mr. Urkullu, we need to talk deeply of climate and energy. The scientific evidence is beyond doubt, and the shocks we're living are multiplying, and there's nothing but looking at the summer. In Canada or poles or a thousand examples, I will not repeat them here. And, Mr. Urkullu, we're not very well placed. Our temporal transition is paradigmatic. And that's the result of a long and obstinate strategy connected to the gas. And in the reduction of fluids causing climate change, data is hopeless. And one data reflects your mind well. Since you've been president, Mr. Urkullu, and a few years ago, we've only had a few more buttons. But instead of accepting failure with humility, you try to hide the problem by twisting the data. The situation demands acceptance of the crudeness of reality, and a bold decision to make a deep alliance between the nation and the house. Because the ecological transition transcends you and your government, because it's the responsibility of everyone, because it's something that affects the next generation. And I think it's time to start sending lights. The precise size of the gas-use, as has been mentioned here several times, is to be fined, the Basque agency of energy must put off fossils in Europe. 2 the ends of inclination must be grafted in the law of the climate. We need to reflect the ambition. And you have our hand open for that job. And polishing the climate and energy transition requires other things, such as waste politics. And as I'm talking about the waste policy, Mr. Urkullu, I'd like to remember what you said about the Horsebar. You said your responsibility is to try not to happen again. But it's your responsibility to find political responsibility for everything that happened. That's your responsibility, too. But, as I was saying, a decent transition will require another policy of ruin, as it will require, a movement, a house, food, industry, land planning. He's gonna ask for other policies. And all this without destroying social cohesion. So it's a good job. We don't have a lot of work to do. Therefore, if we must necessarily be in Madrid and Brussels, we must take measures in front of the scandalal elevation of the lighthouse. Mr. Urkullu, as well as here, is multiplying the number of people who can't use any other energy to ensure the worthy condition of life. And in winter, it could explode. And our screen system has to be told in front of this new emergency. The bill of law-proposital welfare that you've withdrawn from us. But we should resume what we've got there, because we have a chance of having one here, and we have a responsibility. In this context, we will enter the phase of a economic recovery in a phase of recovery. And the funds in Europe can be hooks, but if we've learned something in the past crisis and pandemies, it's true, and you've also spoken of teaching, what kind of recovery we want. And I also think that we should discuss. Because, otherwise, there are people who can't continue as they did in the previous crisis. And we'd have to step forward enough to leave someone behind us. You're talking about total snobbishness, but you've introduced us to the resurrect plan. And that doesn't have anything to do with it. I've just mentioned your proposal in economic areas, it's easy to sum up. You want to move forward, but backing up. It's the backward steps we've found here. You're trying to sell us the unemployment rate is a good ten percent when it's a step back, averaged European at 7%. And especially the young and the women, you have not made any proposal to face the premium. To formulate any employment objective for this country that is not moving towards full quality employment is not to have an employment strategy, and more so in a gigantic labour market relief scenario, with the massive retirement process that will take place in that decade, 500,000 jobs, Mr Urkullu, 500,000 opportunities to do better. The abolishing of the Law of Job in the Spanish State is the first step, on the other hand. And there's need to be a collision plan against the working strip that's the right result of precarnation. More than 120 people have died in the Basque Country for the past three years. And that's terrible. And it is necessary that the minimum wage should be of the size of the cost of life of our country, and consequently here to decide. In the midst of this technological revolution we live in, a wager for research and development is indispensable. And it's been years since Collecting the Basque Country has said that it would be necessary to make a great compact between the various agents, to lead to three percent of the raw internal exploitation and development. We think it's vital, Mr. Urkullu. And another important axis is digitalization. You also said the digitalization you mentioned and the government strategy. But I think the name of strategy is big. Digitization is not buying some computers. Our life is a process that will change from top to bottom. Our DNA? They're touching it. And that will cause risks and chances. Our country must be prepared to take advantage of these chances and face these risks, because it will change our lives and because we can't accept the rifts. Digitization and investigation are the basis of a strong industrial political transition, together with the neurological and ecological transition at the present day. And that's really a bet on the industry in this town. We've been asking for the root fund for years, but it hasn't started. And this year we've seen Euscalel get into the hands of foreign funds. And then you tell us we'll be at the champions. [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... But it hasn't started. And this year we've seen Euscalel get into the hands of foreign funds. And then you tell us we'll be at the Champs-Elysees, and you'll be at the Champion of excuses, but this is one thing that could be foreseen and what happened. And though there have been difficulties in many sectors, yet we have seen them start out in so many other companies, and take upon them as excuses: Petror, we saw the workers of Tubacex here this morning, ITP, Aernova, H &M. And your government has always been lined up next to the patrician, and the majority against the syndicate. We need to talk about the watch pattern, too. You have proposed to encourage transitional policies when you speak, and we would say that you have made a certain full correction to what has hitherto been proposed, because it is already indissoluble that the ruin of the watch system is already indisputable. Around the retreats, the only thing to remark on your part is the protocol, so I'll tell you by the way, I thought it was no time. But in any case, watchers are the founder of social differences, and, owing to your political choice, they are those who have created feminists, opticians, and men. We shall discuss this also in the law of equality; it will be indispensable to speak of it in this law of equality. This compels us to accept the universal property necessary for care. One of our great wants is to get out of the guard's field and to create organizations that guard and guard them. You told us that social policies have improved, but maybe we should ask the residents, relatives and workers. And we need to talk about protection, too. The social differences in the Araba, the Biscaia, and the Gipu, and there are 22,500 people in danger of falling into a state of severe poverty. And the opportunity may open a window if the minimum income to live is made full transfer, and it should come as a whole to guarantee the incomes for the maintenance and opening of our own system in the rent reform. To attain all these goals, science, prepared in the first row, must be well paid. And education is at the base of all that. And Esscal is stopping at high school. In the past ten times, if in a great measure of public initiatives the hinges have been answered, we are not able to advance a steady step in the process of construction of our education system, and to accommodate ourselves to new times. COVID-19 has, however long it may be observed, discovered a contaminatement: education system is out of date. He cannot answer the roots of future times as a people, and satisfy all the needs of his pupils. I mean, by the downfall of birth, by different segregations, or by the extreme resolutions of life, not to be here, as others. But we believe that this people has sufficient ability to rethink and interpret the model of education. This, indeed, ought to be established among the different kinds of society, among parties, among the agents of education, amongst schools, and among the people, new complicity must be established. We need to give this time, Mr. Urkullu. And from the United States of Euscala, we confirm the will and commitment to an education agreement. I'd like to mention the situation as a Basque. It has something to do with education, but what education is we won't ask, and there are other systems that have to be produced. But when I mention the situation of the eucalyptus, I must mention, systematically, the intolerable attacks which I am afraid of. It's no coincidence that attacks appear now. They have a certain political purpose, and they are clearly connected with the political competition of those who believe that they will lose a place for the assault of the ultra right and the right ultra right, with those who are ready to sleep. We have to guarantee the use of the Basque. It's a challenge to fit in all the next changes and spread them all around. It is also time for us to build ecosystems, to adapt to language policy, to adapt ourselves to these female tenets, and to take initiative and leadership on the path suggested by the operators on the side of the eucalyptus. To hit what has been said before, I would like to insist on the need of a powerful public sector. In this sense the public security network is indispensable, and likewise the direct public intervention to promote the modification of the economy. Without complexities, public corporations must be pushed behind liberal topi. To extend the public service network, we need economic resources to strengthen the public sector and direction the transformation. And those are gonna have to be done by tax. It's time to start the integral form of taxes to finance the protection of our society's needs and strategic changes. You didn't mention it, Mr. Urkullu, but the special measures we have to take now to deal with the hinges before us, to answer when there is not much stream of money, because a form of tax was not made in two days, and it will be indispensable. You've talked about the investuns, and you've already proposed to do this with the remanents. Well, I'll ask you a question. Was he a realist or wasn't he what the Basque People said? Was it a fake? Was it a fake? Was there money or wasn't there to strengthen health or protect damaged sectors? Now, all you have to do is find out which way to use these funds. You mentioned the partnership. We, with the European funds, have offered assembling, and have received no answer. But it's not a pretence, and in front of these challenges you'll have that invitation to each other again. We need the ability to face all of these challenges, and we don't. And it's time to make decisions. It's been years since we've postponed the debate, listening to the general, general, self-referring call. And again and again, reality shows that we don't go any further. And we must still hear, in some cases, that, for instance, on your side President, we are not in a hurry, I once told Mr. Egibar that we would be in eternity. But now we have... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... As for the President, we are not in a hurry; I once told Mr. Egibar that we should be in eternity. But now we're in a hurry because we don't have enough instruments that people need, and because we don't have the instruments we need to answer. This is the government we have, which accuses the oppression of auto-generacy, and at the same time says that which the right of deciding leads us to half-time, as PSOE says. It seems to be a two-sided government, but really, at the time of truth, which always accepts right. Mr. Vinez used to say that we agreed on 80% of Autogobernu Poncia. If, then, there is no ability to advance, or if we do not advance, there will be a minimum of respect for a majority. You have asked us today about full foral reintegration, and I would like to know whether this has been consulted with your partner. Ze XXI. Mendean, ez dakit, nahikoa da foruen bereskuratze osoa herri honori irtenbidi bat emateko? Eztabaida akademiko battik harago nahikoa da? Time for the exit of the lehenengo galdera. Baina, is the full external reintegration decoded in terms of the 21st century called the Basque State, Mr Urkullu? Is this what you meant? And if this is so, here is Autogobernu Poncia, here are the principles and principles of Autogobernu Poncia. We accepted the principles and principles together with Poseidon for a while. We're here, Mr. Urkullu. And what I'm asking is where you are. In front of this majority, this government, or this part of this government, is concerned with. And I've seen a recipe in your speech, Mr. Urkullu. The right to decide has vanished from your speech, and I have really thought it disturbing. because it condemns this people to submit, and because they deny a dispute to this people. Look, Mr. Urkullu, you put it up for 2015 to consult this town yourself. You said the right to make decisions for 2020 would be operational, if I'm not mistaken, I remember the last in New York, Columbia University. And I want to ask you where your word is. Herritarren % 70ak inkesten arabira dio wasbakitzeko eskubideeren alde dagoela. Horrek ez of the baliorik Gobernu honored? Let us not trap the lonely, you know that the time has come to move forward and enter a resolute phase. It's time to tell the truth. Whether we believe in democracy and the decisions that this people make or do not believe. Because that is what it is about, democracy, respect for the majority will of this people, that we can all defend and also materialize our democratic political projects, if they have the support of the majority. Some have that opportunity, others don't have it, we don't have it. And through your speech you have spoken with sincerity, and let us tell this people what the proposition of each of them is. I'll tell you again, the Basque Country is here to collect. We agreed on these principles and principles in Autogone Poncia with the Jestral Party and together with Podemos. I'm going to finish. It is necessary, as society, to discuss the direction of certain ends in shared ways, so that the powers of this country should not be divided, but that they should be agreed and concentrated on these ends. I told you the entries that appear in the latest version of the Euskadi A.H.C.s. I told you that one day I thought it best to reflect what the future of our country should be, but it must not be rhetoric, it must not be rhetoric. We agree with what is said here, that from this shared point of view there may arise great possibilities. We need political plans, and time is running out. The pandemic has accelerated digital development, and there are only a few years to achieve a radical energy transformation, to abandon fossil fuels, to drastically reduce emissions if we really want to avoid an out-of-control climate disorder. We are facing an historic port, and three terrible revolutions: Mythical ecological, digital and demographic. And we have to put all the forces in this town in the right direction. And we know that it is necessary to unite forces in a well-defined country project. We are prepared to give our best, and we believe that in the presence of the three great crisis, about five great axiss, it is necessary to establish a pact between generations, and thus we wish to point out to this people. One: Climate neutrality. A hundred socionomical Euscali integration strategy completely. Two: the whole employment of quality, the loss of labour, of labour, of division, of wages, or of relations of labour. Three: to build a public watch system, to ensure maintenance of the veins. Moreover, we find it necessary to meet with this demographic reality, which threatens to increase the character of a genus. All this requires a deep community sense, a sense of belonging to an open and supportive community, and in an era of uprooting and identity crisis in which with the same strength as the need for material security is manifested as belonging, every transformative proposal must be entangled with the beliefs or memory most rooted in the national imagination. And here we have the concept of a nation proposed by Joseba Sarrionandia, a space of communication. And therefore to this compact of generation we must add two other duties: euscal educational system, inspired in the most advanced northern systems of Europe, will establish the basis of a genuine pedagogical revolution, the perfect normalization of education and the total normalisation of the eucalyptic social eloquence in favor of a national pact for a language that will activate the opportunity to achieve euscalized eloquence. These are missions, these missions we need tools to arrive and perform. That's why I announced... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... a national pact for one. These are missions, these missions we need tools to arrive and perform. That is why I have proclaimed the necessity of a new state. You spoke of happiness, Mr. Urkullu, and I want a happy society too. That's what we all want. But do you know that only 12% of the young people of our day will think he'll be happier than his parents? Maybe that ought to give us a thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. [[Applause]] Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u16	Yesterday he told me to be whitewashed with a friend, and you have a debate tomorrow, and politics aren't completely exhausted? Debats or whatever it is." And I said, "Bueno, I'll try to find the positions we've got on the way to light things up." And it's true that we haven't had a discussion in normality for the last few years, and today at least we're all present, and that's also a notation of joy. Let's hope we can take off the kiss from now on, if conditions are allowed that way. It is true that the assault of the twins, which we had known 20 years ago, was then produced, I should say, was reactivated, the subject of Afghanistan, and we have seen about these events around them for 20 years in the course of celebrations or regrets for whatever they are, but Afghanistan is the problem again. We see again, 20 years later, that the paradigm of war and violence is in force. And we see at the same time that the oppression of all these human rights is at this moment a direct expression, but especially a woman and the next. We see also a pandemy, how invisible a virus has stopped the world, the planet has stopped. And this also gives men a new warning, that nature, the environment, and the nature of man, may be observed by nature, or this will be worse. And there's a number of challenges and choices we have to make. I would also like to say what Europe has done in all this. What did Europe do on the points mentioned? We'll talk later about Pandemia. As before, losing Europe, late and bad. There was a war in his time, but there were witnesses and the leading men in Europe. And, on the other hand, we see that the same decision which had been made in its time with Syria, namely, to give to Turkey the part of the police at the frontiers, which Europe has shown to be the best remedy for matters. There have been good news for the past 20 years, and it has been mentioned here before that it was good news for this country that it had been ten years and had disappeared. It has been mentioned here that some points are still to be developed in that meeting at the Aete. Well, what I've got is that something was declared, but it really decided to disappear. It was decided in February the same year. And from that point on, I miss it 10 years ago, and I miss the defense that the patriot on his left side has had to make some critical reflection about what he supposed. And for some reasons: because they are marks of want of realism and lack of cohesion towards society. Each of them represents the little part of his society, but in general this critical consideration shows this deficit. I wish after 10 years he'd take that defense away from the patriotic left and disappear. Why, now, the patriot on the left lives politics in theory and ideological abstraction, and you have to land, you have to land. And that deficiency is there. We've had elections 14 months ago, the government has completed a year ago, and I think the pandemia has been faced with all its limits, and, in a decent way, from the offer of cooperation and response. Another question is, that this agreement, or all these proposals made by the President of the Union, has been heard or correlative; and it is certain that he has had to fight under severe conditions, and that in this development of the fundamental rights of all men, there were boundaries between the alarm and alarm. But in front of all the needs of the village and people, the Presidents, the funk, and I'd say the bet that all the organizations have made, and I'm going to make a review of it, I think... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... I suppose the parlamentary group of opposites, which have been made by all the institutions, I suppose, has agreed together to a law with the members of the other government, but the opposition has not really taken the measure of all this history. Why, it's true we have an absolute majority, but we're not stupid. And we know that with you, if we'd arranged for you... With you, too, together with Podemos... that the forces of our agreement are multiplied. And that it's much stronger for society. And that's one thing to do in common. And that's not because the government's trying to hide and hide its responsibility. Why, whoever helps the government is a part of... I mean, if you'd like to, or if you'd like to do whatever he likes... and if it goes wrong, it is not the responsibility of the opposition, but of the person in authority. And that's not understood. Most of the nations in Europe, not to mention them all, have understood. Not here. And in the middle of that, we've had events, riots... they have been mentioned. And there... This is not because we read the texts of the patriotic left, why it is true that it has been a very strong clue that the Pandemia has left behind. And one part of society, however, has felt tired, another still fears, and perhaps a majority is there, seeing when it will end, and a complete new life, or a new one, when the moment will come to work. And in this regard, about the covida, I believe there has been a debate between the rights of men and the community. And it is true, they are the characteristics of euscal society, because we are advanced in industry. It is true that we have a great income of one another, and are nevertheless market and consumption, one of the main engines of our economy. And in this world, individualism and community balance are not easy. It's not easy. But what is clear is that the institutions which have to deal with the covida are extremely important and most important. But so will each of us. Today this combine has not been seen, and the rights of the individual freedom and community are to be cared for. But I think he's been here, and there's another debate about Donostia riots. There is not here the result of a model that can be a neoliberary for leisure. Here's another story, and some of you know it, and it's the police type, the part that's supposed to be the police. And that's written down. It's said: "To the last week's events, the silence given, will account for different things. One of them, from a revolutionary point of view, is the sector that is trying to push the dispute on the reform of the law that is unacceptable... "I don't know. Your sector, huh? Not the other one. Merche A sighs and Arnuldo Orices, after the exception of the situation, summarize the position of the latter; the demand for more coercitive measures, and the intention of producing them in police force. In the case of Donostia, EH has only been led to despise thebandal actions, declaring their uneasiness to the multinationals, and not saying a word to the persecuted, considering and accepting all that were done by armed persons as normal. In short, violence is the natural value of the police. By force it was created to secure a certain world of vision, and remains in it. So to think of a democratic or communicative police model is a fundamental error, unless you have merely the purpose of governing the same system which is now established. It's more complicated, because the real abolition of police in the old world necessarily requires the construction of all the posts. This is a discussion between your young men, the Socialist Ernai and the Young Coordinadora. So debat is not an entertainment model, but a real police abolishion, yes or no. This isn't inventory, is it? It's published in a Donostian paper. Read them, look who they are. And, said I, Europe, and even in context, I think we must mention Europe, why I have already said that with Turkey, and now in Afghanistan, I can't solve it-to get rid of the problem, push away the problem. Europe, however, has determined to maintain economic stability and employment; it has the power to do it. And this affects public affairs directly. Besides, it is the title to transforming the economy, we have the foundations of Europe to transform. But the way to do it, no one to get involved... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... But, in order that no one should be mistaken, the scholars, I hear and ask him, believe in them, he says, why the state has put the money machine in motion, and why the debt of all the States has taken possession of him. And that'll only take a while. And the plainest thing is that the raw contest has been raised from the hand of the consumption, and that the public expense is due to it. So 21 and 22, and preventive growths are good, around seven points, but in 23, kanka, 1,5, 2% can be lowered to %2. And we see that the Spanish Government wants to play with the European funds within the legislation and the calendar. He wants to get to 23 with the platic Sanchez. And what's clear is that if we don't pay attention to 23, they'll do things that might have the ability to transfer their debt, but the opportunity and discipline to defend them will vanish and the situation may be difficult. Why now it seems that economic growth can take us away, I don't know, because... Let's go. Well, there's the data. If we don't play properly in 23rd, 21 and 22, government can feel pressure, and I don't know, then we've talked about those European funds, and it's also clear that the right way to negotiate, or time, is the government's information. We know something, but it is clear that it is outside the legislature, that this alliance is not to be made between governments and oppositions, but between governments. And if it's that confidence, if it wants to negotiate, I won't say in secret, but in another way he might be respected here even inside the house. But social business is, in theory, a matter of government. But Sánchez has decided to run away from him. And for the last few months he's been hanging on televistes. The cyclists said, "If you want to go fast, go on alone, and if you want to go far, go with me." And if this community is placed in the manufacture of segestium on one side, it may happen, and we would not, if the autonomous associations, communities, or a political community with a national character like ourselves, do not change the government of Spain, unless the order which I derive from the Ministry is made by the lynxinary order, and to fix the role of autonomous societies. And that's all that can happen. And even in money, if the money is true, they must return half the funds. They say we have three percent, and that's less than half of the population, and it's down the middle of our 6,24. And if they're going to come back, they'll also be back, I don't know, if $3,000's got to come back in 30 years, they'll have to go back every year to 100 million. So we have to get these projects straight too, and we have to figure them out. And what the president has proposed is the first year of the year, people have suffered a great deal, and also the manager of the organizations in every department. But, well, this year has come by and we'll take advantage of the tools we've got to encourage economic recovery and create employment. And it says resurrect, European funds, and, of course, budgets. And if we go through words, he says we have such projects, and we're going to make an investment plan directly married to the projects, and it's about 1,600 million. Well, there's something. And we'll have a chance to discuss all this. That's why I've mentioned the business, but I haven't actually seen Sánchezi at the Courts of Madrid asking questions. The management of the European funds directly belongs to him, and I have not an initiation which he had seen; not to ask, or to condition, or to anything. And here it is well to mention it, and he may even have a logic not to mention it in the Navarre. We don't mention Madrid, there's the Social Party, here in Navarrian, PSN, and here, well, there's PSE, but here the question or responsibility is required to PNV. And so it is with the prosecutor of reform. Look, it'll be all right, and it's true, it's true, it's about to take a look at what the Secretary of Reformation asks for, and it's true that the pandemics have completely abolished all the parameters, and the chief physician says, "Well, when this is stable, we'll make the figure, the examination of all types, and then we'll see what reforms we encourage." It's true. And it's true that at Navarro he's understood and signed EH Collect. It's said in Navarre, and it's signed, just as the present sanitary, social and economic crisis is over, we're committed to rethink the attorney-general politics... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... As soon as the present sanitary crisis, social and economic, is over, we are engaged to rethink the attorney-general politics. And that, too, is here, but don't accuse me here unless it's in other places. It's the same with the environment. And he mentioned it. And I think there's a necessity for a combination of reality here. I've heard you many times here, and I don't just believe you, but you're a militant environment and transition, and you're in the field of climate change. And an expert. So, isn't it true? Well, scientists have solved all this. Well, human beings. We, each of us, okay? What's the problem? The global warming, the main one, how we develop our life, which, consequently, has come to be. And that requires, if we wish to free the future of the succeeding generations, we must now commit ourselves, and for many years. Euskadi is a highly developed country of industrial life. In order to maintain that level, energy is indispensable. When we mention the neuroptic transition, our industry needs energy, we need energy in our homes. Both of us, what have we got? Natural gas, 40% of consumption, 40% of power, 40 percent of power. Retainable energy consumption is small: 14%. And production is still smaller. To change our Egyptian example, we must take strong steps and resolutions, great ones. My God, in 2015, it's running the climatical strategy route. And by 50, the energy model is compromised to be neutral, it is committed. But for 24th, we have to go down to 30% of the gas leaks of the heat effect and increase the amount of retended energy to 20 percent. And today, we have 14%. That requires efficiency, right? The production must increase. How do we increase production? And it's clear that all that's in our power we'll have to put oil and plates on them. And for me, it's no use saying: "We agree with the final end, but not with the means"; Oh, there's no windmill in it. You can't put it on. Well, well, because PTS has to be accepted and retarded. Aber, why is the retractable energy production so limited in our country? Why? Because of your round refusals, you have great ability for negatives. That's why, the question is, how long you're going to explain your commitment to reality. (O sera? ) You know the shadow you have and the power to refuse. But to build? Then each one has to take his own steps. And to say: "Yes, not macro-substructions, but small ones." Well, let's measure it, and decide what to do, but we either get out of this top or we don't keep it from the 24th or from the 50th. But then we won't be responsible for others. Well, I think there's a responsibility we've got in front of this. A new state about political status. It is evident, then, that in advance the State of Guernica ought to be carried out, and that this has been an immense delay. But 41 years of delay seems to be pointless. And if one says: "And why have the governments of Spain played one after the other with this vileness? Why don't you follow a law and close a phase and open a new one? "Or some one thinks: "No, this stage, as long as the development of the state is not closed, no news will be expanded?" Why, it seems like that's the game. Eta, Anduezak, garbi hitz egin du. In other words, he has spoken so clearly that he has told us that his proposal is that the majority should be submitted to the minority. You have made a description here of what most people want to say, but you submit to the minority. Gehiengoa gutxiengoaren aurrean makurtu. Bestela, it's horregatik beto gurutzatuak ez ditugu onartzen. Eta, zuk, ia lapsus bat eduki duzu, edo lapsus bathe gehiago, statue eta statusa aipatzen. Zergatik, ikasita donkazuena da, ba Ramón Jáuregik esan duena udara honetan, as mission of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party: improving the Statute yes, changing the status no. And that is precisely what it is about: to change the status, so that the Statute is fulfilled. The current one, not fulfilled, and the future. Statue berritu, hobetu, bai, bath Status aldatu ez. Oh, hemen gakoa's hour. Bestela, lamb bat egingo nizuke: Zuk, ze bide demokratiko o politiciko, legezkoa...?... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] This is the key. If not, I would ask you a question: You, of course, offer to the majority of this people a political and legitimate form of democracy, if the majority wants more self-governments, or a whole self-generacy, or a majority of them? What's the way? This town doesn't have a path? Politics can't open a door for democracy? That question must be answered and not put on red stripes. And don't tell me that the right of deciding is to return to the Middle Ages. To the Middle Ages. What kind of snobbishness is that? What's this innovation? What door does that open? Can it not be a democratic answer, I say, if this legislature does the most extensive agreement, we shall give it the way. And if you're involved, it's better. But if a majority decides that way, what's the problem with the Social Party? Then there's also EH Collector's. Yes, yes, it's very simple to understand, very easy to understand. And that's where you're more expert than I am. Extra targets and tactical targets. If the building of the Basque nation is of the strategic purpose, and I doubt at times whether it is yours, why being left independent means something else to my opinion, and it proves itself to be proved, even in Catalonia. If the construction of the nation is an strategic goal, why do you give so many tactical forces? Why is it a tactical purpose to leave the PNV government? Yes, yes. And Maddalen shakes his head, but you're asking for it this summer. I, the political life was exhausted, and I have not offered any attention to my friends, but you have made a couple of entrebres, you and the Geri peasants. And they're very illuminating. Why you, in this case (... ) when you are asked, "Bueno, together Podemos, por qué ha lgado a non acerdo con el PNV?" "I don't know. And he says, "ha, Podemos nangeto del ja no foamice en la entrevista Beauce quiere colocarse en el centro del tablero." "Ha sido un modimiento extraraño." "The Socialist Party. If the Socialist Party had free hands, we would have understanding in many more things. The Socialist Party is manipulated and often gagged. So, will we see left-wing bloc ruling Euskadi? I'm convinced of it. I hope it's sooner than later." Next question, already about the status, because the strange movement and that are manipulated and gagged already has been said, the conclusion is that you can talk or you can agree with anyone less with the PNV. And it's not because I want the exclusiveness in the relationship for EH Bildu, but because they want to prepare the alternative, another thing is to give the conditions, as reflected by Gari Mujika in the interview, but the vault key is here. Is the debate on the right to decide not an insurmountable obstacle to understanding with the Socialist Party? You don't have to. When we make an agreement, we can see what is left of the agreement and what is left of it; let each have his or her hands free on some issues and on others let us have a government agreement from a left-wing and progressive point of view. Then, welcome to the club, that we have already agreed the discrepancy with the Socialist Party, the issue is where is the strategic objective if it is that of national construction? Or is it the one on the so-called independenceist left? Hor dago gakoa. I know they've been waiting long. Yeah? Well, I'll leave it for later. Well, in the meantime, have a good time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. After you're done with the legal teams, you're done with it, Mr. President. It's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u18	Chief of Parliament. This discussion about the general politics has been made at the crucial moment, or we're doing it. For the last year and the last half we've been through the biggest sanitarian, economic, emotional crisis in our recent history. We've all been through the consequences of this pandemy directly or indirectly. We reminded him of the people who have died of her, not just me in the morning, but also some of you during the afternoon. We have declared solidarity to their relatives and friends. As we know, after so much effort, the euscal society is tired and exhausted, as if we had suffered a shipwreck, and had to swim for 18 months to reach the shore. Fortunately, the edge is close. You can see the light at the end of the tunnel. Massive mistake, the rhythm of enterprise activity, and the symptoms of the worst stage are gradually produced. We're facing a moment of hope. The moment is different, although in this debate there have been the usual schemes, as it cannot be... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] We are facing a moment of hope. The time is different, although the usual schemes have occurred in this debate, as it cannot be otherwise. The opposition underlines the differences and shortcomings of management, drawing a photograph mostly in negative that does not generate hope. In my view, perhaps even excessively dramatic in some interventions. But this is no time for reproach. I contrasted this photograph with a more positive vision, a vision that values the effort made by the whole of Basque society and the results obtained. I didn't hide the shadows this morning. I have recognized the mistakes we have made in managing the pandemic. But I will also say that the United Nations itself, the United Nations itself, has recognized the collective failure to manage an unknown pandemic. I haven't hidden the shadows. I have acknowledged the suffering of the most disadvantaged people and groups, also the problems of businesses, small businesses or self-employed people or the precariousness of employment. I have made known the Government's comprehensive performance in meeting the commitments made a year ago. That is what it is all about, having submitted a Government Programme and reporting, reporting here on what has been done for a year in order to comply with the Government Programme. I have put into value the delivery of all and all professionals of essential services, especially health and social health services, especially. Today we find ourselves at a moment of bridge between two times, a moment of global transformation that looks to the next decade. And I'm holding hands with collaboration. I reiterate the open readiness to dialogue and negotiate on the budget proposal for the coming year 2022, which will mark the beginning of a new socio-economic cycle of the future. This commitment to dialogue and collaboration is shared within the Government also between the two groups that support it, between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. And I am grateful for the work done by both parliamentary groups in this long year of legislature conditioned by the pandemic. It has been a hard journey in which we have always found understanding, support and complicity, a political, institutional and also personal, emotional closeness, which we especially appreciate at times of great affection in all the orders of our community life. I would like to make an assessment of the response to the pandemic according to what was some of the first interventions in the afternoon session. Having listened to the interventions of the groups, I consider it essential to make a fair assessment of the response offered to the pandemic, first of all, by society, which, in the majority, has responded to, understood and complied with the guidelines that have affected our personal, family and social lives. I said it and I repeat it. No, Mrs. Iriarte, I'm not angry. No, I'm not mad. Seriousness, rigour and self-responsibility. That is what I have been stressing over and over again in the first person of the singular and in the first person of the plural. Not in the second person, not in the third person. In the first person of the singular and in the first person of the plural. We can proudly say that the response of Basque society has been exemplary. And I've said it on other occasions too. And along with that, I stress the response of the Department of Health and Osakidetza. And I want to share an objective and comparative, objective and comparative assessment. In the field of prevention, 100,300 tests per 100,000 inhabitants have been carried out in Euskadi this year, 2021. In Spain, 68,500. And the source is the Ministry of Health. In the field of hospitalizations of sick people. Hospitalizations since the beginning of the pandemic have been 812 per 100,000 inhabitants in Euskadi. In Spain they have exceeded 880 on average. In the field of assistance to the most serious persons. Income in ICUs since the beginning of the pandemic has been 73 per 100,000 inhabitants in Euskadi. In Spain, 83. And the source is still the Ministry of Health. I complete the assessment with the fundamental result of all our efforts, that is, safeguarding people's lives. The increase in deaths in 2020 compared to the previous year was 12.4% in Euskadi. In Spain it was 17.7%. And the maximum occurred in Madrid with 41.2%. And the source is the National Institute of Statistics. Therefore, an objective assessment. More tests have been carried out in Euskadi, fewer people have been hospitalized and fewer have been admitted to ICUs, more progress has been made in vaccination. In Euskadi, comparatively fewer people have died than in the state average. I will not go into what is a reference to the situations that have been experienced in other communities of the State. Could we have done better? No doubt, yes. But let us also acknowledge that we have done better than our environment. Let us recognize that the Department of Health and Osakidetza continues to make progress in the recovery of face-to-face care. In fact, the proposal to the LABI Advisory Council is aimed at encouraging the return to face-to-face performance in public administration and companies. This means gradually resuming the services of primary care, hospital care, medical consultation or face-to-face nursing. It is a new step again that insists on the commitment to the health professionals, to the whole member of the Osar and to the Department of Health. They deserve all the institutions and the social approval and gratitude. Mine too... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... The guy who insists on the division's commitment. They deserve all the institutions and the social approval and gratitude. They deserve mine too, and get it back. That response was possible thanks to our self-portrait institutions. I'm talking about co-operation, social services as I'm talking about the edgelines, our social protection system, all the basic services, the professionals who work and correct these services. The Pandemia has doubtless revealed our fragility, but it has also revealed the strength of our public services. Mention has been made of the deputies, pardon, residences. And I just want to say what I stressed this morning: the social and health strategy, the agreement reached on 23 August in an area where there are different institutional levels and where the competence over what may be some of the issues that have been raised corresponds to the Members. Pandemia's lesson: We have to encourage bargains. In my speech I'm about to open a new time for the neighborhood looking forward to the future and looking at my daily management projects and programs. Although this may be the case, the words I have heard in the afternoon might perhaps be summed up in a sentence in the mouths of the legislature. The government doesn't want to talk, or rather the president doesn't want to talk. Maybe that's the way you can sum up from what you've heard. I repeat, our conversation is complete, when we have not the majority in this legislature, and at this moment, when we have the majority, it is the same. We want interviews and agreements, which is our model. In a month, as I said before, we'll accept the next year's budget project, which is the highest intention in our history, the most social and the investor. We'll try to negotiate and agree with the opposition groups. You introduced me to a document at the meeting we had before summer at the Basque Country and together Podemos. I can't say the same about Popular Party-Ciudadans. And for my part, after the meeting, I answered and sent you a bulletin document. Most of the proposals you have made are in motion, at least in the proposals which we have jurisdiction over. Iriarte andrea, zuek 123 neurons proposed zenizkiguten. Guztietan akordioak jorratu dizazkegula were a genius. Berez, zuen proposemenen horien, edo proposemen horien % 70 inguru garatzen ari dira. Ordudanik, zuen weretzuna weretzun eza izan da. Hemen bean was nizun. Abuztuan, bai, artikulu bat egunkari batan argitaratu, bathing beasts erantzunik ez. Eta nik posetzen nizun, I asked you, Mrs Iriarte, regarding EH Bildu's proposals in the economic area and employment, what could be the work and meeting points, what were the topics requested in progress. I also asked him in the area of essential public services, what were the possible common work points and meeting points, and I also asked him about the requested topics that were in progress. In the area of governance and self-government, I also raised with you the joint work points and possible meeting points, as well as the requested topics that were already under way. Ladies and gentlemen of EH Bildu, everything would be much easier if you were consistent with yourselves and with society. The truth is that, as has been said, they find it much easier to agree in Spain or in Navarre than here, yes, it should also be said that it is easier for them, not only because they can be strategies or tactics in the future, but because the Government of Navarre needs them and because the Spanish Government, to some extent, also needs them. We have an absolute majority, which, I think, is absolutely worth redundancy, legitimate, and yet we are willing to reach agreements. This week, for example, you have approved the spending ceiling of the Spanish Government, supposedly in exchange for nothing. I do not understand that they show more confidence and commitment to the Spanish budget than to the Basque budget, for example, in two previous years, as has been said. Elkarrekin-We can. We are working on most of the subjects that you called "the Basque social shield" in your proposal. Mrs Gorrotxategi, as reflected in the document I sent you, almost three out of four of your proposals are under way. The main exception is those beyond our competence, which is more than one tenth of the issues they raised. For the United Nations We can use social policies, public policies that apply in Euskadi – public policies and also public-private policies that apply in Euskadi – for the United Nations we can refer to other areas of the State and the autonomy in which they co-govern. The same applies, for example, to the 2030 Agenda. This was confirmed both by Mr. Pablo Iglesias when he came here to Euskadi, as well as by the minister and general coordinator of Unidad Podemos, Ione Belarra. I hope that we can make progress on new agreements such as those we have reached so far. The Government and the parliamentary groups that support it share the will to dialogue and negotiate with all opposition parties, including the People's Party, even though we have no specific proposals. That's right, with the right dose of realism, seriousness and discretion... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... with the People-Citizens, even though we did not have any specific proposals. That is so, with the proper dose of realism, seriousness and discretion that the relevance of the issues raised deserves. Our disposition is total. It was when we didn't have an absolute majority, obviously, and it is now that we have it. To the tests me (...?)). The past year saw the adoption of 113 matters in the plenary of this Parliament. 113. Nearly half, 47 %, have been negotiated and agreed on the support of other parliamentary groups. For a proposal to come forward, it is obvious that it is necessary to count on those who reflect the absolute majority. Well, 47% of the initiatives that have been or have been welcomed for adoption have been negotiated and agreed with the support of other parliamentary groups, in addition to the groups supporting the Basque Government. We are going to work to agree on the 2022 budgets, because they will mark the starting point of the economic and social revival of Euskadi. This purpose, following the pandemic we are living in, deserves to unite all possible forces. Entering into some issues specific to the interventions of each of the parliamentary groups. There are other interventions or other issues that would be included in framework issues, because various parliamentary groups have referred to the same issues. But entering into the specific issues. Mrs. Martinez, look, I have no problem calling you Vox. None. Not at all. However, in keeping with what the House's own Rules of Procedure say as regards the composition of parliamentary groups, you are the Vox Joint Group. I don't have a problem. And in all the speeches, I refer to the Vox Joint Group. And, in any case, speaking of the health cord, Mrs Martínez, you yourself put on the health cord when you refused to meet with me in the second round of meetings with the leaders or with the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups. I called him, like I did in the first round. He's been criticizing this Saturday's demonstration. First, such acts are appealed to both the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and the National Court and are not prohibited. As has not been the call for this next Saturday by the National Court today. Secondly, the Basque Government's view is clear: rejection of any form of escalation of terrorism or violence, rejection of attitudes that may hurt the victims' sensitivities or revictimize them. The Basque Government will participate tomorrow in the event organized by the Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism. Third, coexistence, the present and the desired future need constructive contributions, not feeding the chryspation. I think that's the unwanted past already. Otherwise, you have gone up to repeat your common places. I think I could also describe them as exaggerations and populisms. In any case, he says Vox comes to fly the flag of freedom. And then he points out that his project for Euskadi is more Spain and less self-government. In fact, it comes to impose the Spanish model. His speech I think is still for Spain and not for Euskadi. Mr Iturgaiz, with regard to one of the specific issues that you have mentioned. With regard to the attacks on militants of your party, for the mention that you have made that I have said nothing in this morning's intervention. It is true that I made no mention of this issue in this morning's speech. But I have personally written to you as many times as these absolutely despicable situations have been. I've criticized him in public. And I repeat to you today and I will say it as many times as I need to. He says he's coming to lay down his hand, but it seems that, instead, he's come with a line of misfortunes. Municipal ambulances, trackers, seasonal rerun of unemployment. Then I will refer to some of the issues, Mr Iturgaiz. And in view of its seasonal data, I believe that Euskadi is today the least unemployed community in Spain, in any case. Self-congratulation is not a risk that could only affect the Government. We are constantly accused in all kinds of general policy debates or investment debates, in their case too, of self-congratulation. And I don't think it's a risk, I insist, that it could only affect the government. Also a speech like yours, for example. Self-congratulation is to criticize everything, to criticize everything, and not to commit to anything, despite insisting on what is a hand-held discourse. In the face of demagogy, I offered him self-criticism. I believe that a whole first part of this morning's intervention has been absolutely self-critical. It's been in Basque, that's right. I have offered you objective data and I have offered you areas of collaboration. You speak of negationism. And there is also denial of the progress of this society despite the difficulties or obstacles. Denialism of the severity of the pandemic crisis. Half of his speech has been to criticize the Sánchez coalition government and the support of the Basque Nationalist Party for the Sánchez coalition government. And I remind you that that's almost 500 kilometers south. This is the Basque Parliament. I'll talk about Education later. But I also remind you, by a mention you've made, that we have one of the best professional formations in the world and we have the most percentage... the highest percentage of senior graduates. And I think that itself speaks very well of Basque education as a whole, also of primary and secondary education. He says we have or want to take down the Statute. You simply tell me, I have raised it in some other full of control to the government, you tell me if you agree to fulfill it in its entirety, in its entirety. And this is not a question of identity obsession, but of compliance with legality... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ...in its entirety, in its entirety. And this is not a question of identity obsession, but of compliance with legality. I hope that we will be able to demonstrate that will with facts according to what may be more frameworks of collaboration and the responsibility for which he has so much spoken in his presentation. With regard also to the education system and the Basque, as you have said, you have referred to the alleged failure of the education system by also linking the Basque. First, model D is the one chosen free by families, grows year by year and exceeds 81%. Second. 71% of young people between the ages of 16 and 24 know Basque. It's the triple that 30 years ago. Third. The key international indicator of quality of the education system is the early dropout rate. In Euskadi, I insist, it is 6.5%; the European average is 10%, and in Spain it is 16%. Fourth. For three years more than half of the students and students have chosen to enrol in Basque at the Basque Public University. This percentage is 53 %. It grows year by year, and I'm talking about the Public University. Fifth. Last year the historical record of theses performed in Basque at the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea was reached with 69 theses, 34 of them international. In any case, we are working on a new far-reaching educational pact: Hezkuntza-hitzarmena, which gives a global response and improves the results of the educational model, both in the domain of the two official languages and in academic results. Basque is also a language of communication, therefore not restricted only to the academic sphere, but also to work, the social sphere, the cultural sphere or the field of leisure. This is a challenge that overcomes classrooms and involves individual and social commitment. This morning I put the emphasis on the consensus achieved with the Euskera Act almost 40 years ago and now it is about strengthening. Mrs Gorrotxategi, I have drawn from your speech, or I think it has contradictory contents. On the one hand, I appreciate your positive tone and your willingness to agree. On the other hand, I regret in their criticisms the use of topics such as "cuts in public services and austereicide". I cannot share this appreciation with you and I refer to the evidence. In the last five years the Education Budget has increased from 2,665 million, in 2017, to 2,983 million, forgiveness to 2,987, 2983 forgiveness, in 2021. In the same period of the health budget it has increased from 3,542 million to 4,180 million, and these are objective data and not subjective assessments of cuts. I want to keep the first thing: agreement and collaboration, which is what this society needs. I shall speak about energy later on, but in the following words I will make it even deeper, but I want to remark one thing to you. Eukadin's gas leaks from the hothouse effect. Not just that. This is one of our ten national targets, and we are engaged to lower 30 percent. The object of the people is, therefore, the institution, yes, but also the commitment to the whole company and society. On the other hand, this government prefers public schools. You said he's going to a compact school and he's not going to public school. Sure. But when you're in love with a public school, you know? That's the way it's been recorded in our government program. And with that our model answers the families' choices. You said we were multiple nations. I agree. We must therefore respect the manifold system of education, and I should require a severity when we speak of a compact network. Who are the headlines on the compact network? Aren't there co-operatives in the compact network, for instance? Mr Hernández, you are not here, but I think you are part of the Elkarrekin Group We can, of the same group, despite the fact that your own group has two interventions, two which also seem quite opposed to each other. In any case, I would say to Mr Hernández that I think I have responded this morning to everything he proposed to me this afternoon. Our model is the sustainable human development model and the 2030 Agenda. I've accounted for the state of the 10 country targets. Our priority is essential public services, social public services as far as we are concerned: education, health, social protection. Our model of self-government looks to the future precisely because it is rooted in history. I'll talk about that later, too. And I also remember that the model that is criticized has led us to have the lowest unemployment in the state, the highest per capita income, and one of the highest rates of equality and social balance in Europe. Mrs. Irriart, you've confessed that you've heard a self-critic in the morning when you participated in your share. It's a good thing, because in the name of the EH Collectors, or some EH Collector's rep, he hasn't heard the autocracy I made. However, I understand, Mrs. Irart, the difficulty you have in understanding this project I presented this morning. Why? Because we're developing a project that takes a step forward and takes a step forward. You guys, the progress, the quantum leap. You're often using that "succatiental Falls"... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... Because we're developing a project. You, progress, quantitative leap, you often use that, "sualtative waterfall." And then you plan progress through great quantum leaps, but you don't understand that you must step by step, because these quantum leaps. You jump, yes, but always in the same square yard. You don't go any further. Everything or nothing is your planning, and you're always in nothing. We've offered you a number of opportunities to get out of that square of your feet. I hope, for once, that step, step by step. And it's time. I may be wrong, but I thought the examples you've put into your involvement have not been really to open roads and to build bridges. You've spoken about your partnership and the 10th anniversary of the expression in the Aete, and you've talked about your first point. You've got a perfect choice, lead yourself to society and look at the eyes of the victims. Tell them exactly what a rating the political team you represent in front of the 853 murders that you kill. This would be an important contribution to memory and partnership, the best way to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Aete. And I think it's the only way. I made an open suggestion in the car, which looks into the future in the morning, and then I'll emphasize it. The past, yes, which connects the past and the future. To know the past and the history, it is necessary to build the future. But it's a real past. Hence, for example, we attach so much importance to your historical memory in order to build a future partnership. A partnership and self-portrait. Life and self-control: It's because we were and it will be because we are. I will move on to frameworks that include certain interventions by the parliamentary groups. Euskadi has lost companies, companies in crisis, loss of roots, industrial fabric in retreat. I have not denied the virulence of the crisis and its economic impact, and I am aware that businesses and businesses have been closed during the crisis, especially in the services sector, and especially in hospitality, commerce and tourism. In fact, of the 4,500 aid applications received, 40% correspond to hospitality and 30% to commerce. The process of gradual recovery of normality will enable the full social and economic life to be revived. In fact, tomorrow at the LABI Advisory Council, according to the opinion presented to us, we will take a step forward in this regard, after listening to the recommendations of the Technical Scientific Commission meeting today. And I think it should be stressed that Euskadi is an attractive country. And in the face of certain objections to reality, tell me whether or not it is attractive a country in which in four months the following news is produced: "Laguardia will host the largest Artificial Intelligence Center in Europe". "Talgo and Repsol take a firm step to start the hydrogen train." "Macron supports the Basque company CAF's stake in the French market." "Arcelor will invest 50 million in the Sestao ACB to put it to full production." "Euskadi companies are working on the technological development of electric mobility through the Basque Volt initiative". The Basque company Jai Fait will invest 1 billion in eight years in five hydrogen plants." "The Finnish company IQM, the European leader in quantum computers, is set up in Euskadi". "Viralgen, of the German multinational Bayer, places Euskadi in the gene vanguard." "Repsol transfers the headquarters of the industrial division and the customer division to Euskadi." "Finnish company Flight starts at the Bimep center in Armintza, testing a prototype platform to take advantage of the energy of the waves." "The Basque company Befesa buys the American AZR and becomes a world leader in the steel waste recycling sector." "Faes Farma continues its expansion and buys a firm in Guatemala for 25 million euros." "Euskadi laid the foundations for its new hydrogen industry with 1.3 billion investments." "Google anchors in Euskadi the underwater cable that creates a direct fiber line with New York." This is also the day-to-day life of the Basque economy: investment, expansion, alliances, competitiveness and the generation of wealth and employment. From the government we bet to participate in tractor and pointer companies through the Finkatuz fund. This morning I spoke about the society created Finkatze Kapitala Finkatuz. The fund with EUR 163 million, which we are prepared to extend to 300 in order to help the Basque companies to take root. I think there are competitive advantages of Euskadi not because we say so, too, but because the Basque Institute of Competitiveness Orkestra also says so. High level of qualification in tertiary education, we rank 23 out of 218 regions of Europe. High productivity, above the average in Europe and similar to Germany. Advanced scientific-technological framework that supports business innovation. Base of solid and quality suppliers. Europe's leading position in digitisation. Advanced RIS3 strategy and global reference cluster network. High level of internationalisation, 30 % of regular exporting companies. Professional public administrations supporting balanced social economic development. High level of autonomy, including fiscal autonomy, and with the capacity to develop industrial innovation, education and health policies of its own. The company that generates wealth, the gross domestic product per capita in Euskadi is 39,000 euros, leader in Spain, and 26 in the place of 218 regions in Europe. High quality of life, according to the OECD, Euskadi is ranked in the Top 20 in health and safety. High levels of social inclusion and balance, we are the leader in Spain, and the 30 of 218 regions... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... 20 in health and safety. High levels of social inclusion and balance. We are leader in Spain and 30 of 218 regions in Europe. Euskadi is a competitive country, attractive for investment and economic activity. Digitalisation, innovation have also been mentioned by EH Bildu. We are the community that invests the most in state R & D. This year the increase has been 9 % and the next one and the next one will be at least 6 %. Euskadi, that Euskadi that according to what our approach, Mr Iturgaiz, seems to want to leave Europe, Euskadi has been rated by the European Commission as a pole of European excellence in innovation. Our next goal is to be the first state community to overcome the European average in R & D. Reference, therefore, to the inactivity of the Government for economic recovery. All our business and industry support programmes have been strengthened. Companies are responding and presenting themselves in mass to these programs. There is a need and capacity to resume investments and future projects. The outcome of these programmes is clear. The Basque industry has emerged strongly from the crisis. We re-export as before the pandemic and industrial employment has recovered. And, by the way, Mrs Martínez, in relation to hospitality, trade and tourism, I have accepted that this sector has been particularly hit by restrictions. Restrictions, by the way, similar, if not less, than from other communities. Our support has been constant. We have put in place measures and direct aid for the sector amounting to EUR 121 million. The last measure was approved on Tuesday 7 with an amount of 12.6 million. In the field of energy and the environment. We have passed the Law on Energy Sustainability of Public Administrations, the Law on Environmental Administration and the Law on Conservation of Natural Heritage. And I agree with the need to act urgently. I remember we approved the Climate Emergency Declaration in 2019, when some still caricatured that a government like the Basque Government could approve a climate emergency declaration. We were a pioneer government. We will speed up the Energy Transition and Climate Change Bill, which we will refer to this Parliament. This project will be a key lever to drive energy transition, renewable energy and the fight against climate change. This is a priority. Two of the ten country objectives for this legislature are to increase renewable energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The big cost of energy and electric rate has been mentioned. This subject deserves profound reflection, and, as I mentioned, the State treaty. We're not qualified to change the standard energy market model. We don't have it, but it's a crucial moment to reflect on the model society we want and the sacrifice we want to make. We must face unsolved contradictions in our country; they have been mentioned, Mr. Egibar has mentioned them. And, for reflection, I'll give you two examples. Location of re-trial energy and new photovoltal parks or installations. Are we ready to accept them? Or, transition energy, essentially natural gas. And here we voted, and so have I. And I ask myself. It is not what I ask others, but what I ask myself. Are we prepared to use the natural gas as energy for the transition? Or do we prefer to bring natural gas from distant places, with the cost it costs us, and are we not even ready to examine whether natural gas is in our territory? However, in the sphere of our jurisdictions we are fighting the most extreme poverty. That's what we've shown to people who are in the weakest condition, helping to face the energy bill. On energy poverty. Indeed, the Basque Social Protection System responds to energy poverty in three ways: agreements signed with electricity companies to avoid supply cuts to families who cannot pay bills, a specific budget with social entities, such as the Red Cross, from which more than 1,000 families benefit annually, aid to alleviate energy poverty within the Social Emergency Aids. Thanks to these subsidies, in 2020 a total of 16,000 families received aid for the payment of gas and electricity bills. In this area, Zaldibar's questioning. The ongoing judicial process has been very enlightening. Decisions already taken. The company's managers themselves have assumed responsibility for the crime of reckless homicide and the judge will determine and, if necessary, will do so their involvement in the environmental damage caused. On the other hand, the European Union determined that the Basque Government had acted diligently and carried out the checks provided for in the legal regulations. First, quickly to stifle the fire and stabilize the landfill, ensuring public health. Second, for 15 months, the search for missing persons. Third, stabilize the soil and landfill. Fourth, claim to the owner and responsible company the costs incurred and the environmental damage caused. Fifthly, the requirement to the company for the definitive sealing of the landfill. We have spared neither in time nor in economic resources, nor in material or human resources. And I have to say that I have shared the pain of loss with the direct, direct family members. With those who went along with the disappeared, one of them recovered, another not, who built their families. I regret this tragedy that should never have occurred. And I will continue, if necessary, in direct private communication with the relatives of the deceased. In the employment bloc, precariousness, youth unemployment. Increase in unemployment in Euskadi in August... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ...of dead people. In the employment bloc, precariousness, youth unemployment. "Increase in unemployment in Euskadi in August," said Mr Iturgaiz. It is true that August has not been good in Euskadi, but historically it has always been good in Euskadi, Mr Iturgaiz. Our industrial economic cycle does not correspond to the tourist economic cycle of the State. In any case, in August 2019, before the pandemic, there were 956,000 people contributing to Social Security in Euskadi and in August of this year there are 953,000. We are, as I said this morning, 3,000 contributors to recover at the pre-pandemic level. We have not yet recovered all the lost jobs, but our forecast remains to be recovered next year. The Prefect and the provisionalness have also been mentioned, in a way, and we are working on the table of the social conversation. And we have a long way to improve. Our commitment is to continue to strengthen the inspection of Job, and it is the purpose of seeing in this legislation 28,000 contracts from the 72,000, Osalan, and the Vision of Job in the year. It's a strategy to reduce the salary between women and men and destroy the dissemination of work in order to guarantee the same salary in the same job. And, in any case, it is Euskakia who has the greatest wages: 29.476 euros; that is 21% more than the average of the state. We're above the tide, though this is the capital benefit of the effect. It was mentioned of the unemployment of the young. We've got a specific plan on young people's jobs, with the number of the first job experience of 280,000 young men. Tenemos el Reactívate, dirigdo a 400 jóvenes con una portentunidad, además del First Option. We have reinforced our young friend's program to offer available housing to young people who want to adopt. We encourage them that you have a profession education and a college, and from them they produce the index of work at 84%. And this also may be remarked by the quality of education, or by the success of the system of education. With regard to women, I believe that the agreement signed at the Social Dialogue Bureau last Tuesday, before yesterday, I believe it also reflects the concern and importance we attach to the necessary progress in what also affects not only what the wage gap is, but also to wage discrimination, and they are two different things. But in any case, we have programs like Morrokotudak for women in masculinized sectors. For example, 10% can proceed as well, but it may seem to you little, but only a year ago this 10% move was a chimera. Fortunately, today reality is another, also the fruit of these public policies that have been worked out. The question of temporality, as you know, is also on the table of the Madrid Concertation Forum in Madrid. The Basque Government is acting and we have already set up an observatory to support SMEs and self-employed people to have Osalan's advice in this area. The Labour Health Group, for example, of the Social Dialogue Bureau is going to do a specific work on prevention and information in the forestry sector, which is also worrying the second vice-lehendakari and I about what happened this summer, in which we have seen a particularly tragic recovery, is on our agenda, and we share it with those who are taking a committed role with the agents who occupy their space at the Social Dialogue Bureau and the General Council in Osalan. To increase the equality, according to the underlying conditions of life in the IE, the cost of economic poverty is 21% in Spain and 10% in Basque, the lowest of the state, along with Navarre. In case of the AROPE index, the Spanish rate is 26%; eucaid is almost half-a-half, 14%. Eurostat's data, the global expense of the United States from Euskka, is 8.900 euros, above the average population and yearly, Europe and Spain, which is Europe's (8.400? ') 'tis euro, and Spanish of 6500. The State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services has concluded that the social services of Euskadi are the best in the State. It analyses 25 indicators: recognition of rights, economic relevance and effective coverage. For example, expenditure on social services by population per year, Euskadi 738, Spain 688; expenditure on social services out of the total, Euskadi 13.6%, Spain 9.9%; coverage of minimum income for people on the poverty line, Euskadi 63%, Spain 8%; places for homeless people per 100,000 inhabitants, Euskadi 170, Spain 40. The European Network for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion published this same September the report "Map of severe poverty in Spain". And I literally quote the figures: "During the pandemic between 2019 and 2020 in Euskadi people in severe poverty were reduced by 22,900, during this same period in Spain as a whole were increased by 188,548 people in severe poverty. Here's the data. Is it self-congratulation? No, it's the data, and we don't settle. We are in the process of improving income guarantee income with the aim, among other things, of making pensioner groups and families with their dependent children more beneficial. It has also been mentioned in relation to the impact of the crisis on women, not only in relation to the wage gap, as well as to the elderly in residences and young people, I think I have also mentioned everything relating to these issues. People's Party. Mr. Iturgaiz, you've made mention of waste and spending on high offices. The information on the number of senior officials and their cost is contained in the budget approved by this Parliament, so... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... Information on the number of senior officials and their cost is contained in the budget approved by this Parliament. Therefore, 100% transparency. The total number of senior positions is 248, compared to 231 in the last parliamentary term. There are 17 more people to manage the largest budget in history, to respond to the most serious health, economic and social crisis in recent decades, to manage the new skills transferred to Euskadi, in addition to all the work that we have to do, such as, for example, logically, to answer the huge number of questions that we are asked by parliamentary groups. The additional cost is EUR 1.3 million over a budget of EUR 12.4 billion. You have also mentioned outstanding political responsibilities, such as the case of consultants or the OPE case of Osakidetza. It is the construction companies that are being prosecuted. The Basque Government and administrations are affected. The judicial process has not yet been completed. It is important to remember that the judgment does not prohibit the undertakings concerned from competing in public administrations. The Government will always act within the law. We have been transparent with this Parliament and with justice. We have provided this House, as I have committed, with all the contracts made in recent years with the companies investigated and convicted. We are the first to be interested in the full clarification of these cases. Regarding Osakidetza, I have to say that everything is not worth it. You continue to try to prosecute the political leaders, Jon Darpón and María Jesús Múgica, despite the fact that the investigating judge has decided that you have no responsibility and are free from any suspicion of irregular action. These people have suffered persecution and lynching without trial. I think we all have a political responsibility. And, therefore, also those who, because of the unfounded criticisms against these people, have poured out. I have not heard any self-criticism, either regarding the relevance and effectiveness of parliamentary commissions of inquiry parallel to judicial proceedings. The Government has acted transparently and has taken the lead in the investigation. We have answered, in writing and personally, before this House each and every one of the questions that you have wanted to ask. We have provided justice with all the documents and evidence that we have been asked for. Our attitude remains the same: collaboration and let justice act, respect their decisions and demand that the times be speeded up to clarify all the facts as soon as possible. The Government has taken steps to ensure that such situations do not recur, incorporating the contributions we have received for the entire Osakidetza public job offer process. Another part, the want of government in the field of life, or in the field of the new political State. In this morning's speech I have shared a consideration of the future of life, which will take place in the spring 2024 proposition, and about the future of self-organization, the historical past and the present state of view. Of course, the past in history is not worth just a few things. It must be worth everything. In any case, they are also parliamentary subjects. And, indeed, in the former two legislations, it has a great deal of labour. And the government position continues to act within the limits of our jurisdiction and responsibility. We'll try to build bridges. After all, it's our wish to live, yes, and it's self-governence to establish a solid and settled foundation. Co-existence and self-government, therefore, are or are part of our common good and deserve our common agreement. With regard to self-government, my approach responds to the spirit and principles of the governance agenda. And I think we must also be rigorous in interpreting what we say, depending on what commitment we have made. The commitment signed, he says, self-government is synonymous with greater well-being for the whole citizenry. Self-government, its defence and the demand for the remaining powers are fundamental pillars for tackling the updating of the statutory pact, on the basis of the work carried out by the parliamentary presentation of self-government in the last legislature. These principles reaffirm the commitment to expand and improve the self-government of Euskadi, on the basis of the following commitments. To expand the legislative development of self-government achieved, self-government inwards; to defend self-government achieved, using effectively the existing political, legal and institutional mechanisms; to strengthen and develop the economic and financial self-government of Euskadi, and to work towards the fulfilment of the political and institutional commitments undertaken to complete the self-government recognized with the Statute of Gernika, in accordance with the timetable of possible negotiations, in relation to the transfers requested by the Government of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and its possible agreed updates. This is what paragraph 24 of our government program says. I have put forward a working procedure, in order to move forward on a new statutory pact for the future. I have proposed terms, methods and concepts that have already been put forward in this House. I have stressed the importance of a bilateral system of guarantees, which is the current interpretation of the pre-foral abolition reality. Mr Hernandez said, he is still not present, 1846. No, no, I have said 1839, the Bergara Convention, without prejudice to constitutional unity. And 1876. And yes, "current interpretation of the pre-foral abolition reality." This is reflected in the derogating provision... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ... And yes, "current interpretation of the pre-foral abolition reality" is reflected in the second derogatory provision of the Constitution. What's the matter? I have put forward terms aimed at agreement: mutual recognition, effective bilaterality, mutual guarantee system, political conciliation. I have referred to the existing legal instruments to seek a political solution that responds to the majority demands of Basque society. I referred to the Constitution and the additional provision of the Statute. It is about seeking a flexible, open and effective interpretation with the legal instruments we have. Look, I think we are living a moment of opportunity in which we want to overcome a past of disagreement and focus on the future of this meeting. This word "meeting" is essential. Historical experience, the new time without terrorism and violence, the work done in the paper, the European reality are reasons for the meeting. It is worth reflecting without demonizations or aprioristic enthronements with the will to find points of agreement. Our future as a Basque society depends on it. And to agree is not to claudicate. If conflicts and misunderstandings are to be avoided, the fundamental principle that political relations should regulate is negotiation. But they're going to let me highlight what I think unites us. First, we unite Europe. We know better models as heterogeneous as those offered by the cases of Bavaria, Flanders, Switzerland or Scotland, which allow us to draw suggestive conceptual lessons to try to encourage debate and reflection in their projection towards Basque sociopolitical reality. The confederal model of Switzerland, the model of modern federalism of Bavaria and Germany, the model of legal consultation and agreement between the Scottish and British governments, the model of international recognition of Flanders. The European dimension must help us to modulate objectives and define concepts freed from a rigidity that sometimes makes them useless totemic referents that exhaust themselves. Terms such as "sovereignty" and "co-sovereignty", the true scope of exclusive or shared competences, can only achieve their true meaning in their European projection, surpassing the ever complex Euskadi-Spain binomial. Second question that I think unites us. We're getting a shared diagnosis. Five obvious developments should be stressed: the Statute of Gernika has contributed to the institutionalization of Euskadi and to the well-being of the citizenry. The Statute has not been fully developed and it has not been possible to advance all the potentialities of self-government. It is necessary to update and adapt the Basque self-government. This update must be made from respect for Basque singularity and mutual recognition. And I believe that it is up to us to regain the spirit of a pact and to establish an effective system of bilaterality that will ensure compliance with what has been agreed. It continues to meddle with the verifiable history. The conviction remains that the future of this country must be based on a dual principle that builds or constitutes the core of the democratic procedure: recognition of the capacity for decision-making and commitment to the political pact. I believe that self-government continues to be based on the free disposition of our collective destiny and the will to enter into a pact within Basque society and with the State. And in this context, the new political status should mean a real renewal and strengthening of its agreed nature. It is not just a matter of discussing a list of commitments, but of giving the competences themselves a real decision-making content, of also agreeing their bilateral interpretation in case of conflict and of ensuring compliance with the agreement. This is before the abolition of the courts. There is no pact without a reciprocal system of guarantees, the interpretation and compliance of which is not left to the discretion of one of the parties. Any solution must ultimately be a pact with effective bilaterality, guarantees and conditions of loyalty. Third. I believe that it unites us with the evidence of plurality and the political will to move forward from dialogue, negotiation and agreement. The pact within Basque society and with the State, is a procedure that connects with our best foral tradition and on which we have built our two statutory experiences. On this we have built the two statutory experiences, that of 1936 and that of the Statute of Gernika. Nor are there any missing instruments in the Spanish Constitution, as I said earlier this morning, the 1978 Constitution, capable of facilitating this new pact of coexistence: the first additional provision and the second derogatory provision. And also by virtue of the unique additional provision of the Statute of Gernika, our self-government contains an express reservation of historical rights and an appeal to its possible future updating. That is, what does the legal system, the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy in reference to historical rights contemplate, is something that because it follows a stage prior to 1876 or 1839 we have to disregard when we make permanent reference to what is the compliance of the legal system? Well, that's what the legal system says. We must return to the pactist vocation as a historical right that can be recovered, guarantee of ad extra bilaterality in the Euskadi-State relations and guarantee of ad intra multilaterality between the common institutions, historical territories and municipalities. In short, we find ourselves in the need to move forward in multi-level governance on shared sovereignty. We talked at the conferences of presidents of the Spanish state about the Spanish state being a complex state, it's a composite state. Indeed. That's what we're talking about, that in a composite state, in a complex state, we're talking about multilevel governance over shared sovereignty. It is worth making the effort to deepen what unites us, it is worth exploring together the ability to reach a new pact from mutual recognition and effective bilaterality. It is worth remembering that our historical rights, protected and respected,... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ...the ability to reach a new pact from mutual recognition and effective bilaterality. It is worth recalling that our historic rights, protected and respected, can give them as much as they can reach our capacity to achieve institutional pacts, to make political decisions that are endorsed by citizens and respected. I'm going to finish. I'll finish it as I've begun. We live a moment of hope. We have a chance to restart Euskadi's economic and social impulse. This discussion today is a point of syllogism during the crisis. Probably the disease created by the coronabirus won't go completely away, we'll have to live with this disease or another. We'll have to live with the risk of new potential variants. But it'll be a stage where you can manage health as well as other diseases. This is the scientific projection of the moment, and consequently the basis of hope. We are therefore faced with a turning point and an opportunity to offer Basque society a positive message. A message of pride and collective recognition. A message for action. An exciting message. The task we have left is immense. The time has come to join forces for the economic and social recovery phase of Euskadi. And there's no one left. There's no one left. There is no Government left and no opposition left. We've got limbs for the deal. I have presented them this morning: the negotiation of the next year's Budgets, the handling of the bills in the House, the forthcoming bills, the relationship of possible issues of meeting and agreement between the opposition parliamentary groups and the groups supporting the Government or the Government. We have projects of special relevance to the future of our country: Berpiztu, Euskadi Next, Science, Technology and Innovation Plan, Agenda 2030, demographic challenge. They are open to consultation throughout their follow-up and implementation process. Society has challenges and opportunities that require collaboration and common effort. Opportunities in the three transitions that have also been mentioned, which may have contributed to speeding up the pandemic. We're leaving the pandemic tunnel and we have a great opportunity. With this plenary of general policy a new time is beginning. If we work together, we can take advantage of our chances. I have every confidence in society. In the past, we have known enough indications of the empathy of his ability and the work he's done in the neighbourhood. We have known the ability to overcome difficulties and make threats. And if we've come this far, it's thanks to the value and the effort of society. Now it's time for the neighborhood. It's time for choice. It's time for hope. Let's take advantage of our forces, our forces, our forces to leave pandemy behind, and continue to build a better Euscadi. Thank you. OFFA K: Thank you, Mr. President. We're going over to the answering shift. Myst. Her spokesman Mrs Martínnez has the word. Quiet, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Urkullu, I thank you for publicly recognizing us as the Vox Joint Group. We really appreciate it publicly. And we hope to take note of the rest of those present here. Mr. Urkullu, Vox has come to your calls, as he usually does. We asked for courage, remember? Recognise that this year Vox's anti-democratic cordon has been a political anomaly never seen. Yes, it is true that we came to your calls when you called us. We went to the first one and held a meeting, and I also acknowledge that very cordial, in which I requested your support to try to eliminate this anti-democratic cordon to Vox. We wait three months. But neither showed up nor did we get a glimpse of putting that behind us. Therefore, we recognize that you are art and part of that undemocratic cord. If he really wanted to, if that was his intention, today Vox could defend his postulates anywhere and anywhere in the Basque Country without suffering violence. But it's not like that. He has preferred to treat as democrats those who resist renouncing violence. And he's pointing us at us. You and your party point to us as guilty, like the bad guys and the ones to turn away. I think you're out of focus, Mr. Urkullu. But besides, look, I'm doing Pepito Grillo today. I'm going to be his conscience. Do you remember the Basque law of 2016? Do you remember her? They haven't always been transparent, as you just reported. I'm going to keep refreshing his memory. That law that euskera imposes on the Basque administration. Are you remembering her? That law was appealed by Vox very recently and the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country agrees with us in its illegality. He's remembered now. At least at one of your points, okay? But this has not surprised you, of course, so I know you have not surprised you, because you knew that this law was unconstitutional, you already knew it from the beginning. And why did I tell you? I'll tell you too. Because in 2016, the PP government, with Mariano Rajoy at its head, had to bring them to the Constitutional Court. But, of course, he just did. Because you, very skillfully, agreed with the PP to have Mariano Rajoy deactivate the resource and you, in return, would support with your votes the Budgets of the Government of Spain. I'm on my way, aren't I? There's a game going on between the stakes. We're not going to walk or get into that kind of game. We're not meeting to fight the ball, where the ball is. I don't... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... There's a game in between piles. We're not going to walk or get into that kind of game. We're not meeting to fight the ball, where the ball is. We're not doing it. The ball, Mr Urkullu, is to serve the citizen and not to betray the voters. I told him what Vox's values were: freedom, principles, honesty and word, word with ours and honesty not to reach agreements that we will not fulfill. Do you remember your pact with the PP now? Euskara in exchange for General State Budgets. The word was tradition, therefore, once it obtained its benefit, it voted in favour of the motion of censure against Mariano Rajoy, thus betraying his interlocutor. Principles, Mr Urkullu, Vox does not store, we have denounced and we have won him, for the time being, we have cured that great betrayal. On the other hand, we have just been accused of defending Spain, centrality. It is clear that the Basque Country is in Spain, I think, is a community that is within Spain, we will settle down. However, you speak of Euskadi as a country within Europe. I believe that you are much more decentralised, because you have to recognise that Euskadi is not a country and less within Europe. That is why this debate, Mr Iñigo Urkullu, is the general policy debate, not the national debate, as you would have liked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u20	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mr. Iturbá, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u21	Thank you, Chief. Mr. President. I have started, you have started this afternoon with more humility than what you have done this morning, let me say so, accepting your mistakes and your black holes, in some cases, of your management. And then we've seen that as you move forward in your speech, you've gone up and you've been able to get that from self-completion, which seems to me you didn't like very much. But, of course, we are all aware of the widespread nature of the pandemic and of the difficulties, we do not question it, but how the pandemic is faced is what differentiates one government from another. I hear you this morning and part of the afternoon, Mr Urkullu, we must realize that we are, it seems that Euskadi is a world reference, as in the joke, that the world map begins and ends in Euskadi listening to you. And the truth is that I can't understand how more countries of the globe or other autonomous communities don't follow their guidelines and their projects by creating TKNIKA, Bizi Berri, Berpiztu, which, as you also say, Berpiztu with only once reunited is the new rebirth already. Screen. Because, as I told you before, I don't get out of the astonishment when you draw us a Basque oasis and that it's all sometimes a mirage that oasis. As I explained in my speech, I think there is a lot of marketing, there is a lot of renown and there is bad management in many cases, because the problems are many and are serious in all orders, in all orders in our society. You even dared to say here this morning that in Euskadi or that Euskadi is the autonomous community that has given the most aid to several sectors, and you have cited the hospitality as an example. I think you have lied to the bliss, you have lied to the bliss because the hospitality sector is curious that you should not have heard what you say here today, because your goat, your anger, your criticisms with you and your government are capitalized by the hospitality sector, and it is still capitalized. And they tell us every day from that sector. In this society, Mr Urkullu, there is still a pandemic, a health pandemic, an economic pandemic, by the way, all those industries that you have mentioned here today are private sector. I am glad, like you, that these successes have been achieved, but the private successes of those industries are not attributed to them too. You do what you have to do, you attribute those successes of private initiative, it seems you don't remember the failures of entrepreneurs, those who need help are SMEs, are the autonomous as well, and you don't talk much about them. Tenemos una pandemia laboral y tenemos una pandemia social y una de Liberda preocupante y muy grave, president. Por cyto, I thanked you for those messages in public and private. And in a press conference, I said thank you, and I certainly thanked some of your government departments. I was just amazed that you spoke about the edge, and you said nothing since you said it, maybe you forgot or didn't know what. But, no doubt, I have simply told you, I have commented on that forgetfulness that you have said that you have not quoted it and that I already know that, of course, by private and public, as I have said, I thanked you and thank you bihotz-bihotzez, lehendakari jauna. That is why I also want to tell you that, I think, you have to tread the ground, you have to land and know where we are and what we represent and value their mismanagement in many places. You said a moment ago "Europe unites us". All right. This morning we heard you say that we are the fifth country in some things, the third country in others, the ninth country in others, in the defense of some sectors. We have discovered that in that European classification, of the European Union, the European Union returns to 28. The UK's low with Brexit takes it from Euskadi. We already occupy the 28th, we are already a country, as Mrs Martínez said. And the autonomous regions or communities, which you like to quote, Tirol, Flanders or other communities, or those that do not quote, such as Lapland, Silesia or La Rioja, are not part of this classification, because only 27 and Euskadi, and Euskadi belong. Good. The better we would do, Lehendakari, if when we talked about Europe, we would help Spain to be stronger, because if it goes well to Spain, it will go well to us, it will go well to the Basques. Now, if you want to play partner clubs with neighbouring regions and obviate the reality and Basque membership of the European Union as part of Spain, and if you invent classifications as a country of the European Union, we will continue to err in the European walk. And speaking of Europe... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... to the European Union for being part of Spain, and if you invent classifications as a country of the European Union, we will continue to err in the European walk. And speaking of Europe, we continue to worry about our group, the People's Party-Citizens, like Sánchez, his partner, hiding European funds from him. We continue today – and you tell us this – without knowing any quantities, no awards, no deadlines, or any of that. And I don't know if you're playing hide-and-seek with it, too, like Sanchez. But here we continue to wait for it as waters of May, as waters of May. And so are you. I know you do, too. Look, lehendakari, in his speech this morning he also spoke about the decision of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country on the decision of the stadiums. You and your Government have a problem with justice and with the judges. And everything comes, and let me make you a simile bull, a simile bull that will understand you very well my good friend Mr. Andueza, because you on certain subjects have started to receive in the tree the morlac at gayola door. And the morlaco, on his way out, has put in a bulwark that has sent to the tents with six horns, Mr. Lehendakari, which are the six judicial orders, six varapalos that you, Lehendakari, and your Government have received. And you tell us, "First, respect for decisions." All right. "Second, they make balanced decisions on a scientific basis." And I ask him: "Lehendakari, if we are in this enclosed compound today, here, without windows, small, and we are 100% of the capacity, with deputies, guests, officials, lawyers, how are we going to prevent 60% of the capacity of the stadium from being in a football field in the open?" Look, it's an incongruity and a pitiful double standard. Such criticism of justice is not reasonable and we must set an example and not be incongruous. And I also tell you that the courts question the measures, the measures of a group, according to you, is very scientific, so scientific that it is headed by Mr Jonan Fernández, who perhaps needs to rethink. But I would like to make a point on the subject of respect for the judicial decisions that you said this morning in the rostrum on the decision of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. Look, look at the light. Do you think it's respect for the Euskadi Buru Batzar communiqué of your party... You'll tell me no, it's that that's the party and you're the government. Yeah, but it's his game. Where the PNV... I read it literally. "The Euskadi Buru Batzar regrets the lack of adequacy of the judges to the reality of this country, because they are not from here." What are we, again in the same thing, the ones here, the ones there? This is putting the judges in the spotlight, Mr. lehendakari. This is no respect for judicial decisions, let me say so. Here some of us ask ourselves: What is valid justice? The one that Euskadi Buru Batzar dictates in Sabin Etxea? I know Sabin Etxea is a few meters from the Palace of Justice in Bilbao. But it gives me the impression that you don't want to be neighbors to the Palace of Justice, but you want to be the homeowners of the palace and the homeowners of its components in that Palace of Justice. And you talked about self-government this morning, too. Well, I don't know if we're going to have to put some of us here already because the Carlist Txapela, which you have commented. Because you think you confuse us all with your statements and your postulates and your positions. I, when I look at the House in this matter of self-government, sort of, I know where everyone is. Look, these gentlemen of the Bildu bench say they want a status for independence and sovereignty, very clear. Those of Podemos, today we found out, a republican, federal statute. Mrs. Martínez de Vox, neither status nor status of Gernika, doesn't like anything. Good. Socialists want something with federal court and federal model. Yes, I heard it from Mr. Andueza. We want and defend our Statute of Gernika and our Spanish Constitution. And it comes to your turn, Mr. Urkullu, and your position. I tell you with all affection and don't take it wrong, your position on it reminds me of those Turkish dancers, the Dervish, who turn around and turn around on their own axis, and how many more turn around they don't move at all. But there's a time when those Dervishes also stop, because they have to eat, they have to sleep, they have to do their things. And you, Mr Urkullu, who turns to this matter, with flourishing, with circumloquies, will have to stop at some point and tell us where you are and where you clearly want to be. Because today we have heard again, in a new twist of nut, that now tries to sell us the motorcycle of the political concert. We cannot consider the future, Mr Urkullu, under falsehoods, lehendakari. You have appealed to historical reality. And the truth is, you've presented a historical fiction. Look, when you claim sovereignty prior to 1839 or of those years, I want to remind you that in 1839 Spain was already a nation state, as it is now, and with its own sovereignty. There was then no sovereignty either on the sidelines or above Spain. Secondly, that supposed sovereignty you say resided in each province, without a Basque Country or a Basque Government, without a Basque claim or a common Basque identity. Thirdly, neither political nor economic elites raised anything on the sidelines or outside Spain. There were no Basques, there were vizcains and Spaniards, Alaveses and Spaniards, Gipuzcoans and Spaniards. And I also tell you in this regard that, if you rely on nationalist mythology, there was no outside sovereignty before 1839, nor before 1812. After two centuries of opposition to the Constitution and beyond, the Constitution of 78 incorporated and guaranteed the forality in our fundamental law and the Economic Concert. And, therefore, it is such a departure from reality that it considers concert as imposition. And for the record, he called for the definitive repeal of the 1876 law, which had already been repealed by the Constitution. I read it, I read it, I read it, I read it, I read it, I read it, I read it, I read it, I read it, I read it, I read in the second paragraph: "As long as it may retain any force, the Act of 25 October 1839 is deemed definitively repealed in so far as it may affect the provinces of Álava, Guipúzcoa and Vizcaya". "In the same terms, the Act of 21 July 1876 is definitively repealed." You therefore do not propose a reform of the Statute. What you are proposing is a break in the Spanish Constitution, because you want a political concert that means no more autonomy, but sovereignty, Mr Urkullu. Look, I'm done. In 1839, you know, I ruled in Spain Elizabeth II of Bourbon. Benito Pérez Galdos... [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] ... 1839, you know, ruled in Spain Elizabeth II of Bourbon. Benito Pérez Galdós, the master writer, called it the "sad fates". Do not follow that path, Mr Urkullu, of the sad fates for Euskadi with his erroneous decisions in the status and in his political concert. This year it was our turn, in the middle of the 19th century, you have spoken, you have brought us here to place us in the middle of the 19th century. I don't know if with a little luck next year he's gonna take us to the paleolithic with the outlaws of those days.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u22	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u23	I don't know, we're also a little lucky, but, without a doubt, Mr Urkullu, I think that fiction can't really serve as adventures for the Basque Country, for Basque society, because we're not for adventures.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u24	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u25	Thank you again, Mrs. President. The Lehendakari began the second round of intervention by saying that he wanted to give a positive view of the Government's action and that, however, the intervention of the opposition that does not generate hope for the future. Hombre, I think the goal is not to make people happy today, but to tell them what are our challenges and how we will play in front of these challenges as in the country. To balance and take challenges. Of course, he also says that he has recognized the shadows, what happens is that recognizing the shadows should not consist in making a description of the various sufferings. To describe the various sufferings is worth anyone, of what it is, and what is expected above all of a government when it refers to the various sufferings, as a result of a pandemic, is not so much to describe them, but to consider what has been done wrong or what could have been done better. And, in this sense, there were things that could have been done better. For example, I would also like to make a reference because I will then refer to another issue that he has told us, Ararteko himself is telling us with regard to the pandemic, that resuming face-to-face attention in public administrations and of all kinds is not a matter to be dealt with gradually, but must be adopted urgently. And we also know, and we are told that we are going late, very late in the recovery of face care in Osakidetza and in the case of health, besides that it is being translated into late diagnoses and the worsening of health. Sure, why is all this happening? Why are we late? Why is it so hard for us to normalize things? Well, I do mean here that it is because we actually come from a time of cuts in public services and neglect of public services, and the privatization of public services. In this sense, I was also told that there were a number of contradictions in the things I was saying. I think here's a little bit of a cherry picking trap, to take this that I like that looks good, to hide these other data that look bad. And, of course, that does not offer us a photograph, a true and objective account of how things evolve and how public investments or public policies have been comparatively. Of course, if we go to the question of investment in public services, if we look at years, the previous year for example, it is possible that there has been some rise, but what if we look at the year 2012, for example?, or the years before 2012. And if we take not so much quantities, so loose, abstract and without more, but we link them with GDP data, for surely, surely, and if we analyze them and study them in evolution, for surely photography, the story that comes out is not so flattering, and really the cuts are there. The gass of the heater effect have decreased, and that's a bit ofcherry Picking, you can see. Klaro, if we go to 2008, if we hit the time, then the data is better. But what's happened here since then? A lot of companies have been missing since then, they've disappeared, others have been sterilized. The effect of the gas, if the gass of the effects of the greenhouse have been reduced for several years, has not been in practice for the niceties of the environment, but for other facts. Klaro, if we look at this last year, the pandemia has been and, yes, the manufacturing activity may have diminished and may be, but let's go, for instance, in thischerry picnic process, let's go to what happened during the interval between 2018-2019. This year the emissions have gone up, these fluids, 5%. And what matters is that today 20 million tons are poured into the atmosphere. And that's what we need to care about. And that the nicest of the euscal government can't do that. And you told me that you're doing the public school by default, and that, well, you can really take it as a nasty joke. I've given the data before. [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... In fact, you can take it as a bad joke. I've given the data before. In Europe, 80% is a public school... 80% of the students are in public schools. Euskadin, 50%. This, then, is already shown by the data of something in its own nature, an anomaly. But it's not just that data, and it's not just for resisting the compact schools, or less. Not at all. But yes, the example of the Schools of the Covenant, which we see in what we have, is the consequence, and the consequence, and the thing to censure. I have also given data, and our system is worth what it does, or is produced by it, according to its origin, and according to the sum of a family, the school-regregation. And that's what a democratic government cannot tolerate when we talk about education. However, the opportunity for conversation is repeated, and you have repeated your offer; we shall again confirm it in those terms which I have said before. You're the one who told me you'd marked out a few plots of work for consent after we had our interview. And it is true; it was already so. But on these lines there were challenges, and challenges were made. Then it may be in front of the hinges, that at the time of their title they agree with the hinges, but the point is how we face these challenges. That is the essence and place in which we decide whether or not we are capable of agreeing. For instance, the Full Houses. You're going to give us a chance to negotiate with them, like that, not for instance. In any case, as has been said, we always say our improvidents, and if we have the opportunity to make them countless, and if it serves for the benefit of the majority, the majority, the social majority, we are ready to give them a favorable support. Azkeneko aipamen beats equally Honetan, adosteren Honetan, self-government buruz. Ereferentia egiten diozu, bai XIX. Mendeari. Eta egia da, egia da. If we look at the Constitution, it is true that historical rights are reflected as the basis, the updating of historical rights is recognized in the Constitution. But it is recognized with a very specific objective, and it is possible to develop an autonomous system that could be special, in this case for us, for Euskadi. Well, that's already happened. That has already happened; we are a special autonomous community. And what draws attention, however, to the reference to the nineteenth century, when it comes to self-government, is not so much that reference is made to that element of legal legitimacy contained in the Constitution in reference to the history of the nineteenth century, but rather that the importance of self-government, of new status, or of what needs to be said, the will of citizenship disappears, or is neutralized in some way. The will. That's all we should care about. And that's all we're gonna care about Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita when we talk about self-government too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u27	Thank you, ma'am. I would like to start my reply, even if it seems curious, by giving him the reason for something that the Spokesman of the Mixed-Vox Group, who is not here, said. And it's true that every thing has to be called by its name. Xenophobia must be called xenophobia; homophobia must be called homophobia; macho violence must be called macho killings against women; hatred must be called hatred; Vox must be called ultra-right, and those who preach hate speech must be called responsible for all such violence. And as you have made a reference to the nails of the socialists, which says that we have cut them off, I will tell you that good, that, among other things, we have a rather deep sense of hygiene. And that's more, that there are times when we even paint them, even though that doesn't fit into their masculinity stereotypes. Mr Iturgaiz said that the hospitality industry, the hospitality sector, in addition to having been very punished, has been neglected. Finally, allow me to disagree, because I believe that it has been a sector which has been perfectly attended to, with more than EUR 100 million in aid, and which has had an extraordinary ally in Mr Hurtado's figure. And he has made an appreciation: if it goes well to Spain, it goes well to Euskadi too. And I'm going to give you another appreciation, because that's true, but it's just that when Euskadi goes well in Spain he's going to go well too. This is not just a part; it is a whole. And it is a matter of both governments, both institutions, Spain and Euskadi, collaborating and working for the common good of all. I have seen in common one thing, in all the opposition, and it is that they have all pulled out of the wild – of, in the end – of catastrophe. It is true that some, in the end, have come with that catastrophe and without anything else; without any alternative. And others, as we have been accustomed to in the last year and a half, have come with the wild of us alone, we would do better, because we already know that EH Bildu has always, during the last year and a half, tried to give the impression that he had the secret formula against the pandemic. And the secret formula against the pandemic was basically to bring the opposite to the Basque Government. That was the secret formula for getting out of this pandemic. Now they have another formula to improve the labour market... [[End of tape 53.]] [[LIV. Start of tape]] ... basically consisted in bringing the opposite to the Basque Government. That was the secret formula for getting out of this pandemic. Now they have another formula to improve the labour market, another for pensions, another for education, to end global warming, to change the world, in short, for everyone, and the formula for everything is the same: sovereignty; there is no other formula, the only formula is sovereignty. And I tell you that this is a mistake, it seems to me that this commitment is a mistake, they are committed to giving a catastrophic impression on everything that moves, by questioning everything that is done for unique and exclusively to paste their sovereignist discourse, and it seems to me that this is not to deepen on what really matters to Basque citizenship. Look, I respect you deeply. I understand that both you and you can be sovereignists, you can be nationalists, you can be independentists and you can defend it, because it is perfectly legitimate and very respectable, because for that reason we are in democracy, obviously do not expect us to do it, but what you cannot try to do is that through a reform of the Statute you build a gate to paste yours, because no, that is cheating. I believe that we have reached a very broad point of agreement, and moreover, I believe that there is scope for reaching wider points of agreement on social issues, in the reform of the Statute, in the incorporation of all the social rights that we have won over the past 40 years, in which they are to come, in building the basis for what the future of Euskadi has to be. Why don't we focus on what unites us and you put so much emphasis on what separates us? Why don't we focus all our efforts on building that Euskadi of the future through a reform of the Statute, and you are constantly counting on going to a model you know from the beginning that you are going to divide us to the Basques? We are going to solve the problems instead of creating them, which is what the citizens want us for, to solve the problems, not to create frictions, not to create divisions, not to create, moreover, a debate that I believe is not among Basque citizens at this very moment. Stop imagining a Basque process, because we already know what the result is, like other results we have had with other experiments we have applied here in Euskadi. We are all going to row in the same direction that, I think, is much more proactive and much more constructive. Finally, we, our model, since we have been questioned, are very clear. And that model hinges on two premises: with regard to legality and respect for plurality, and I think that on those two premises we have much more to build than overthrow. I believe that sometimes it is much more important to know who is able to agree and that we cannot or should not do trench policy. I believe that this is something that must be very present in our day-to-day, in that of all the parliamentary groups, in that of all the political groups and parties. Going against each other does not contribute at all to building a cohesive society that conveys that sense of having, everyone, that goal of achieving a society on equal terms. They've put data here on the table around, finally, the sovereignistic feeling, etc., as some put theirs, I'm going to put mine. And there are data, studies of the Euskobarometer and other sociological studies that say that 21% of Basques are in favour of independence, but 41% against, and that there is only 19% of Basque citizenship that feels exclusively Basque. Hey, check it out. And someone will be able to tell me, listen, because if you have it so clear why we do not vote, look, we do not vote on two fundamental issues: first, because a referendum against others would once again divide and go back on the path we have built over the past few years. And, second, because that's out of the law. And we Basque Socialists, never, ever, ever, ever going against something that's out of the law. Mr Egibar, as you have also asked me some questions, I will tell you that, in the end, your speech has seemed to me something like a small amendment to the whole of Mr Lehendakari. I do not know what Mr Ortuzar will think of his words, he said: "We already know what the model of Mr Andueza and the socialists is, that the majority is subject to the minority." No, you are very wrong, that the majority, that the whole of society is subject to what the law says, to what our legal framework says, which, among other things, is our framework of coexistence, and that the majority is subject to respect for the plurality and diversity that is present in this country, in Euskadi. That's what I said. And in that I have full conviction. And from there, of course, we are not going to get out, because it is the basic premise on which this society is built or on which we must build. I would ask you, and the question is very simple, listen, here we can use all the terms, all the word games we want, political status, anyway, what we want, my question to you is clear, it is concrete, and you can answer with a yes or a no. Is the Basque Nationalist Party in favour of independence yes or no? Answer me. And that will clear up a lot of doubts for me. A partir de forget, you said: "This town doesn't have a path." Of course I do. And the beautiful way, I dare say, is: solidarity, unity, respect and diversity. Nice path, nice path, a way to do it together. That's my offer. Finally, I am obviously not the one to tell you that you have to look at the 16th century, the 17th or the 19th, I will only tell you that the Socialist Party, the Basque Socialists will look at the 21st century, we will always look at the 21st century. And that, among other things, thanks to the government agreement that we have signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, this government looks to the future and looks to the point of being building the challenges of the future that are in this 21st century and not in the 19th century. Mrs. Irrie, I made you a direct interpelation. And I'd like to answer as much as I can in this replica. I'd like to see what EH Collect thinks about welcome. Look, the next slippers are going to make a festival to Paroti. And about this homage and this demonstration, a party has been organized, a cymbal and a concert, and an electric car. And maybe someone, and I've already noticed, has made someone laugh. But as for example, this festival will be very near the door of the widows at Ispahan. And I'd like to go to him and ask him what sort of-" [[End of tape 54]] [[Start of tape 55.]] ... It'll be very close. And I'd like to go to him and ask him what a laugh that makes this family, whether it's painful or not. It would be effective to ask them that question. Look, we are not going to tire of reporting that these facts are ethically and morally regrettable. The tributes are a humiliation to the victims. In a healthy society like this, and after ten years of ETA's end, I don't think those things should be allowed. And I repeat, and I repeat, you have a very direct responsibility for that: and I think you must be brave, I think you must be brave and you must put an end to those things. I will, of course, not refuse to have such tributes or receptions made by you in the private sphere of your family, but to make such a manifest public display of homage and glorification to a person, for example, who has generated 40 murders, seems to me to be tremendously grave, tremendously grave. And you keep doing it, and you keep putting your finger on others all the time. And I'm going to go ahead, just in case, you have, at last, the temptation to tell us that we don't condemn other things. It's just that we've always condemned him, we've condemned all the violence, they're called what they're called, they came from where they came from, and they were after who they were. We have always condemned it by the Basque Socialists and we will continue to do so. Always, always, always. In an exercise, many times, of honesty. And we ask them that same honesty, that same courage; that you condemn, that you take off that backpack, that you acknowledge that the damage that was done did no good at all. And probably by the day they do, we will have taken some more important steps to build the Euskadi of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Gather the EH team, Mrs. Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u29	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good afternoon again, too. Mr. President, I told you I was coming and hearing and listening at the beginning of my speech, and hearing and hearing, I don't know, a kind of productive effect is an interview. I think we're going to have to do an ass to decide whether we're going to make the ass or not, when we were young. And I think we'll have to decide what we all understand by dialogue, that we may give that dialogue, and that this conversation really may have fruit or not a path. What I can tell you is that in our part, and in my turn, every moment I have given you, and every time I have come to you, there has been a will to interview. And I'm telling you that. Then where did it break? I don't know where the phone went down, but don't look at me. Like me, they can look at you. Don't look at me. It's between you and me. No, no. (... (RAPHAEL SPEAKING) But, well, I'm telling you not to do that because it wasn't out there, it came to me, but I never knew where that site was or where it was. In any case, we won't be allowed here. What I think is the 21st point of conversation. in this century, when the quarter has passed, and we have our challenges, and I believe that you have said at once in the morning speech that we need another form of government. I don't mean exactly about you, but we need to be a cooperative government, and we have to be all political, social agents, economic agents, sciences, and I believe that we have to take steps to the democratization of our organizations, and it will be important. So let's see if we can get past it. In any case, I'll tell you something, Mr. Urkullu. Look, you sometimes question from a supposed moral superiority of yours, and I will not accept the attitude which I have before any of the human rights; I will not allow you to do so. Because I've always faced every right in my life. And you made me an appeal to see how I look at some of the victims. I look at all the victims the same way. Let's see if all the people in this Parliament can say the same thing, if they can say so. And I have stretched out my hand, still held out my hand, to carry forward a piece of road which I think is still strong, and still to advance the want of the victims, to overcome the privations we have in the burning of all the victims, to give truth, confession, and recovery, to advance before all the offenders, to prevent all rights, against all, against all, against them, to be understood; and so to do the same in the course of penance. So, for that interview, it'll be very important for the interview we could have made. It's very important that you're aware of it. Mr. Bigza, it's not a welcome, it's not a homage. It's not a welcome. It's not a homage. And if we make stews built in lies, we'll always get involved in the same thing. In any case, let it be clear to you too: The Basque People are willing to talk about anything, to see if you can find the same in this parliament. Mr. Urkullu, in your afternoon speech, you have been angry with some suggestions or proposals which we have made to you. Angry, or you tell me by little, you jump in the same place. Well, I don't think so, do I? I think we have very important challenges that we don't even imagine. And we don't have time to face those challenges we don't even imagine. International Energy... [[End of tape 55]] [[Start of tape 56.]] ... even those we do not imagine. And we don't have time to face those challenges we don't even imagine. The International Energy Agency demands a radical reorganization, and you know it. The sixth report of the panel surrounding the climate change of the United Nations limits four years. Okay. Since 1990, in the past 30 years, the floods have come down 11%. So, in the next 30 years, we should lower 89%. And some tell us that we have four years. This leads to two readings: how little we have done, and what sort of hinges we stand before. And we have to challenge these challenges, whether we like it or not, and time is against us, Mr. Urkullu. Then it's not gradually or backward that I tell you, we don't have time. We don't have time. And ours and our children, and the future of our grandchildren is at stake. You have, on the other hand, listed several plans and different projects for today: Survival, rebirth... Well, isn't there a lot? And, as it often seems, with a plan and a name, with a pretty name, everything gets better, but behind these predictions, it's important to be behind those names. And the data announces that the efficiency of your plans is often limited. For example, extraordinary aids from ERTE, $6780,000, cost $60,000. Or, in the sectors of the crisis, to recalculation and recalculation of workers, two million were announced, zero has been used. Or, in the development programs of power and division, only 110,000, and 1070,000 euros have been used. It is therefore, I think, not only to enumerate plans and famous schemes, as you have here done, but to realize the name of these plans and the existence of them. And today you've presented us with another plan, an investment plan, just like it's done for many others. And this is my proclamation that it may be fulfilled, that it may be polite. Because otherwise, well, they're plans that don't have anything left. I believe, in this sense, that we must all begin to change language, instead of talking about plans, and, by default, the evaluation of plans, we must also speak of missions. I asked you, whether you brought us all the material reintegrate you brought on the table today, or that reintgración plal plena, 21. In the century, it was the Basque State and you didn't answer me. But then, with the explanations you have given, I think it's a different movement to change anything, isn't it? Could have an interesting academic argument, as I said this morning, but not much to move. You have spoken of partiality over and over again, of faithful partiality. To me, to tell you the truth, the ideal seems faithful to me. I mean, if I were a state, another state (i.e. ) (... ) faithful (would I do it? ) don't you think so? It seems to me that we never have loyal superiority over Spain. And when parties on the left, or party commissions, or differences, are made to be necessary in time and time government, to desires and caprices. And we've often seen this with a lot of things about the negotiations of the Economic concert and the transfers? I mean mixed-up... in a thousand things. When he has been interested in the state, when he has had to, when he has had a whim, it is all in his opinion. So this difference, this difference, is that difference in a certain degree that I know of rhabura, if we have no guarantees. But in this relation of ours to the State, we have a right to respect what is here decided. That's exactly what we're asking you to do. Funts, a fund of power, a right of deciding, and a distinct relation of the state to which it will be armored, and which will guarantee us security. And you have not answered me about any other thing: You didn't mention the right to decide, you didn't mention it today. And I told you before, didn't I? The polls in this town say 70% of this town... then all the other polls are fatal, but well... 70% would like to have the right to decide, and he'd want to decide on his future. And I think, besides giving an answer to such a multitude of people, the essence of dispute is a right to decide. If the right to decide is denied to this people, the discussion will not be closed, and we will continue this discussion we had for 40 years. And, 40 years later, that's exactly the discussion we have on the table. There's no further discussion. And then what I see is that it won't shut down. And to-day, when you mention this formal reintegration, it has occurred to me that he who denies the right of resolving this right, denies the possibility and right of renewing his historical rights. I'm going to finish, Mrs. President. I just want to say two things. And it is one because I think I would like to make a recollection of the missions I have done here. ), in the presence of this change, and in the presence of these Colasal challenges, we must make a treaty between the several and the several ways, as I have said before, between generation and generation: In the climate of neutrality, in the full employment of quality, in the public care system, in the eucalyptic system of education, and in the national treaty of euccany. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we're a small town. A small town. The people of Axular, or of the arts of those Madi, or of the Hope of Borda, or of Pirrich and bankrupts, or of Chiribiton, is indifferent to me. And the Lourdes Iride, or the Star's, or the Bad news... Or yesterday, at the opening of the Basque University, we saw Pedro Miguel of Housenik, or Ana Bridge of genetist, or Ana Galraga of the dibulga science, or Anprichu, or the Celay or the Blas de Oterea, is it not? We're a small town, but we're strong. [[End of tape 56]] [[Start of tape 57.]] ... The science of the debulgate, or of Anprichus, or of Celay or Blas de Oterera? We're a small town, but we're a very powerful country for all the people I've been talking about. And for men and women who have not spoken of, and whose names and surnames I have not mentioned, and who build this people every day in the Basque Country, and work. And besides, we are a great people for all these women of this great diamonds, who place the Basque Country in the world and inhabit the world. The house said, "Go into the world." I think it's time for the Basque People to be put into the world, that it's a great challenge, the size of which we've never met, and that we have to act. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u31	I don't know what's going on, but you're already competing with me for too many sessions, and you're telling me what the Jest Party is, what he's thinking. And in the end, I don't know if I have to make a party propaganda. But from his birth, Sabinus Arana invented it, and with other patriots, the Eune Jultrido Naciolistus Vasco. And, among other things, it is the effect of removing the forum. Yeah. In 1812, la Pepa, you will have the Constitution, but "sin perjucio de la undad consticial de la monarquía" begins as a matter of fact. And in 1839, these desecrations of the forum and in 1876, are afterwards invented by the Jeltistric Party. The sign of Euskal conflict and the product is the Jest Party. Then came the basis of nationality, the principle and all that, and the claim of a state of euscal origination from the start of the Jedi Party. But we're here now. And the Jéltarian Euz Party presented a program for elections. And if you want to read, there are our principles, in short, the national confession of Euskadi, to acknowledge the national identity of the Basque Country. There is also in the state, but it is fully evaluated by the practice, of course, the respect for multiplicity, and not from the plan, Mr. Aundeza. Inside the interview law, that's a trap. Yeah. If we treat of the respect of plurality, the two identities of the nation ought to be equal, both the identity of the two nations, the Spaniards and the Basques, in the same degree, and not one upon the other, why their dependence is derived from them. Third. And here is the right of deciding with historical rights, of determining, of words. The Jultarian party believes that the historical rights of the Basque Country as an expression of the organization of its auto-generacy are entirely carried out by the right of deciding by freedom and democracy expressed by its citizens. That's what we're proposing. And then the relations between difference, Euskawadi, and the State. What base? Respect for each other, redemption, equality, respect, co-worker and co-ordination, tools to protect the competency and the natural themes. This is what we've been introducing. And then, of course, the rights of all citizens of euscal, whether social or political or political, is to guarantee the rights of language. That's the proposition. If that weren't a little short, the Euca-Falt Party has had a conference about Europe in May. And the Jelt Party of Euz, among other things, has presented three foundations. And, klaro, social Europe, its values are there. But three foundations. One, the confession of the people of Europe, the support of essential rights, the right of the self-determination of nations, liberty, solidarity, and subsidy. That's the first principle, the right to decide, the right to self-determination, the right to Europe. The second principle. It is said to receive a direct light. And this has also been discussed and voted in this legislature. That by the decision of the Institutions which are Representatives, the will of the State, and the State of the Union, may, without doubt, be made by the political communities which express it, have such contrivances as may be demanded of the people of their future time, by the consent of lawful and compacted state. Approved exercise. But the right is not questioned. Exercise is required. And if it weren't a little short afterwards, the mechanism of increasing the conversion of Europe inside, why at this moment we are the sub-State institutions. But if Europe is going to spread on the way to innovation, what's the problem? What's the problem? The conditions required for these new States, the regulations of Copenhagen, which are within Europe, if we are the institutions of the State, where is the question to be state, if the conditions are met? Today you can sub-state institutions and be tomorrow... [[End of tape 57.]] [[beginning of tape 58.]] ... if the question is to be a state, if the conditions are fulfilled? Today you can be the government's sub-election and tomorrow you can be the state. And in Europe many new states have been created since 1920. And four, five nations are left who have truly expressed their will. I'll say more. And this isn't even a new thing. He needs state structure and tools to adapt to the height of globalization, and to win the future as a people. Which demands a new political relationship with the state we now know. And that must be arranged, because at last we want to win the future of all the Basques. Eta, of course, here comes the trap, that yesterday also Mr. Sánchez takes the phrase of Zapatero, and releases that of "We live together, we have to decide together". Ibarretxe replied in the House: "We have to be able to decide to live together." There's the key. Sure, you say no. Of course, for you, a democratic mandate does not arise for you, I do not say that you coincide, nor does a democratic mandate arise from a chamber that can be expressed mostly in the sense of wanting a new relationship, a new status, greater self-government. Don't you need a democratic obligation that forces you to defend yourself before your comrades of the Socialist Party: "Hey, this is what they are proposing. We'll have to make a lace."Is that what you're talking about? Because what it is about is living together, living together, not living together, that we are already living together. Co-existing is to survive political effects and subordination. And if you go to a framework of coexistence from respect for the rights of nations and peoples, you will seek and find a framework of coexistence. That's the truth or our truth. The limits of the political, economic, social and cultural development of our people must be defined and decided by the Basques and Basques. And then, negotiate, negotiate and agree, agree. Not to agree, that consensus is agreement by consent. And to agree implies an obligation on the merits, with the guarantees and obligations, which is what has failed the Statute. Iturgaiz says, "the old ones," and so on, and so on. I will not talk to you about the conformation of what we know today as Spain. I'm going to refer to the outsiders, and I'm going to read him an expression, a dissertation by Jose Antonio Agirre, the lehendakari, who takes up the words of Altzibar, and appears in the book Between Freedom and Revolution, because it seems that this outsiders is an antique, something that these have taken out of the background of history. He says: "Outside means freedom, faculty, sovereignty. Everything that the people put in place by their will, without being forced to submit to what was the will of the people of yesterday, will be out of the question. The essence of fury is not in the history of its existence, but in which it implies freedom, self-determination at all times what the people want and what they want today. Foral is not a certain law, but all those that the people vote subject to their democratic mode." That's the forum for us. And that's what makes the compact too. I'm going to finish. Finally, what I'd like to say is the Jeltt Party is in charge here, funk. We have some concerns, the highest responsibility. First of all, the president is president. But the Jelt Party is still in opposition to certain townships. And if we are in power or opposition, our principal business is to work in this country. And by the hands of the government program, and in this case to the necessary wants which have been produced in the middle of pandemia, to give answers to priority. Thus in power or opposition, always in favor of the people. And we've been in our activities, and we'll be builders, optimistics, progressives and interactions. We'll discuss the opening for each other. We're patriots, we're patriots. Socialists... We're patriots. What we seek to preserve our people, to preserve and strengthen our nature, and to determine our political future. We're Basque. We make Basques. And the support must be preserved and developed in knowledge, and especially in use. We have stability and social justice as a proclamation. And in our roles, we're one of the first. Why? It is natural for a patriotic political project to preserve and defend the people as a whole, but every individual, every Basque, without abandoning anyone. The development of economics, the development of real economy, the production of employments, the equality, as mentioned by the President, the environment, to prevent future generations from endangering the future, and above all responsibility. It's not us or ours, it's not populism, it doesn't matter. We will defend that which can be advanced to the people. This is our goal, the progress, the performance, the performance, and the lasting. I'm going to finish. Some of them were trying to get out of here and some of them... [[End of tape 58.]] [[LIX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and be lasting. I'm going to finish. There are some who seek to establish a disorientation from this point of view, which is why politics is important, and we have the president to avoid political halts, his government, his certainty, his routes, and his decisions. And in the end, it's the time of our country and its people. We must defend all these people, and in three main columns: economic development, social justice, and political sovereignty. Thank you for the work you did for, the president and all of you. And I want to talk about two people you've talked about in 30 seconds, Maria Jesús Múgica, Jon Darpón. Let us see why it is very easy to make a lesson against a person, and of course it is no service to them, but neither does the people. I don't expect a callout or an apology, I don't expect it. What I only ask of you is that we should reflect on the different parliamentary groups, or those who wish to discuss it, how easy it is to harm those people, and, by the way, to harm the people. Then we talk about the challenge of politics. So, it's not just María Jesús Múgica and Jon Darpón, but it's a lot of others, but they have this last minute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at 7:30 p.m.
