ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll put an end to the whole meeting... [[Barres]] Oh, the end; the beginning, forgive me! Before we proceed to the list of subjects, 34 Mr. and Mrs. First point in theme list: "The examination of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, the peasant of each wheat on the conditions of compatibility with the parliamentary Irido. Discipline and final resolution. Do any members of the board want to do it for or against the judgment? Well, we'll simply vote for the resolution of the union committee. Except the members of the legislature relating to the Constitution, we can vote for all the other members of the legislature. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes at the meeting, 41; the votes given, 75; the opponents 75; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u1	So unanimously the judgment has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "First of all, to discuss the Eubertians, to collect EH, Eucharka Socilists, and together with Podemos, as the parlamentary team of the Animals, as the Israelis were prisoners of Juana Ruiz Sánchez. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together the representative of the Podemos Animate, Mr Martínez Izón, is your word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u2	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Lau tanderen artean errordatutako legez besteko bat eztabaidagai daukagu momentu honetan, Juana Ruiz Palestineen laen egiten duen lankidetza-langilearen atxiloketa salatzeko. Juana Ruizek eta Osasun Komiteak 1985etik daramate Palestinian lan Egyptian, Osasun-egoeran laguntzeko. Solidarity and committed work in defence of the health of the Palestinian people and, mainly, of women and boys and girls, and, in addition, work supported by hundreds of Basques and Basques and solidarity organizations of Euskal Herria. Israelek bikide beasts were atxilotu zituen passen den apirilaren 13an. Horren aurretik, elkartearen bolego nagusiak atake bat paratu zuen, Israelgo armadaren partitik. Israel, the State of Israel, accuses Juana Ruiz of belonging to an illegal organization. In addition, a military court, which is not a civil court, rejects the conditional release of the co-operator, our compatriot, from solidarity. Israel uses all of this to attack solidarity with Palestine. In addition, in this case, apart from criminalizing cooperation, solidarity, twinning among peoples, he makes a direct accusation of collaboration with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the brotherly party of our coalition in Palestine, along with others, and it must be denounced that both Israel and the United States and the European Union consider it an illegal organization, when it is a legitimate organization on the part of the Palestinian people. At this point, our entire solidarity with Frontte Populare. From the Basque Parliament, Juana Ruizi, all the institutions outside the government, and all the people who work for the peace, are willing to express our full support by means of this other law. The Government of Spain and the European Union should work and exert much greater pressure on the State of Israel to secure the freedom, without any conditions, of our compatriot. Approved nahi due, noski, tribuna hau eta legez besteko hau, Israelek Palestineren kontra Egypt dituen atakeak errefusatzeko eta sarraski guztiak errefusatzeko. A situation, at present, in the territories occupied by the Zionist entity of Israel, which has occurred through racist demonstrations, at the cry of "let us kill the Arabs!". Attacks on holy places, such as the Mosque Esplanade, encouraged by parties supporting the Netanyahu government. The forced eviction of the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood, a Palestinian neighbourhood that is once again evicted to occupy itself as settlers, an occupation that we again denounce as illegal. And, of course, the bloodiest of all, which are the bombings of the State of Israel on the civilian population and – here is something to denounce – on the buildings of the international media, a situation that has caused more than 200 people dead in Gaza, including children, and a situation of absolute devastation in an area, which, moreover, was already suffering a brutal blockade in what we can call the world's largest prison. Therefore, I take advantage of this forum of privilege and these minutes, to re-denunciate the State of Israel, its apartheid apartheid policies. That is why I say something again that you have heard me say more than once: solidarity is not enough; it is a first step. We must be firm with the State of Israel, and we must move towards a situation in which we cannot normalize relations which cannot be normal with a State which, as a State policy, practises apartheid. It sounds a lot like other moments of the past. And, therefore, we cannot remain silent – and officially, the European institutions – allowing Israel to do all these kinds of atrocities. Por tant, volvemos a reclamar, at this moment Juana Ruiz's freedom of cooperant, and the freedom of the people of Palestine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u3	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u4	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am not going to extend much in – let's say – introductions or in prolegomenes; because, indeed, Mr Martínez has already explained who Juana Ruiz is. And all I want, for starters, is to focus on some of the issues that Juana Ruiz is working on. Indeed, it has been working on the working committees for health, especially in the prevention of health in women and children in that area of the West Bank and Gaza, where it is promoting health prevention, immunizing children in East Jerusalem, which has been systematically refused by the Israeli Government to immunize; it brings birth and prenatal health to women in the West Bank and, above all, it also carries out information and training campaigns on countless health issues and, in particular, those relating to sexual and reproductive health – and I say this; because, indeed, there is also an intergroup in this Parliament in this sense –... In addition, it caters, also free of charge, to a percentage of the very large population of patients in 14 clinics that have distributed throughout the area. Anyway, this whole series of activities I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen... I insist on them, because they are – let's say – hardly considered or likely to be suspected of constituting any crime. As Mr Zatón, who was considered a resident, pointed out for so many years, it is being applied, as is the case with all Palestinians, from the moment of their arrest, by military jurisdiction. This means that there is no valid civil law and that, therefore, this also means that administrative pre-trial detention can be extended during... up to 75 days. Entering into the police or detention situation of Juana, it must be said that, after several telematic appearances, since the 13th day on which she was arrested, on 6 May she appeared before the Israeli military court, in which, after more than 20 days, as I say, of detention, she is accused of belonging to an illegal organization – Mr Martínez Zatón has already mentioned this too – involved in the financing of a terrorist group, through a plot that diverts funds from international cooperation. To support this accusation, Israeli military investigators are perceiving a maraña, in which they claim that Juana has been participating in a network that illegally introduces funds from the Palestinian territories, in order to divert them to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, through fraud and deception to European donors. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we all know that in Euskadi – and in Spain too – we know a lot about international cooperation. Our institutions have always maintained an important commitment to solidarity, and in the last 30 years, there has been a development... There has been extraordinary development in terms of the increase in resources for this purpose and the momentum of all public administrations. I am referring to solidarity and international cooperation, not only at the level of the central administration, also of the autonomous communities, of local corporations and also among civil society, of the promotion of these values of cooperation and international solidarity, through programmes and projects for raising awareness and raising awareness of citizens about global problems, etc., and there are many activities and initiatives, in relation to cooperation and the defence of human rights. And I say this because, for so many years, we have learned many things, and the channelling of official humanitarian action is carried out through very-very rigorous grant procedures, which can allow us to affirm, without fear of error, that they are capable of avoiding any deviation, so that the statements that the Israeli military investigation is holding at this time are not based on any evidentiary basis, and that is more, because they must also lack the minimum indicative basis, from the judicial point of view, even if it is military, because the reality is that Juana, at present, is detained without charge and without any concrete charge. It therefore has no formal charge, and therefore its administrative situation violates international law and constitutes a very serious violation of its fundamental rights. But Israel is also doing other things, which is in violation of international law; in particular, it has failed, inter alia, to comply with article 36 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, which has been in force since March 67, and which obliges the consular office of Spain, in this case, to inform, without delay, of the situation of all its nationals, in the event that they have been arrested, placed in custody or detained, and they will also have to inform, without delay, of their rights; I am referring to the detainees. None of this has occurred in the case of Juana, and not only that, but today, May 20, 2021, we do not know what the situation of Juana Ruiz really is. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, one of the hallmarks of this Parliament is that we have always had a huge and uninterrupted effort to commit ourselves and to promote international cooperation and solidarity and the defence of human rights. And therefore, any violation or questioning of compliance at this level has always been the subject of public denunciation initiatives, such as the one we are dealing with today. I, for my part, have to shift the worry and the unsettled condemnation of the Basque Socialists, for the constant violations, not only in Israel, but in many other places in the world, but in this case in Palestine, human rights violations that occur in multiple, as I say, corners of the planet. And I also have to move the commitment of the Basque Socialists, in order to continue working so that all women and men, wherever they are, can fully enjoy their rights. And, of course, defending human rights also means defending human rights defenders – which is the original initiative we are debating today – who are subjected, obviously and with greater force every day, to increasing levels of persecution and intimidation and violence, as is the case with Juana. So, in fact, four parliamentary groups are bringing here today an initiative for debate, this non-legislative proposal, by urgency. What happens is that the situation always exceeds reality, and while "life is what happens while you have other plans", happens what happens, which, on the other hand, does not surprise, because it is a development of a situation, ladies and gentlemen, which we all know, which is cyclical. In any event, what this Parliament seeks is to condemn this arbitrary and unjustified detention of both the Spanish co-operator and her colleagues and to demand the application of the rules of public international law, international humanitarian law and the safeguarding of human rights. I will conclude, and I think it is fair to say that the position and position of the Basque Socialists have always been clear in this Parliament. I would like to remind you and I would expressly like to name my colleague Mikel Unzalu, whom I give my hug from here, because he has been a representative of human rights for many years and has made clear what the position of the Socialist Group is and it is up to us to insist on it, and what we want to do is, fundamentally, apart from condemning the situation that all Palestinians, and especially Juana, are suffering from apartheid. A solution, ladies and gentlemen, that would go through the recognition of the Palestinian State, the 1967 borders and the shared capital of Jerusalem. Mutual recognition of states is the only solution to end violence, insecurity, instability in the area, and above all, to be able to see a future of respect for human rights, in this case also the rights of all the co-operators working there and, specifically, of Juana. I think it's not little, but neither more nor less. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u6	Good morning, everyone. There's little to add after the two members who have spoken before me have heard what they said. It is clear that today we have come to accuse the attack against the defenders of human rights in Palestine; in this case Juan Ruiz Health, the fellow who works at the Commmitetes. But with him, as was said, we have come to defend the rights of human rights in Palestine every day. He has been under Juana Ruiz for a month, and, as has been well said, has arbitrarily and so many broken rights. And it's more than 35 years ago that this woman lives in Palestine, she works in Palestine and tries to build a better Palestine. We have also to report that the congregation, Health Work Committees, and even the health centre, Juana's health center, has been attacked, and that this work is being attacked. And so we firmly reject this attack against the organization and Juana Ruiz and his colleagues. Juana Ru Ruiz and his colleague make an example of releasing him at once, and also of expressing our entire solidarity. Denunciamos contunentente este ataque contra la organizion Health Work Committes y contra Juana Ruiz y sus compañeros denidos. "Exigimos su inmediata quidción y, por supesto, toda la solidarid de este grapo y este Parlamento conellas." And as we were talking about them and Mrs. Galástegui said, so many things have happened since we came in, among other things, that the UNRWA organization had been the same here in the legislature, and they also accused a criminal campaign. The defenders of the human rights who work in the midst of education, and those who labor in the field of health, [are] the ones who are especially attacked by Israel. And that's not a coincidence either, and we've got to report that as well. And besides, it's been 10 days since the murder of 227 Palestinians, including 64 children, and at least a reporter, who started fighting against Gaza on May 10th. Besides that, 12 people in Israel have been reported to have died. Out of numbers, people, life and the breath of a whole town. At this moment, we look with anxiety and anxiety to Palestine, Gaza, and we wish to use this space to express our solidarity. We believe it is a very convenient time to proclaim the lawful right of the people of Palestine to be free, and to live in peace, and to show once more the continual assault and oppressing of Israel. It's said: We're looking at Palestine, we're looking at Colombia, we're looking at Sahara, we're looking at Kurdistan... And therefore we have contributed to certain mutations which have been founded in the Basque Country, and are invited to participate in this invitation, especially on this Sunday, of those countries which have been mentioned (Palestina, Colonia, Sahara, and Kurdistan.... We call to participate in the mutations called by various motives for life, for peace, and for democracy. Once more, and emphasising what has joined us here, we have joined together to defend the defenders of human rights. Once more, we'll do it every time we have to. And in this case, our solidarity, our protection... and from this legislature we extend the demands of being released at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. President, Chief, congressmans, good morning. I won't be long, will I? For, in the end, those who have spoken before me have well explained the end of this as well as Juana Ruiz, and I make all the words that they have spoken. Juana Ruiz the cooperative arrest and his freedom is the end of all this. The Israelis went into his apartment to arrest Juana, under pretence of being questioned only by her. We have afterwards been able to recognise, as has been said, that Israel was arrested for being a member of an unlawful institution. Health Work Commites, that is the name of the organization Juana is a member of. This, according to Israel, is the work of this unlawful institution: To help improve the condition of Palestine, by giving first and second-rate diagnostics andrapeutic services, and by providing programs based on the community, i.e. to help people with need, to improve the quality of life in those who are under the condition of war. In short, saving lives. That's the only purpose of this organization without the designs of gain. And we say it bluntly. We strongly condemn this arbitrary arrest of co-operator Juana Ruiz, a co-operator who only saves lives. In addition to Juana, Tayseer Abu Sharbak and Saeed Abbad, current and former heads of the NGO's accounting department, were also arrested on 13 April. Always bearing in mind that the detentions took place without charge, in breach of international law, the aim of this non-law proposal is to show our firm condemnation of the arbitrary arrest of Juana Ruiz Sánchez and her two colleagues, Tayseer Abu Sharbak and Saeed Abbad, of the Palestinian health organization Health Work Committees, by the Israeli Government, without any accusation on this humanitarian worker, violating the minimum international standards of respect for civil and political rights. Ez dugu onartzen humanitarian lagoon dabiltzan erakundeen aurka egiten den edozein eraso, éta horregatik, legez besteko proposiamenaren formarekin, Juana Ruiz eta berber kideen askatasuna eskatzen dugu hemendik, babesa eta elkartasuna adieraziz, bai Juanari, huta atxilotutako henerako partisonei éta haien familia ere, éta eskerrak ematen diskiegu Palestineko herritarren osuna hobetzeko egindako lanagatik. As I said, we do not tolerate these attacks against non-profit organizations working in humanitarian aid, not only in Palestine, but in the rest of the world. We would like to express our support for the families and families of Juana Ruiz and his colleagues, and to thank them for the commendable work they are doing to save lives, in this case in Palestine. This law confirms the commitment to human rights and to the international humanitarian law, and thus we wish to express it from our group, as well as those groups which have introduced this initiative. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadus, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, lehendakari, counselor, counselors... As a previous matter, from the People's-Citizens parliamentary group, what we have to do is undoubtedly thank for the work of so many co-workers, so many NGOs and so many organizations like UNRWA, with which we met last week, working in that part of the world in difficult conditions and doing so in areas such as education, health or development cooperation. And in that sense, there's a previous position. Of course, the facts that are being brought up, which brings this parliamentary initiative, show that it is a complicated and worrying situation. We don't like what's going on, what's going on, and we don't like this situation, but we're missing something to say, definitely or decisively, as the initiative does, right? And they have to give it to us by our authorities. You have to give it to us, if there's something we need, you have to give it to us, in the end, to see what diplomatic efforts are being made... We have to give it to our Spanish Embassy in Israel or to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here in Spain or to the High Representative for Foreign Policy of the European Union, Mr Borrell. It has to be given to us, because logically that has to be the first pronouncement we assume, so that we too can pronounce ourselves. We're worried, they're very worrying, two things. You have already said this, very worrying, and we too, as a parliamentary group, are concerned about two concepts that emerge in this situation: military court and prison without charge. Indeed, it is anachronistic; this cannot be kept like this. And, of course, we don't like it. But we have had to submit an amendment to the whole, indeed, because of this lack of information, or because of this analysis prior to the action that our authorities have to do in the area or in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in the European Union. That is why we have made an amendment which says that "in view of the detention situation of the Spanish citizen Juana Ruiz Sánchez and her continued detention without charge, by decision of a military court of Israel", we do what we do is to request, precisely, "the Ministry of European Affairs of Spain and the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the European Union to inform the public – first – of the situation of the Spanish citizen and to take the appropriate measures to clarify the reasons for her detention without charge, her extension in prison, and to require the Israeli authorities to provide a clear explanation of the situation", an issue which has not so far occurred. That is why we need and want that statement and analysis that the diplomatic authorities in Spain or in Europe have to make on this issue. We have seen information in the media, in which legal or diplomatic observers who have followed the case closely claim that due process has not been respected, that the Vienna Convention on Consular Assistance has been breached... Something that Mrs. Gallástegui made clear. Well, that's why, more than ever, a pronouncement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Spain is necessary. To know, and so that we too know whether this is true and all this has been so, and what is the step and with what diplomatic and international strength they can act. In these matters, for our group, what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our embassy in the European Union's area or foreign service has to do and do will be what we assume. It's a delicate matter. It is clear that the lack of information, and that is the fundamental thing, is implausible, first and foremost, to the Israeli authorities. But we believe that, in order to decide on issues affecting the performance of a democratic State, as the initiative does, we must have more information from the diplomatic, consular and external authorities of our country or the European Union. That is a fundamental element of reference, which will serve us to pronounce ourselves definitively. And what we do have to do and what we do is subscribe to the efforts of the European Union, through its complicated and difficult pronouncements at this time, as we are seeing, or through the efforts of the high representative of the European Union, of its predecessors, who have also done so, or of the United Nations, in relation to the serious situation in the area today. And, in this sense, there is the framework of our action, within the framework of what the Spanish Government does in its external diplomatic relations – and, in this case, with Israel – or within the framework of what the European Union and its institutions decide. That is why we have had to submit that amendment in its entirety, in order to obtain that information beforehand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we are debating an initiative that goes beyond our competence. Once again, you want to solve the problems of Venezuela, Cuba, Honduras, Colombia, instead of worrying about our problems, which the Basques are suffering from. Now they bring us the conflict between Israel and Palestine. Don't be mistaken. We're here to talk about the Basque Country. To deal with the affairs of the governments of other countries, we already have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Spain. And for you, too, who so much claim the authority of your powers, of yours, this should be very easy to understand. Well, gentlemen of the government, groups that support the government, this issue is not for them. No! No! The problems facing the Basques every day are the ones they do have to deal with. Do you really believe that the citizens will understand that, in this Parliament, we are talking today about Israel and Palestine? You call for the release of co-operator Juana Ruiz Sánchez, arrested for allegedly diverting European funds to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, recognized as a terrorist organization by the United States, Canada and the European Union. After all, even if its name is overwhelming, as was the Basque National Liberation Movement, it does not cease to be a terrorist organization. I also remind you that, in addition to arresting Juana Ruiz Sánchez, the two accounting officers are also detained and computer equipment has been requisitioned for review. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about an ongoing investigation. It is not surprising for Vox that Bildu supports and joins in this case, but that three other groups, from the Government... and three other parliamentary groups, take the view that the trial, without even having been held, seems to us to be an absolute demeanor. Let the judges talk. It is also curious that Mr Telleria, in the previous plenary session, used the argument that no trial had been held to defend the health adviser. He said textually: "The opposition sentences before the trial." But then, in this House, we were dealing with an issue that falls within our competence. However, they now feel it is legitimate to rule in favour of the release of Juana Ruiz Sánchez before the judicial process is concluded. By the way, Mr. Telleria – who is not here now, but, I'm sure they'll get it to you – your position is as incongruent as it was to qualify Bildu, PP and Vox as the Trio de Colón, for coinciding in her critical position against Mrs. Sagardui. It was a great political lowness, because he knows that even in his best dreams he won't see a picture of Vox with Bildu. On the contrary, the photo of the Quartet of the Cordon, that of his party with Bildu, Podemos and PSOE, is already part of our political landscape. Everyone stands as human rights defenders in this initiative, and they do so alongside Bildu. At its point one comes to claim respect for political rights in Palestine. But they also do it in Nicaragua, in Timor, in Kurdistan, anywhere in the world, less here, in their own home, where they violate, day after day, the democratic rights of Vox, a legal political formation, that is, very far from their postulates. Ladies and gentlemen of the Cordon Quartet, please sweep your house before cleaning up the neighbors' house. Let's take the broom to solve our problems, the real ones, the ones we have the Basques: those of employment, housing, health, safety in our neighborhoods, occupation, the well-being of our elderly, the inclusion in the labour market of our young people, the education of our children... We've got a lot of them. Let's get to work, ladies and gentlemen. And as Napoleon said, if you want a hand to help you, find it at the end of your arm.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u13	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. On the answer shift, somebody... ? Not Martínez. Basque Socialists, no. Forest, EH Collect? No. Eubertarians, no. So... Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the eubertists, EH Collect, Basque Socialists, and together the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos-Nodemos-Bezzer. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 40; votes given, 74; supporters, 68; contrarys; 1, Absences, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u14	So the original text has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Provide the lawal suggestion of the parliamentary teams, hear, act, and accommodate the first care of the public health system to new times in order to accommodate the measures of a reportist group. Discipline and final resolution. On the turn of the proposed team, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u15	Thank you. Before we begin this discussion, our confession and gratitude to all the workers of our first attention for all that they are doing. And, in general, to all the staff of the Osapartics. The initiative we're conducting today is as important as the simple, and presupposes a different way of managing it. In the organizations, with the agents, with the experts, with the practices... it makes us deep down in the work of association. Responsibility. In considering the knowledge of those who are at the first line, and, starting from the daily praxi, it is in the re-view of the necessary structures, when adaptations arise, when the tools are identified, and the future is directed. To place the necessity of the first attention which the Pandemia has placed so openly on the calendar, with those who are principal actors in common, professional health, in concert. But what exactly is it we plan? What we're planning is that we're working together with a reportsman who's gonna be able to accommodate the first attention to new times, work, listen, and work with the staff delegation in the area. In the report mentioned, together with the consequences, identify the differences and agreements that exist in at least three columns, okay? One, the evaluation of the last decades, two of the present situation, and three of the steps which must be taken from now on. And what we're planning is we're doing this job in three months. First attention is the spine, muscle and heart of our health system: The spine, because the entire health system rests on its first care, especially on the view of the patient; for without a backbone, it can hardly be carried through the entire medical system. The heart, because it presupposes closeness, support, emotion, and more, and, without the heart, without the first precaution, our health would cease to beat. And because the muscle, the member, with a weak muscle of first attention, would have great difficulty in reaching very far. But we think it's time to stop saying such pretty words, to stop saying that these first pretty things are all to stop and get wet, to start, to get dirty, to get in the mud... If we don't, and if that's not done, it'll be useless to say that it's the first thing to be attention, that it's the most important thing to do, that it's the way to the health system, and so on, and so on. He won't have any credibility. So why do we need the First Director of Mind? Why don't we do all this if we don't? We could have a nice chance together, when we're in law, from reproach, to shoot and speak, to negotiate, to negotiate, to agree... Because everyone here has a picture of each other, sees a reality, don't they? We, for instance, have our picture with the accounts I shall hereafter mention, we see our wants, but we are ready to discuss all of this, to examine all the photographs, and to make a common photograph among them, always putting the photographs and wants of the first professionals of our attention in the first row, to give priority to their photograph. And what is what we see, or how do we see it? We see the necessity to recover the first concept of attention that has been destroyed in years. We see the need to prepare our first attention. We need to stop reducing and closing services in the sanatorium. You need to increase the planet 10%, but obviously you need to check out the profile we do with professionals. But we think we ought to play bravely, with a future bet, and examine the profiles of building communal attention; social assistants, physiothepeuts, germats, psychologists, podologists, dentists, etc., etc. The first budget of attention is 25%, and the reversing of hospitals to the first precaution, the budget to the budget, the structure jobs that are uncoded in their first attention, to become surface and structured, and to stabilize the workers who are once in their jobs, that is, when an OPE comes out, or when the owner returns to the job, to stabilize the job there. To increase first attentive equipment, assistant nurses, nurses, stewards, etc. So we can open unstoppable attention areas and build our return teams to the hours before pandemia. And if there's a problem with late afternoon hours, we'll have to find alternatives, and we'll have to deal with this problem. We have a lack of pediatrics, and while we form the pediats, we must stake here, even in our first attention, MIRa and... Well, I'm going to dig it up right now. To get the competitions of IR and DIR... Well, what I'm going to say is: As long as we form pediatrics, we have to find alternatives to strengthen the pediatric service. We need to increase the IR Squares of Community and Family and Nurses, but we don't have competition, and that's urgent. That's urgent! What else? And you have to confess your masterpiece... The default and planned communal attention in the first instance. Because it's a lot of talking, it's a lot theoretical, but we've seen what happened so far. The city networks need to be built, social services, sports services, orientation services to strengthen, in order to strengthen the investigation lines in the first detail, to strengthen the attention of the consultants, to give them autonomy to manage their schedule. Between mornings and afternoon walks, trouble must be solved, etc., etc., etc., etc. This is the photo we'd have put on, that discussion, on that desktop. And we are prepared to discuss and negotiate all these things, and others also. As I said, we'd put all these and more on the desktop. But it is true, beyond discussion, that it is necessary to take measures. Urgent, because we're too late. And it is true that the Department of Health has not hitherto set foot in those measures, or some others, to the foundations. Now, there's a chance for the teams that support the government, governments, a nice opportunity to make a different relationship between the legislature and the government, and above all for the workers in the sector to work together. Don't forget that her pandemia has ended her first attention, she's finished it! Don't forget that the workers are tired, desperate, desperate, and without illusions. And in general, we've forgotten the Osapart workers. And this does not end with ending pandemia. We still have this pandemia to finish, but the one behind pandemy will be very hard. It will be very hard, because the health condition of the people has made it worse, the other because we've had half-closed doors, because mental health can't be found at its best. And, professional workers, when you pull your little foot out of this tension situation, it's because it's a lot of people going to fall off alone. Don't forget that if we've moved on so far, it's thanks to health professionals. And that's why the system's been holding out. Don't forget! And they go about it for hours; they know when they go into the consultation, but they don't know when they come out. And, you see, the senior staff, in their first attention, are constantly asking for volunteers. The first attention seems to be a sack that doesn't have a bottom. And we need volunteers for trackers, come on, first attention. We need volunteers to make PCRs, take samples, first attention. We need volunteers for grafting, first attention. But what happens at first sight? There are holes left. Those who remain must do their work and the rest, because they do not represent them, and because there is no personal substitute for them. And they're still working like that, days after days, 12 hours, 14 hours in tension, tired, months. In months! And we're not gonna hand them a hand? And will we not be able, by our first attention, to begin with the health of all? That's today's planning, isn't it? That's all. If we are incapable of doing this at the moment, what is the rank of this legislature?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over the teams who have issued the corrections, the representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadus, Mrs Garrido, the word is yours. Garrido Knörr Again, we have a proposal on our first attention to discuss. It is true that we have discussed this subject several times, and especially in the past years, what the importance of the first attention has been to face this pandemy. And besides, even this long year, some things have become clear to us that we have to correct. We have a certain strategy in the Euskadin, in the force, and in the correction we have made in our proposal, in order to renew this strategy, in order to face the hinges we have, and to give an answer to our needs. This is not the first time we have discussed primary care. There is no doubt that, throughout this long year, this pandemic has revealed many shortcomings, which all health systems can have, and ours in particular, in relation to issues relating to the scope of primary care, which is the gateway to the health system. No one escapes who occupies a key place in the health system, in health care. It is the first level of care to which citizens are directed, at which diagnosis is mostly carried out, the follow-up also of the patients who have been diagnosed, the care for chronic diseases, the care of palliative patients and also all that is the mental health network. Therefore, there are many issues that address primary care and all its teams. I would also like to thank all health professionals and, in this case, as we are discussing primary care, who are paying attention at this level of care. As I said, in Euskadi we have a primary care strategy in place. When we discussed the last parliamentary term in committee and presented ourselves, we had the opportunity to express some shortcomings that we understood to have such a strategy. And in that regard, we, in our amendment tabled, have proposed a revision of that strategy. In this strategy, in Euskadi there are seven strategic lines: revaluing the role and role of primary care; adapting the structures of primary care teams; demographic and epidemiological challenges; optimizing the organization and management of primary care teams; deepening professional development, generational relief, and consolidating a model of pediatric care, among others... I have focused on the most relevant issues. Certainly, as I say, we are all aware of the fundamental role of primary care and that it needs to be strengthened. Many of the questions have been put here on the table, and I will not repeat myself. One of the key issues, and which is always the cause of many of the debates we are having, is the lack of sufficient human resources to provide quality care. And, above all, this is exacerbated at specific times, such as vacation periods or even in specific areas, such as rural areas. In that regard, our amendment is very specific. We believe that, beyond the fact that a speech can be made in the Basque Parliament, it is true that we do not usually... We believe that the channel to attend to and reflect on many aspects or to review aspects, such as that of primary care, is the same as the most suitable one is not the presentation. But, as we are also aware of the situation of primary care, we will not oppose and abstain from the request of the EH Bildu group. But, as I say, for us, the important thing also, at this time, is the revision of that strategy, because it is clear that this strategy has become somewhat obsolete, as I say, to deal with the issues that have now emerged as shortcomings of the system, and also, of course, to deal with the challenges of the future, not only the demographics and epidemiologicals, but also the challenges that we have to address and those that we have to deal with after this year, like all the issues that have been put on the table. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u17	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing on the tour of the teams that don't run, Mistto, Mrs Martínez, yours is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We see ourselves trapped in time, as in the day of the marmot At this point in the film, after years and years promising to present the creation of a paper, it almost sounds like a joke. And it is even more so when it is intended to lay the foundations for the adequacy of our primary care system from politics, in collaboration with the experts, when it should be just the opposite: let us put the experts to work; let us ensure that they lack political affiliation; let us let them do, and then, from politics, let us validate what they believe should be done. Let us support the measures they propose as necessary. But no. As so often happens, we strive to build the house on the roof: modeling from the politics always interested what science believes to be done. Moreover, the ills of our primary care are known to all: increasing care pressure, lack of means, poor professional recognition, extreme difficulties in expanding their portfolio of services, problems in renewing the templates, obstacles to incorporating new roles into our nursing, improved coverage of intra-hospital emergency services... And they are not new; they are known to all. In short, since Vox, we believe that there is no need for papers, but we do not need to review a strategy that does not seem to yield results. What is needed is decision and commitment. What we need are managers who are open to the opinions and considerations of technicians without a party card. And we need political leaders who are willing to do what needs to be done, without stopping to think if that is better or worse for their long political career. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u19	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos Antzel, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u20	Good morning, everyone. It is evident – of course, that is our opinion – that primary care, like our entire public health system, has deficiencies, has deficiencies, many of which, most of which, in reality, were prior to the pandemic; we have been demonstrating this from our group. And it is also true that the pandemic has done what it has done is to sharpen those shortcomings, make them more evident, more visible, and possibly also bring new challenges and issues to change, the product of the new scenario. Among other things, because we think that the pandemic will not suddenly disappear overnight, and there are issues that will continue to affect the health system and public health for some time. And some, surely, will have come to stay. These problems, especially those that existed before the pandemic, some of model and structural, could be called to be solved, starting from that Primary Care Strategy that we knew two years ago, and which, in our opinion – and we said so at the time – came very late, with many shortcomings and lack of concreteness. The Basque Government itself stated, at the time, when it presented the Primary Care Strategy, that it was open to improvement, reformulation, etc. Mr Berraondo, until recently vice-counsel for health, said, when he presented the strategy in this Parliament, that it was a living document, ready to incorporate input from the various actors. Therefore, if, to the pre-pandemic issues that generated criticism or divergence, not only in this Parliament by different parliamentary groups, as may be my own, but also by health professionals, by associations of both patients and professionals... if we add to this the impact that the pandemic has brought on health and the health system itself, it seems clear, in our opinion, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, that new planning is needed or, at least, a reflection on the changes to be made with regard to primary care in Euskadi. The Government could pretend that these deficiencies and deficiencies are only the product of the pandemic, which are therefore only temporary, temporary, and that, once it has passed, they will have disappeared, and therefore, perhaps do nothing, or may recognize that they are there, address them beyond the degree or dimension of them, which each group or which the Basque Government itself is willing to recognize. We are obviously in favour of addressing many of the problems that we have been pointing out, not only ourselves, that we have heard that there are, above all, professionals working in Basque public health, as well as different groups, including patients' groups. In view of all this, this approach that we are doing, we have to say that we believe that Mrs Ubera's proposal to create a paper in this Parliament's Health Committee that can address all the issues relating to primary care is timely. Because it is true that in this Parliament, in the coming months, in the coming years, we are going to talk, we are going to continue to talk, about all these issues. It is true that in this Parliament we have the opportunity to listen, in the Committee on Health, to experts in health care, in primary care, in public health, to the workers themselves in Osakidetza, to the professionals, at the request of the different groups or at their own request, and that we are going to discuss initiatives that we bring in the groups, no doubt. But a paper, like the one proposed by Mrs Ubera, we think that it can allow us not to operate at a stroke of non-law proposition, at a time as delicate as this for health and public health. It can allow us not only to listen to those who have something to contribute, something that is fundamental, but it can also allow us to discuss the differences that we have – and that we have and that we know – outside of the re-affirmation of plenary debates. That is why we have not seen the need to put forward any amendments to this initiative; it seems to us to be an initiative which provides, which is not a combat against the Government, and which, beyond what is then said in the speech, does not, at least the initiative in its text, present a confrontation of models either. What it does do is to allow, if it is approved, Parliament to play a specific role in the debate on what needs to be changed or what needs to be done with regard to primary care at present in Euskadi. Well, what do we think we can talk about and should talk about in that paper? Some of the issues that my group considers important to be addressed and on which we would like to discuss: The service portfolio. The Government has always stated that the basis is not questionable. We agree: it is not questionable, but it is expandable, and that is what we want and should discuss. The adaptation of primary care to socio-economic environments, an important issue for my group; the socio-health coordination, which is so much being talked about at this time, one of the issues that we have seen that this pandemic has had a powerful impact; the impact of privatizations, outsourcings, as they want to call them; professional profiles, what is and what needs to be done by everyone in public health (health care, non-health care...); how we make primary care positions attractive, another very important issue; public-private separation; positions of command of free designation. The model of substitutions we have, the duplication of consultations, the workloads, the necessary places, another very important debate; structural with regard to functional, and linked to this funding. Beyond specific figures, specific funding for primary care and primary care in the different OSIs. The Advisory Council on Primary Care, who should be, who should not be; the points of continued care – we were able to hear recently in the Health Commission itself; here there is an important mess about the points of continued care, which must be addressed already and which was not addressed in that Primary Care Strategy that we have at the moment. The organizational model. The role of primary care within the system and within the OSI, an issue on which our group strongly insisted in the previous legislature; the need for primary care to recover, as we called it, hegemony in a model that has become, in our opinion, excessively hospitable. An analysis on this model that we have heard from the social actors, which is missing, which has not been done, the analysis on the OSI model, which has been implemented for some time: has this integration of the different levels of our public health been achieved, or has not been achieved? There, when it comes to primary care, it is very important to analyze this and the importance of the strategy itself that was presented to us two years ago. When that strategy was presented, Mr Berraondo too – I will refer again to him – was even telling us that, beyond that, more important than the strategy itself, it is how we apply it, how we apply this strategy. All of these issues seem to us to be important and interesting that we could address them in that paper that is being proposed to us, and that we will therefore support. The only amendment that has been tabled – I will, of course, refer to that of the People's Party – asks the government to review the strategy. We logically have no problem with the Government reviewing the strategy, and we are going to listen to what the groups that support the Government say, but it seems to us that we need something more than asking it to review the strategy, because they will surely tell us that they, the Government, are making a continuous effort to review their own strategy. We are therefore going to abstain from this amendment. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Throughout what we have in the legislature, in the health field, there are some issues that we have been talking about quite assiduously – clearly, the epidemiological data, the vaccination process... – but in that same ranking. I am going to be honest with you: it is also not that I have stopped to see how many times we have talked about primary care, because it seems impossible to me really. It is because, in addition to the times when it has gone as an agenda item at some sitting, in addition to questions and requests for documented information, in addition to appearances, the truth is that, if the memory does not fail me, every time we have had a health debate, the question of primary care has on all occasions appeared, accompanied, of course, by the consequent assessments, statements and, of course, proposals from all the parliamentary groups. And I believe that this highlights at least two things: the first is the importance that all parliamentary groups attach to primary care, but also any of us here has on numerous occasions raised our own political vision of how primary care should be addressed and, fundamentally, the challenges posed to us by the pandemic itself. Look, you can say it louder but no clearer. The Socialists believe that primary care is an essential pillar of our health system and one that has contributed most to the fairness and accessibility of the system itself. And it is clear that this pandemic has had important conditions within all health systems, which undoubtedly calls us to strengthen the role and resources of primary health care, which is what we are in, because, as you know, this issue – and, in general, the strengthening of our public health system – is something that Socialists are concerned about and concerned about. And, therefore, it also occupies an important part of the government agreement that we signed last September, putting in black on white concrete measures, which, over the course of these months, have already been concrete in the strategic framework 2021-2024 of the Department of Health itself, as well as with the consequent economic accompaniment of the budgets that we approved in December – well, that we approve the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party – because it is never more important to remember that, in order to take action, this economic accompaniment is missing, something that is often forgotten to some parties, when they vote against budgets that contain, for example, concrete measures to deal with and strengthen primary care. Because it is evident, and no one is hidden from it, that the COVID-19 pandemic has altered the care normality of all health systems, of all, an alteration that has also occurred in the abnormality of the provision of certain services. And to say something else would simply want to deny reality; because, of course, no health system is designed or structured so that its normal or daily dynamics are to face a pandemic. And this made it necessary that, since March last year, efforts be made by different governments, by health professionals and also by citizens themselves, to make decisions and to adapt to those decisions. And, in this Parliament, there has been and has been a timely account of the numerous and diverse actions that have been taken to deal with this new reality, which, as we see and as we always say, is changing; they are known to them: technical committees, protocols, contingency plans, staffing reinforcements, equipment acquisition, training, support for service structures... But in any case, I think this is the important thing. That many things have been done does not mean that there is nothing to be done; I believe that is the most important statement that can be heard when assessing a situation like this. And, in this very Parliament, both from the adviser herself and from the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party groups, they have heard on more than one occasion that there is a commitment to continuous improvement on what we have learned. And, in this commitment to improvement, as reflected in the Government's own agreement, there is an absolutely clear commitment to primary care and to further strengthening it as the closest level of care for citizens. But I think there is something that we must not forget: this is also a legislative objective, that is, it goes beyond the very urgency that the COVID-19 has been able to put to us. And I was telling them that we are on that; we have a clear road map, blacked out in the documents we talked about. But we cannot lose sight of the fact that these measures to be adopted have also been laid down by this Parliament, and that, last 12 November, EH Bildu brought us to debate a motion on measures to deal with the serious situation of primary care, as he said. I find it curious that EH Bildu asks us for a paper to see what needs to be done with primary care, when on November 12th in his motion he told us what we had to do with primary care, without any paper. And the truth is that, on 12 November, this Parliament adopted, without any vote against, the measures that the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group put forward to strengthen primary care, both in relation to the emergencies posed by the pandemic and in general and thinking about the future. It is curious that, as his motion did not come out on November 12, when he did not need any papers to say that it was what had to be done with primary care, he recorded a month later the need for that paper; because, although we see it today, this was recorded in December. And the truth is, we're already acting. For example, we have been strengthening our staff. Osakidetza's primary care will have 196 more professionals this year, since the implementation of the strategy. A new Primary Care Sub-Directorate has been created, precisely to enhance the role of primary care in the OSI as a whole. The diagnostic test portfolio is being expanded and homogenized. We are gradually integrating physiotherapy into primary care, and we are committed to research into primary care, modernization, the opening of new centres and the updating of technological equipment. In addition, there is a commitment to a public health law. But there is also a fact that we cannot forget either, because we have a reinforcement strategy approved in 2019 – which we are implementing – with 35 concrete measures, all of which are under way. And, as you know, this strategy was the result, precisely, of the work and reflection with the agents involved: professionals of the health centers, research units, professional colleges and members of the advisory council, with which there is a constant dialogue in all the actions that we have been implementing and developing, always with the same objective, that it is to strengthen this level of care, absolutely key, because it is essential to adapt to the new realities, in order to enable it to further improve the service to Basque society. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u23	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Osasun Sailak lehen milako stops indartzeko zer egin two age zer egin nahi du aurretik azaldu, esan nahi said, Ubera anderea, ez catazela bat, inola ere, zure gioan plazaratzen dituzun baiztapenekin. Mrs Ubera points out, in the justification of the initiative, that the investiture session witnessed that we are increasingly the voices that we are calling for a change of governance model. I'm going to tell you that your premise is wrong. This governance model has more support, not only for this model, but also for its own. It's very easy; it's a matter of numbers. You will have another model, which is what should be considered as an alternative, but the model of the Basque Government has a clear endorsement, and it is you who do not perceive it. Because, look, last week the European Union, through the European Quality of Government Index, has certified that the Basque Government is the best in the state and the tenth best in Europe. An assessment involving more than 129,000 people, more than 129,000 people! Baina Ubera andrea ez da horretan geratzen: EH Bildu not only believes that the governance model should be modified on this incorrect premise, but also, in this case, wishes to adapt to the new times the primary care model "because the deficiencies of primary care – and I read literally – have worsened; the situation is precarious, and it is about to explode". It's all chaos; it's all a collapse, and it's all going to explode. Why will it be, Mrs Ubera, that I am not surprised by these chaotic and alarmist messages from EH Bildu. Why? Because this is the attitude EH Bildu has shown throughout the pandemic. So that you will then be proud that your model is to offer security, order and alternative. You will know; but if you think this is the best way to get political results, in my opinion, this is not the best way. I have to tell you that your messages about primary care are far from reality; I do not think you should try to manipulate dialectics to confuse citizens or reinforce those who, like you, think the worse. Because this manipulation is only noise; it is empty, and there is no content behind it. You can continue with the baton – there is no problem – for the next three years, which we will endure and continue to work, and the government will continue to work as it has done so far. Now, they're going to exhaust the citizenry. Because what the Department of Health is managing is a very difficult reality, derived from the irruption of the covid in our lives. For that is what he has done, breaking into our lives and completely altering them; although there are those who believe that nothing has changed and that everything must be observed from the same prism. A lot of people go to the primary care network every day. Look, I'm going to give you some data: in a week, in April, 866,680 people were treated in primary care, 160,000 more people, compared to the previous year. And the increase corresponds, basically, to the activity of the center, not to the telephone. 194,000 PCR tests in primary care in the last month. 1,100,000 covid vaccines administered in primary care. They are not precisely data that speak of chaos or explosion; they speak of the strength of a system that is making an extraordinary effort to adapt to this new scenario and respond optimally to the needs of the population. This scenario leaves damage. Of course I will; I won't deny it. It obliges additional efforts, to prioritize, to delay other actions, it exhausts people, but nothing like chaos or explosion. At this time, the Department of Health has consistently supported the structure of the primary care service and the people working in it. Primary care is the fundamental link of our system. It's essential, with or without a pandemic. Osasun-system being beaten dugu, hamarkada hauetan crying bat iszan duena, bai, crying bat duena, personen unan uneko aldaketetara eta beharretara egokittuta, helluru argi batkin: herritarren osasuna eta ongizaza Hobetzea. Every day thousands of people go to the medical centres, try covid, put on the ventilator against the flu, to take care of other diseases... Many others take care of the telephone, to pay attention to this difficult fact that we live in. And this is not a proof of weakness, but of strength. And you have to work on that line of solidity. And here I agree with you both: One is that the virus has ratified the importance of strong primary care in the face of the possible epidemics and pandemics of the future. And here I agree: the Basque Government has always considered it important to have strong, high-quality primary care, and now, with its clear commitment to primary care, it has ratified it. And the second: that, in order to have a strong system, it is essential to have the professionals who work in the day to day, to listen to them, and to put on the table all the views, also that of those who work in the Administration, in the management of the staff and in the distribution of resources. Analysis, contrast, reflection. That's the methodology that Osakidetza and the department have practiced in designing their strategy. And why this strategy, not another one? Because, as I told you, it is the result of a process of long reflection. A reflection both at the level of service organizations in Osakidetza, OSI, as well as scientific associations or other societies such as OSALDE. A work shared and led, today, by the director of Osakidetza, who, as you well know, knows very well the primary care for her professional development. The Department of Health therefore has a strategy. It is presented, explained and in full development, which does not take away so that it can be improved or updated, as in fact happens. A versatile work tool, but with a clear purpose: that Osakidetza, his primary and hospital care, remains a reference, for his services, his quality and for the qualification of his professionals. As far as primary care is concerned, this strategy has several objectives: Its first objective – and already explained by Mrs Sagardui, the adviser – is to boost and strengthen primary care as a level of care that is closer to the citizen, in order to ensure greater accessibility and to avoid inequalities and inequalities in health. Primary care with its own space in the creation of the new subsection of primary care, expanding and homogenizing the portfolio of diagnostic tests that can be requested by primary care medical personnel, plus physiotherapy in primary care, gradually integrating into the Osakidetza portfolio of services. All this is accompanied by an increase in investment for the modernisation of primary care centres and the updating of technological systems, not to mention innovation and the drive for research. As a second objective, the stimulation of the training of the optional and nursing staff, increasing their staffing, to improve health care to the population and to have better systems of alert, control and prevention against new diseases. And strengthening also the administrative areas, and betting on the new functional profiles and their formation. The figure of the primary care pharmacist. And another formula, that of prioritizing MIR training in Pediatrics, and MIR and EIR training in Family and Community Medicine. As a last and third objective, the renovation of the centres and the opening of new centres, in order to improve both the service provided and the working conditions of the staff. And reflecting all this on the budgets, which have been rejected, and which are going to strengthen the first attention: There'll be more 196 professionals, 4% extras for primary attention administrators, 21 million dollars investments, new arrangement measures, and, as I said before, a specific attention management of the First Level, and the restricted bureaucratic tasks, and finally the one that's come to stop: stock of materials to protect oneself from equipment and workers. If all had not been accepted by the EAJ and the Social Socialists from the budgets of 2021, they would have been deprived of these additional resources. So don't come to me today, advocating first attention. Eta azaldutako guztiagatik, ez gaur Bakarrik, azaroko eztabaidan, salilburuari eginiko interpelazioetan, idatzizko weretzunetan esandakoagatik, ez dugu ikusten EH Bilduk eskatzen duen ponntziaren beharrik, ezta PP-Citizens talkek eskatzen duen Osasun Sailak two lehen retreat strategyners birpasa the Egyptian era. We do not see any need for a presentation or a review of the strategy, because the Department of Health has a structured and committed project with citizenship, a project that adapts to the new realities and that has been contrasted with all those people that you, Mrs Ubera, quote in your proposal. I'm afraid it's late, that that path you say you have to start going along has been going on for some time. Because when an issue has not been worked out for each party, or for the government specifically, a paper is proposed, such as that of a recovery programme for Aiaraldea, which had not been specifically planned, and we, together with the Basque Socialists, proposed the paper to work on it in Parliament. But, on public health, the department has a clear model to follow, regardless of the specific agreements that we can reach between the different political groups to improve this model, but not to change it. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing by the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u26	Mrs. Berrojalbuz, I've brought a proposal for our partnership. I've brought a proposal for our partnership. I really feel sorry for you. Is it too much for me to be disappointed in you and, well, I don't know, to say I hate you? But... Yes. Look, we've got a lot to improve, we have a lot to... we have a long way to do it, but to say that you are self-internities and the best, it does not solve the affairs of this country, nor does the first attention. And you know what he does to us? It's a good thing you're out of it. And that's what's happening to this town for years. I'm not denying you have a strategy. Look, you've got a strategy that's in the book and in a document. But in practice, in reality, in the everyday... We have not seen the measures of this strategy. And, by the way, that strategy was born lame, because that strategy didn't agree with first-seeing professionals, and because you didn't tell them about it. Beyond the paper, we need measures, measures! And here is the state of the first unstoppable attention, the state of unbroken attentions, which was first attention, and, by the way, the Director of Numberes said that he was working on a strategy for consent, and so forth. No one knows him, not the first professionals, or the unstoppable attentions, no one has ever received any calls to lead him on. And it's not about saying, it's about doing. Do, do... Even if it hurts, do it. And I'm not gonna say they're not doing anything, but it's an objective fact that the situation is getting worse day after day. And I'll tell you what's going on. Look, in the past year, in the Left, in Bilbon, medical and nursely, the hours between eight o'clock became shorter, and it left until five o'clock in June to September. Now there are no doctors in Biscaia either in the gym and no nurses to hire, so it's proposed to open up until eight o'clock. They're not filled with replacements; there's no professional replacements, and those 196s you're talking about won't be enough to complete their reposition rates. Even in the gym, look what happens. In a gym ambulance, exactly eight doctors work. From June to September, from morning till five o'clock, they will leave only two doctors. Two doctors every day from eight o'clock in the morning until five. In several ambulances, in the gym, how the doctors can't take care of all patients, the nurses are digging, the philtros passing, the doctors who are coming to see the doctor. What else? It's just covid and insertion. By the way, we haven't even been able to do what they've done in other countries to direct intraries to other professionals in the medical professions: pharmacist, podologists, all of them... ? Not here, we haven't been able to handle the organization that works badly. What else? Look, Irreta, Mañaria, Aulturz, Lasart, Andoain, Bilabo, Zugana, Elgobar, Orestia, Eibar. Go and see what happens. The crocodiles are not attended; the means of obtaining a presence of consultation; the domestic service is privatized. And that's our situation. That's the day-to-day situation. We don't have pediatrics. And this is not the effect of panic. Don't get mixed up, it's already coming. Pandemia touched him. And this is the consequence of political decisions. This is not a coincidence, and this is not the result of panic. I repeat: this is the consequence of political decisions! And now it's hard to turn this around. It's hard. And only we have brought a proposition for the work of association, not only parties, but those which are present in the first row. They're doing a lot of work for it, they're doing it! What do we have to do with them? Look, I'll give you an example. In the former legislation, we brought it twice in the education of the grown-ups! , to vote was not allowed at the first time to form a chimpanese reporter around the education of grown-ups. It was accepted the second time because PP changed his mind. The sects that support the government voted against it. Then it was an incredible job. It was a huge piece of work, and the result was good! Good. And he worked with the field operators. And I think it's a distant confession, whether Josean Pastor, or Cristina Macazaga... That we all did a nice job. So we don't understand what the problem is to pursue the work of this kind. What else? And see...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u27	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u28	And I'm done, little One, right away. And what's the worst of all? Well, the health service quality is coming down. He's down! And if he remaineth hitherto, it is by the overcoming of the medical professionals. But that has limits, because it needs resources. And, you see, we could have the most beautiful centers or buildings in the world, the best technology in the world, but people take care of people, and people can't be handled without people. And the health system is going down. And in conclusion, our solidarity and support will be put out tomorrow in defense of the public health system. Now is the time to look up and rebuild our public health system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. The representative of the Basque Populara-Ciudadans must not speak. Miss... Mists, yes? Your word. He mustn't speak. Together, Mr. Podemos, Hernandez? Yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u30	Sí. I am going to intervene, because I believe that, although we have not made an amendment, and although the initiative is from the EH Bildu group, this is a somewhat broader debate than a referendum between the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu on their respective confrontational strategies between them. And because, for my group, primary care is a very important issue, as much as this sounds repetitive and let's all say it. And, basically, for a question. Because I have seen a contradiction that I did not expect, in this case by the PNV, by Mrs Berrojalbiz, when she tells us, I believe that at the end of her speech, she sees no need for a presentation or revision of the Primary Care Strategy. And, at another time in his speech, I did seem to understand that the strategy is under continuous review; that is, it does not see any need for a revision, but the strategy needs to be revised, which is why the amendment by the People's Party seemed to me insufficient. Because you are going to review your strategy, which is great; but, in this Parliament, the interesting thing is that we can review that strategy with the views of the different parliamentary groups and with something that makes possible the presentation, which is with the views of other actors, of professionals, especially of the professionals in Osakidetza, with whom you say, the groups that support the Government, which the Government counts, but which we have also heard from us, even when they came to give us their vision of their own primary care strategy, which is not counting on them. Therefore, we find appreciable contradictions. And, moreover, a practical consequence of this is the continuous state of mobilization in which Osakidetza's professionals and professionals find themselves, not since the pandemic began, but for years, for years! And, as I have said on other occasions, not only the class unions, but also the unions, so to speak, called them professionals, the doctors' union, the nurses' union, etc. And with constant demands, on many matters of public health, but also very concrete ones, on primary care, on the primary care strategy and on what it referred to earlier, which the Government itself was telling us when it brought that strategy, and that, even beyond the strategy itself, the important thing is how it is implemented and how it is being implemented. And, after a tsunami And they refer to budgets. Man, I would tell you one thing: in my parliamentary group, when he negotiated the last budgets with you, that we did not finally reach an agreement, one of the issues we raised was also the economic issue with regard to health. If you want support for budgets in this area and others, work with opposition groups throughout the year, initiatives, proposals... Because, if not, we come to the time of the budgets and this is a market: I put ten here. [[He made a sign with his hand.]] You're happy or you're not. Well, today you stand by, with your vote, an initiative that is not ours, but that could have been perfectly, in which you can address specific issues that then have your budgetary reflection. So, we're going to stay in position. We have said that the initiative seems timely. We're going to vote for it. In the amendment tabled by the People's Party, we are going to abstain. Although I too, if I get to know the speech that arises, above all – not on the part of the Socialist Party – in this case by the Basque Nationalist Party, in which I have not heard many weighty arguments, beyond the confrontation that they can have with the proposing group, I do make an amendment. The result would have been the same. I therefore believe that everything else that has been put forward is simply an excuse to deny this possible presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Socialists? Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I'm starting to get the feeling – the same thing has happened to them, it's happened to you, sometimes – that you know that when you stay to talk to someone, you're always going to end up arguing, and yet you're still staying. And that's something that happens to us many times. And I'm starting to get the feeling that, in these health issues, that happens with EH Bildu. Because, of course, we are – and I'm also going to tell you, Mrs. Ubera –... I believe that, unjustly, we are being asked or given a backpack to the groups we support the Government, because it tells us: "No. It is that you are not going to support this presentation that is absolutely necessary." Says Elkarrekin's representative We may be coercing. I'm not going to coerce anything at all. What I want to ask EH Bildu is what has changed so that on November 12 EH Bildu will bring here a motion with seven points, with the measures that EH Bildu said that we should put in primary care – without any papers; EH Bildu was clear what to do with primary care – that we should vote, not go out; the amendment of the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group is put to the vote – as they usually like, by the way, when the amendments are long; well, this was quite long – is approved without any vote against the House, establishing what we need to do with primary care, and, since EH Bildu's amendment has not come out, less than a month later, it tells us that it is now necessary to make a statement. What's changed? Because he tells us, "What's to be done is what's to be done." For you propose an organ that will do anything but do, because it is an organ to think, to talk, but not to do. It is not that today we are saying: "Primary care is perfectly as it is, and absolutely nothing must be touched." No, no, What we say is that, in primary care, like the rest of public health, there is a commitment to continuous improvement. And on 12 November, I say again, this amendment was adopted by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, without any vote against the House, which sets out what needs to be done in primary care, both with regard to the emergencies posed to us by COVID-19 and with primary care as a legislative objective; that is, beyond thinking about the future. And I say it again, without any vote against this House. So, I don't accept that backpack. It's not my thing or the chaos. It's not my thing or nothing. It is because in this Parliament we have talked about primary care every day, every day! It's just that we've been discussing motions on primary care. And there are agreements of this Parliament on primary care. He said some intervener, in the first round, who usually disagreed with the papers. It's just that the papers aren't resolutive. You say, "We have to do it." A paper doesn't do it. And you know that. A paper will be able to turn a theme around for a long time, and establish... And I am not going to devalue the work of the papers; but it is precisely the opposite of what you have said that needs to be done. And then, we even have to say that that strategy that was adopted here in 2019, which is under constant review, and, moreover, with the sector itself, already sets out many of the points that you raise for the presentation, because it tells us... No, whatever, I think I remember it was from the last few decades. The analysis of recent decades is already reflected in this strategy. I mean, you don't have to do it again. That's already picked up. Then, of course, things must continue to be done. And the commitment we have, from the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group – Mrs Berrojalbiz will explain – as members we support this government is perfectly spelled out in our government agreement. And it has been established in the documents that have developed this government agreement, as can be the strategy set by the department, as are the budgets themselves; I say again, the budgets. It's just that we do. And that's what I want to make clear. Today, with our vote against, we are not saying that nothing should be done; no, quite the contrary: we say that we are doing, that we are committed to it, that we are open to the contributions that are necessary, but that this cannot stop for a single moment. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u33	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ubera, are you sure you don't have any distrust of this EAJ and this government? Are you sure? I will tell you, and by entering into the subject: Government's and Health Department's bet, first attention, light, strong and permanent. A stake and strategy, Mr. Hernandez, changes every day. I don't mean to say that it doesn't have to be changed, but that's what I said. What changes every day, with the professionals, what the Americans say... But what shall we discuss here? We'll let the professionals do that job, right? And they're doing it. That's why we call the "R" of the Popular Party and the "Excellency of the EH Collect." You say that I have arguments of little weight, Mr Hernandez. Look, unless you consider that a strategy set by health professionals and managers, and updated by them, are arguments of little weight, without you opposing my arguments, supposedly of little weight, you will tell me: empty messages, but little argued. I'll go back to the subject and give you some facts. According to the accounts made the day before yesterday, since the beginning, 3,1 million PCR tests, including the antigena, have been made. And the present record is in Basques, 177890 PCR, including antigena. This must be added to hundreds of thousands of people who have passed to get their vaccine against the flu. Consider also all the other demands of the health care of the population, and you will see that the first degree of attention must be a strong service to adapt to the difficult conditions, and give the answer which has been given, that is, to bring all this work forward. I said so, and I repeat, that this effort leaves traces. It has consequences in the best function of the system, but the Department of Health has previously placed resources, and will continue to place them in a near future, to facilitate their mission to thousands of workmen. Mrs Ubera, you are well aware of the strategy to strengthen primary care, which has been developing in Euskadi for some time now. It was presented, as I said in my first speech, in this Parliament on June 19. And you know perfectly well that the Department of Health, the Basque Government, is promoting and implementing concrete measures. I have already told you before, new places for both medical and nursing staff, more investment in health equipment and infrastructure, new organizational measures... And this is self-requirement, not complacency. Facts and steps forward, Mrs. Ubera. The Basque Government firmly believes in primary care. And from the Basque Nationalist Party we will strongly support it, because we firmly believe in its strength and capacity to respond. It does not seem very prudent to attempt to create a false alarm in society, at such a delicate time, that extrapolate your particular cases of "go and find out who", when, according to you, you were all collapsed – and that goes on, of course – in a study of the perception of Basque citizenship on various aspects of the covid, 46% pointed out that the response of the Basque health system was better than in the rest of the communities. From this it could be deduced that you, Mrs Ubera, with whom you consult and make your extrapolations, as much as it is with 2% who said in that survey that everything was worse. Returning to the survey, 74% of Basque citizens think that the Basque Government is having good care with covid patients, and 16%, good. That is, more than 90% good or very good. And the average score he got was 7.6, remarkable. If you're left alone with 5% that you think is bad, I think it's great, but don't come back here and talk on behalf of the citizenry, Mrs Ubera. It is you who really bring to the citizenry the feeling of a public service that looks like a gang of friends, without interest in citizenship, and that, besides false, is absolutely irresponsible. Change of attitude now, that the help of all and all is more necessary than ever. Elkarlana da bidea, éta konfrontazia, jarra hau, ez da beharrezkoa. And, in conclusion, I did not want to finish my speech without transferring my gratitude, my closeness and all the support to the thousands of professionals who work in our health system and who are facing the consequences of the covid, especially those who have to attend, directly and personally, to these and these sick, trying in addition to maintaining the rest of the care activity normally. Thanks also to the management support, and thanks to the adviser who just a week ago received the support of this Parliament to continue her great work with the professionalism and commitment shown. Thank you, chief of the department. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. The original text of the proposition, as well as the EH Collector, is finished; we may vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 42; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u36	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire right of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans-we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; the votes 75; the supporters six; the contrary, 42; the abscesssions, 27; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u37	So it's not accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Elisabet González Rodríguz together by the lawmate of the Podemos-Nodemos, a member of the Anizar Party, with no homeless people to use their rights. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. González, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u38	Good morning, everyone. And thank you, ma'am. At this time of Pandemia, some of the citizens are worried, because they can't air their second house. Others, however, are very worried because they have no home. Some citizens are worried they don't know where to go in the summer. Others, however, have no summer, because they always live in the winter. The pictures of them appear to us to be remote, but if they have your child, they are so close. We live in this terrible vice, we have many citizens in the homeless landscape, not only living on archways or bridges. Or at the entrance to the great banks or purchases, where they spend a good day. These too, here they are. Young people who can't buy houses, families who live in fear of losing their house, who have suffered a shameful home, believe them with their relatives. Euskadi is among the most unequal autonomous communities in the state. By the end of 2019, nearly 340,000 people were at risk of poverty and social exclusion, some 90,000 in extreme poverty, 30% of them, single-maritime households. In what we have been doing since 2021, four people have died on the street: Worse, Fatima, Victor, Yolanda... Capitals like Bilbao have seen their offer overflow. In September of last year, there were 717 people in a situation of sinogarism, and the offer of places was 636; that is, they did not cover all the needs. With regard to housing, there are almost 66,000 applicants for sheltered housing, and two out of every three applicants do not have sufficient financial support to meet this need. And we can't forget that this week we were celebrating the International Day against LGBTIphobia. As different organizations point out, many people end up suffering from sinogarism because they are who they are, because they do not respond to the heterosexual mandate. At the state level, 5% of LGBTI people and 15% of trans people have had to live on the street or in emergency resources. One in three trans people and one in five LGTBI have experienced sinogarism. With these figures, we realize that every time we fail to advance rights and recognize all identities, we are delving into the violence that we are exercising from the institutions against people, just-just against people with whom we must have an unequivocal commitment in their protection and guarantee of rights. We had a picture of sinogarism before the pandemic and a strategy – which, by the way, we already criticized, at the time, for not having clear targets of evaluation indicators, for not having a budget, for leaving the will of the municipalities to join or not – that could hardly be prepared to give effective responses to an emergency such as the pandemic, and this has been demonstrated. Now we have another general picture, much worse if it fits. The data said that it was already on the rise; but, due to the impact of the pandemic, the number of people in street situations, severe residential exclusion, the impact of job loss and what will come, the impact of mental health, already present among us, but more pronounced in people who are at risk of social exclusion. All of this also required accurate photos, what the real situation is, but we didn't find them and we didn't find them because they didn't. So that's why we bring this issue and that's why we consider it urgent to approve this motion, because we see how the living conditions of Basque citizens worsen, because of the gap in inequality that we already see in our streets, because they increase the profile of the population in a situation of sinogarism and because we see how policies are generating the dehumanization of children, victims of border security policies and the criminalization of migration. What is happening in Ceuta, as already happened in Moria, as it happens in the Canary Islands, as it happens in Irun, are structures that encourage childhood, and adolescence, social exclusion, to live on the street and always with the suspicion of a society that distrusts them and them, with messages of hatred that place them as responsible for the increase of insecurity. But what really causes is insecurity in their lives and in the transit of their lives into a full and dignified adult life. On the other hand, it must be recognized that the social shield and the ERTE are mitigating the effects of the social and economic stoppage, but it is necessary to renew the draft social policies for Euskadi. It is necessary to lay the foundations on which to build the pillar of social welfare, which has not had the expected development, and in this regard it is necessary to adopt agreements already. And, from my parliamentary group, we do not want to stand idly by until the new strategy is designed, and less so if it is on the same premises as the previous strategy was put forward, because we are going to find ourselves unable to develop policies that really improve the lives of people, especially those who need us most. The points we point out in our motion are concrete actions, actions that respond with an integral look at the most urgent needs that the pandemic has uncovered and that are the key to protecting the rights of homeless people. Actions, from which Elkarrekin Posso-Izquierda Unita, we believe that it is necessary to show an unequivocal political will to guide the attention of synhogarism from a rights approach, from the fundamental rights that all people should have, and from the immediate actions that the current pandemic situation requires. That is why we see the need for a coordination service. The pandemic has shown that the strategy does not serve the same in all the administrations that voluntarily joined it, and that it is precisely inter-agency and inter-departmental coordination, led by the Basque Government, that can determine the ability to respond quickly and urgently to the rest of the administrations. And as examples of what can't happen, like having to intervene the Ararteko in the case of a family of Ortuella with minors in charge who slept in a car when the confinement. Is it necessary for a figure like Ararteko to intervene in such a case and not for the local government, with a strategy that we have in place, to tackle this violation of such fundamental rights? Or, another example of what cannot happen is what happens to community homes managed by the third sector, where Lanbide only recognizes the GIR to two living units, regardless of the persons living in the property. And Ararteko has also had to speak in this regard. Examples of situations where coordination is necessary, to avoid policies that exclude and to draw up a common road map; because, if not all administrations move towards the same horizon, none will move forward. That's one of the things the pandemic has shown us. In short, a coordination service that exercises leadership with specialized staff and has the capacity to inspect the actions being carried out. Another point is where we ask that we need a commitment to maintaining extraordinary programs, as well as strengthening municipal social services, because we want programs like Lehen Urratsak not to disappear when the covid fund disappears. We have already proposed this in the budget amendments – then it was rejected – but we believe that this Parliament can agree and guide the government's action to consolidate these programmes and ensure their continuity, beyond the state of alarm. And why do we think it is necessary to ratify that commitment? Because, if not, it is forgotten, and so we have seen that, in the covid bill, no mention was made of the subject of synogarism, and it also shows us the fact that these budgets have been designed with temporary programmes, and because it is a guarantee that we should offer to those who have responded, in an incredible way, at the hardest moments of the pandemic. We shared and shared the concern and the proposal made to us by Euskal Herria Bildu in his amendment to strengthen municipal social services. But we insist that they cannot be the only window that meets the needs of social exclusion and our neighbours; there must be a sharing of tasks and responsibilities of all administrations, a collaboration and coordination with the third sector and a guarantee of cross-sectoral approaches in the care of all people in social exclusion. Thirdly, I would like to stress that we need this motion, because we need a comprehensive strategy of attention to effective signage this time, because we do not want to repeat errors in the current strategy. We want binding, landed public policies that are appropriate to the impact of the pandemic, that include specialized attention to the new needs identified, to the new profiles with which social services and the third sector are located, that start from a real assessment of what are the most effective coordination mechanisms, what are the common languages of one system and another, and how they should be understood, in order not to throw down the work that has been done from one area to another. Fourthly, registration is a necessary mechanism for access to basic rights, regulated by law, and of which there is no follow-up or evaluation. The social registration of these people is not implemented or follows common criteria of action in all local administrations. And this is a problem. And we must demand it, and ensure that it is fulfilled. Fifthly, and finally, it is important to approve this motion because we urge them to be taken into account in the vaccination strategy. Why? Because they've forgotten about them and them. It is not only a matter of prioritizing people in situations of sinogarism, but of drawing up strategies for close and effective collaboration with the services that these people use: accommodation, food, street routes, day centres; as well as all those involved: health, housing, social services, the entities of the third sector that work directly with this population. And there should be a flexible system that allows several easy-to-reach opportunities to receive the vaccine. In conclusion, I must tell you, regarding the negotiations, that I have tried... We have reached an agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu, and with the rest it could not be, despite having offered to dissect the agreement by points, that I understood that there were many points and that in some we could agree, and in others not. It couldn't have been. The points of this motion do not want to close the door to continue building medium- and long-term strategies, and to do so from the learning of the pandemic. While most of our proposals address more urgent needs, because it is necessary, the dimension of sinogarism in Euskadi is based on the most visible face, the people of the street, but obviating the infra-holidays, the gender perspective, which increases the number of hidden sinogarism, and that only during the pandemic has become visible. I want to end with an idea from Barcelona City Council's expert in social public policy planning and adviser, Albert Sales, who appeared yesterday in Parliament's committee, on account of the covid law, and who about the synogarism and the covid crisis said: "Nothing should be like before. That, without a radical shift in housing and income guarantee policies in the coming months, social services and other entities are going to overflow trying to stop a hemorrhage with tirites." And this motion has a preventive vocation, and therefore I invite you all to be able to address the issue as it deserves and not to make it more difficult for us to deal with such a painful issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u39	Thank you, Mrs. González. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Miss Mist, your word is yours, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. What we have been saying since Vox is that both the homeless and the homeless have rights, but they also have obligations. The difference between you and us, gentlemen of the left, is that while you focus only on rights, in Vox we also remind you that there are obligations. And this point is not a ballad. Rights don't fall from heaven. We have to fight to get them, but also to keep them. A right implies responsibility; it implies obligations which, if they are not fulfilled, lead to the birth of injustice, since the principle of distributive justice is broken. The middle classes, to have rights, we must fulfill hundreds and hundreds of obligations; many others, no. Most Basques sacrifice our whole lives to pay for our home, for no one gives it away; and that is a daily effort. We give you reason in a matter about homeless people: you can't generalize. The casuistic is plural, and any attempt to make blunt statements is usually a mistake. We can agree – indeed, we are – that the situation in Spain and our autonomy is particularly delicate. We've seen the middle class retreat to levels of real poverty. We all remember the eviction of the owner of El Escarmiento. But coming to this House believing that rights are a divine gift, it only abounds in the peculiarity of the left, which has gone from talking about the material conditions of society to moving to defending universal rights, regardless of the former. His plan of government is to systematically slaughter the middle classes, to equal, always below, everyone in a poverty that makes us dependent on you and your crumbs. In Vox we say no to their delusional plans, to those dreams that gradually direct us to ruin. We propose a shock plan to rescue the middle classes, the working classes that have been ruined and displaced towards extreme poverty. And we believe that our job, that of this House, must be to rescue them, to restore their wealth; and that can only be achieved by reactivating the economy, creating jobs, lowering taxes and, of course, helping those who have lost their jobs. Just so we're clear. We are not going to walk in the branches: let us help all people who need it; but, of course, the Spaniards first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u41	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning again. We have a proposition concerning the situation of persons who have no houses, and their condition has been peculiarly hardened by the influence of the patron. The discussion is necessary, but we have to consider that the Euko MUDM also has a strategy about these people, and we think it the most important thing to do is to do the evaluation or evaluation of them, and then to make a new strategy and to run it in the legislature. Undoubtedly, the situation of the homeless is a delicate situation, aggravated by the pandemic and the health crisis we are suffering. On this original initiative of the Podemos Group, this motion, there are two compromise amendments. One in which we have participated with the groups supporting the Government and, therefore, is the position I am going to defend. I also thank Mr Diez and Mrs Sánchez for their willingness to agree on two very similar texts. And in that sense, it has finally been possible to reach an agreement, by a fairly shared vision on the essential points on this issue. With regard to the compromise amendment signed by the Podemos Group and the proposer group and EH Bildu, we will not be in favour; because, obviously, we have our compromise text on the original proposal, which we believe is the right one. As I said, homeless people are in a situation of special structural vulnerability, but it is true that the situation of these people has also been aggravated by the pandemic. And in that sense, I believe that these circumstances must also be taken into account. They are people who mainly have housing needs, and the goal has to be their inclusion, from our point of view, and their social and labour integration. For this reason, I also believe that, at first, these people must be given the attention they deserve and cover the most imminent needs they may have, such as housing needs, food needs, but then it is true that we understand that these people must be given training, the right training, in order to achieve their integration. As I said, we have in place a Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons, for the years 2018-2021, and it emphasizes housing, the prevention of residential exclusion and early intervention with different programs. Attention, as I have pointed out, is focused on access to housing, which is the common point presented by all these people. It has a preventive approach and a multidimensional character, as it could not be otherwise. In view of the fact that we are in the year that this strategy will come to an end, we have considered it appropriate to amend this initiative by proposing an analysis of these people, of the situation of these people, but to evaluate this strategy when it obviously corresponds, and to draw up a new strategy, for the Government to draw up a new strategy, taking into account the conclusions of that evaluation and of that analysis. These are the points on which it has been agreed, the terms on which the compromise amendment has been agreed. And in that sense, it is the text, obviously, that we are going to support, which we have subscribed to. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u43	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. And Congressmen, good day to all. Now I read an article about homeless people's situation. We often say that we speak of an invisible reality, when we talk of homeless things. Usually, when something happens, it becomes invisible, as has happened in the past few months, when someone dies in the street, and at least four of them have been killed in the street for a short time. Or when the images that break through us come out into the light. For instance, Bilbon, under a bridge, is a camper's shop and in front of it a little boy's chair. But iceberg We're seeing families at homeless services, and more and more young people are taking care of the services. There are many young immigrants in the street, not only Cétan, but here. Women without houses are there too, but very secretly. 15 percent of people without homes, and five more points than in 2005, and many of them are victims of machista violence. And many of them [are] strangers who [were] in the houses. There's a great deal going on in the street about dependencies and mental health problems. And, as always, solitude is one of the principal elements of common life. Beyond the imagination, the fact that Joseba, a member of the other two platform, was saying in this conversation, is going very fast and we're slow and it's hard to give an appropriate answer. Horregatik, ematen ditugun weretzunen bueltan was inportantee da, nire ustez, iruditegiez haratago joatea. I think it is important that we also go beyond the imaginary or want to feed those imaginary when we talk about the answers that we offer to these vital experiences that are so extreme. And listening to the counselor in the interpellation that motivates this motion, I think she didn't. Asked by the response that has been able to articulate so that homeless people can realize their rights, especially in this pandemic era, she tried to feed a coordinated, territorially balanced and effective response story, sufficient, satisfactory, which I believe has little to do with what has happened, and I think it is not absolutable, from positions decided and committed to the eradication of sinogarism. With this I do not mean that no answers have been given, because they were given, especially in the first wave, with the articulation of programs such as Aterpea or, later, in the decontainment, with Lehen Urratsak. These are programs that, of course, must be valued, and we value them. The effort decided by municipalities such as Errenteria, which, given the limitations of space, have created new spaces, enabled new spaces and put in place new services to meet a growing and changing demand, must be highlighted. Or not to be told that I shoot home, also with initiatives that have recently been launched – or announced – in the City Hall of Donostia, to offer meals and dinners to homeless people, in collaboration with bars or restaurants. Or those activated by groups of neighbors and neighbors such as those of the Old Donostiara Party, who have been offering dinners for five months to people on the street who do not have room in the hostels, because they do not have enough places; not because they have rejected them, but because they do not have enough places. But we've suffered four waves. We have continued to pull from those first responses launched, articulating punctual responses – some very interesting but punctual – but demand continues to grow, and there is no response, and less sufficient and coordinated. And the social partners with whom Councilwoman Artolazabal invited us to speak also warn us of this, of the lack of places, of the need to coordinate responses, to take action, to articulate new services... They also point out that the answer does not have to come from social services alone, which is a problem that goes beyond. The chief physician said in his interference some political decisions have left people out, and I agree with that. I add, that certain political decisions have increased the raw conditions of their lives, and have hardened them. She said, "We warned them, but they did not listen to us," said Councilwoman Artolazabal. Baina kontua da erabaki horietako batzuk Jaurlaritza honek hartu dituela, Eta, beste batzuk Etxerik Gabeko Estraterekin atxikita daden udalek hartu dituztela. And we also warned, and neither did they listen to us. Bigarren olatuaren batan ezarri ziren euste-neurri zorrotzak indarrean sartzean, lehen olatuan gertatu ez bezala, aterpeak bezalako dispositiboak ez ziren berriz ireki. Eta hori erabaki politicako bat yes, etxerik gabeko personsonak kalean utzi zituena. As it is to say that it is not necessary to activate these resources because being asleep or not walking is enough, as the Mayor of Bilbao said. Or how it is to order the eviction of a house occupied by homeless people, as happened with the eviction of Hell in Donostia. Both decisions made by municipalities adhered to the Homelessness Strategy. This week, during this legislature, social operators, including SOS racialism, testified that 84% of the young immigrants in a state of "cale" had had problems with the police. This is also due to a political decision which has an extraordinary influence on the conditions of the conditions of people living in the streets. It is important not to deceive ourselves: there are more people in the street than ever, needs rise, and, as I have said, reality is going very fast, and we are very slow. 2018an, Etxerik Gabekoen Euskal Strategy onartu zen, eta kalean zeuden personsonen kopurua % 20 murriztea zuen helburu, besteak beast. Baina bone beastlako ereality erakusten due datuek. The strategy does not seem to have been effective, nor capable, nor can it be eradicated, nor even alleviated this social problem, with which it seems common sense that, in addition to evaluating, it should be repaired. And a report made by the SIS in 2019 pointed out that, six years after the rights contained in the Social Services Portfolio Decree came into force and twelve years after the adoption of the law, in the field of social services for inclusion, some important difficulties have been highlighted, including the lack of a common model of intervention, the imbalance in the territorial deployment of resources, economic restrictions, difficulties in limiting the functions between the different levels of care, the absence of stable formulas of coordination and co-management, and the lack of coordination of the system, of leadership in the articulation of the system. And these shortcomings and weaknesses have become evident and exacerbated, above all, when it comes to caring for homeless people at this time of the pandemic. They have been seen, for example, when there has been a lack of places, because of the limitation of the places in the centers or when new forms of intervention have to be sought for the new profiles, because more and more people are no longer transiting, but decide to stay for long periods in a municipality; or when situations of helplessness or danger linked to mental illness or mental disability occur, which must be treated in coordination with the health area and which are unsustainable for social services. In front of all this, as a member of a party fully engaged with the end of the phenomenon of homeless and personal life related to it, I believe we are indispensable to open a space of reflection between the institutions, which will have a clear prevention and co-ordinate strategy, to end a policy with the appearance of homelessness, socially balanced and socially effective among the countries, in order to reflect and discuss together. We must be able to make a stronger bet for the disappearance of homelessness, to make this intention a fact to leave no one behind. And that's all there is to it. This is the way we made our corrections, our efforts to reflect on each other and to make our decisions together in this effort to create that space. And above all, if you'd been able to account for some of them in this matter, some of us and others, but we'd all have responsibilities and cares, some in the councils, others in order to make up our minds from that common, and from what we've learned, and to make up a qualitative leap from what we've been living. So we planned that the strategy, the strategy of the Gabean houses, must already be different elements: that it cannot be voluntary, that the position of co-ordination must be clearly guaranteed, and that it must be financed enough; but beyond this, that the news of the strategic plan of our social services must also be present at the point of the problem, and that certain elements which we marked around it ought to be the default, including the regulating of all that service to these homeless persons in their wallets. In this sense, and in conversation, we placed our proposition in return to these spaces of association. The agreement was not possible... But I think, beyond the pictures, we are not so far away in some senses. The point is to know how much we're willing to bet, how strong we're going to give that bet, and how far we're taking it from us. For us, therefore, the medium signed, signed by the groups that support the government, and signed by the popular party, is short in this sense, because we have a course, we have some lessons, and we are obliged to learn and direct from them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u46	Yes, thank you. Thank you very much, President. We have been suffering the effects of the VOCID-19 pandemic for more than a year, and we are aware that the effects of it have been suffered by all citizens; but we are also aware of what that can mean for homeless people. Since the end of the previous legislature, since 2018, we have had the Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons 2018-2021. And it is important to take measures that effectively serve to reduce sinogarism, and must necessarily work on situations that may have occurred. The Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons 2018-2021 is, and has been, an appropriate tool to improve the system of care for homeless people, with a broad approach, and not only from social services, but also refers to housing, contributing to the dual path of care and prevention, and based on person- and housing-centred planning, in order to reduce the number of homeless people. On 30 April the Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, Beatriz Artolazabal, pointed out that she was an integral strategy, which addresses various problems affecting people living in residential exclusion, aimed at improving the quality of services provided in temporary day and night accommodation, as well as intervention in an open environment. And it ensures an adequate development of the portfolio and service map. This strategy was developed by an inter-agency working group set up for this purpose, in Auzolana. Important collaborative work has been carried out at the Exclusion Commission, at the Social Dialogue Bureau, for the homeless and without resources. The €10 million Inor Atzean Utzi Gabe fund was established to design eight programmes, with which 13,000 people were served, and within which four of these programmes also served, either homeless people living on the street or people seen on the street as a result of the effects of the pandemic. And, in particular, Aterpeak was the program that, during the confinement, enabled places to accommodate people in situations of sinogarism, in the three capitals, serving 1,635 people. Azken Sarea Indartzen has been established, which is a last network to cover the basic needs of people and families with a lack of resources who cannot access ESAs or GIR. And in 2020, 7,621 benefits were distributed, and homeless people benefited from it. There was also the Erdu programme, a programme of intervention in the vicinity of addictions, which served 832 people in 2020, many of them also homeless people. Reference should also be made to Lehen Urratsa, which incorporates the implementation of itineraries, from the resources of accommodation, reception and accompaniment of the homeless, who were welcomed in shelters and ateliers And during 2020, the eight entities involved in the programme served 694 people. Also during the year 2021, these programmes have continued to be maintained, both in housing and basic needs and addiction care, with a high focus on the homeless, with a budget of €9 million. Finally, this experience will be incorporated into the Homelessness Strategy, the next strategy to be developed. Confinement has made it possible to reach all homeless people, and to offer them a housing alternative, through Lehen Urratsa, and access to a benefit to cover basic needs as well. 700 people accepted this programme, and they are still being served, and it opens up the possibility of taking advantage of a more continuous process of social entities. And we cannot forget that the people concerned have the freedom to voluntarily access the help offered to them. And, at all times, there has been cooperation from the third sector. It is clear that steps have been taken before the pandemic and from the beginning of the pandemic until now. We cannot speak, Mrs Gonzalez, as you have indicated, of an aporophobia or phobia to poverty. Nothing further from the reality, because the Basque Government has put in place numerous measures aimed at the homeless. The current Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons is about to be finalized, and the Department of Equality, Social Policy and Justice has already expressed its desire to incorporate all this experience, which has been carried out throughout the pandemic process, into it, and to modify it and the next Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons. We have tried to reach an agreement with different groups in the House. In the end, we have concluded an agreement with the People's Group, and I thank Mrs Garrido for her efforts to bring the three groups (the Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and the People's-Citizens Group) to the compromise amendment. One of the issues on which we have not reached an agreement with the EH Bildu Group and the Podemos Group is because they called for the creation of this committee, but it is that there is already a coordinating committee set up and that has also come to work throughout the pandemic. Another point they pointed out, in which they indicated their concern, was to take them into account – this group – in the vaccination campaign. And we believe that there is a general vaccination campaign, agreed at state level and also agreed with the different autonomous communities. But, in addition to the difficulty this sector could have in our Autonomous Community, the Basque Government, together with the parliaments and Eudel, has established an agreement on how to carry it out, and is currently contrasting with the third sector, on how to improve to reach the greatest number of homeless people in the vaccination campaign. And especially for those who do not reach social services, and is being led by the Social Care Directorate. In other words, it is taken into account that it is indeed a group that may have difficulties, and solutions are being sought, so that as many people as possible can be reached within the vaccination campaign for the homeless. And, of course, we have not tried any kind of agreement – Mrs Martínez is not now in the Chamber – with the Vox Group, because, of course, she proposed – and to us that seems completely outrageous – that all the items intended for aid to workers in unemployment and ERTE should be paralysed because of the COVID-19. Let us see, if what you are asking for is precisely that aid to be paralysed, what will be achieved, precisely with that request, is that there may be more people with difficulties and, precisely, increase those who may be in a situation of exclusion and be able to have housing problems. Mrs Martínez, in the second point, said that we should get to work and worry about the problems of citizenship. If the way to worry about the problems of citizenship is this, let's do it! Fortunately, we carry out other kinds of policies, precisely aimed at correctly focusing on the problems faced by homeless people. And that is why we will support the compromise amendment that we have signed with the Basque Nationalist Group and the People-Citizens Group, on which I will speak more in my second speech, because I am running out of time. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u47	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Lacks, the times we've lived and those we've still lived. This pandemia has hit us all hard. It has taken effect in several parts of our lives: a physical health, and even a psychological health work, an economic work. Each had to enter our own house, where it was the only place to protect us from infection. And it was hard to be in the house for so many months. But there was still something else that had been harder: to have no home, to have no shelter. I'm talking about homeless. And it is important to remark that, when speaking of homeless, it is a very wide concept. The ETHOS report shows that there are more than one typeology: Those who live in the streets, those who live in shelters, or, for instance, people who live in unsecured houses. And COVID-19 has produced two different effects on the homeless ones: On the one hand, when the pandemy had arrived, the condition of the lives of those who were no longer domestics made a mistake; the stigmatization, the refuge, and, in many cases, the possibility of working in the occult economy. On the other hand, the possibility of becoming homeless by the economic crisis caused by the crisis of health increased unfortunately. And this disease affected all over the world, and our people were infected by sickness. And the question we have to ask is: how did our institutions act? What did our government do before the disease? Well, I think when we evaluate the government's practice, and it's important to evaluate the government's operations, the agents we must consider to be two: on the one hand, how the Government was prepared, and on the other hand how the Government answered when this pandemia arrived: And, with regard to the first, how the Government was prepared, we believe it is fair to acknowledge that the Government was working when the pandemic arrived. We believe it is fair to say that, when the pandemic arrived, the Government already had an established path; there were clear lines of action; the Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons 2018-2021 was approved, a strategy whose main feature was prevention, and that it was intended to ensure an adequate distribution of resources in a territorial way; its objective was to generate a person-centred and housing-oriented care model. Ultimately, the pandemic arrived, and the Government had already prepared a path. With regard to the second factor, how the Government reacted when the pandemic arrived, we believe that the Government responded quickly and responded well. The first thing he did was to activate the Exclusion Commission, an interinstitutional and interdepartmental commission, in which different government departments (Social Policies, Housing, Health...) participated, and a commission composed of the Basque Government, the outlaws and also the municipalities, and in which the third social sector also participated. It also created the Inor Atzean Utzi Gabe Fund: €10 million, eight programmes, more than 13,000 people served. Of all these programmes that were launched, four gave a concrete response to the problem of sinogarism: One of these programmes, the Aterpeak Programme, was intended to provide places to accommodate these people in a situation of sinogarism in the three Basque capitals, 1,635 people served. Another programme, the Azken Sarea Indartzen Programme, was aimed at covering the basic needs of people, who could not access social emergency aid or income guarantee income under certain conditions. In 2020, 7,621 benefits. Another programme, the Erdu Programme, aimed at intervention in the vicinity of people with addictions; last year it served 832 people. Finally, we believe that the Lehen Urratsa programme should be highlighted, a programme which aimed to set up routes for accommodation, reception and social support, and which was aimed at the socio-occupational inclusion of persons in situations of sinhogarism. Eight entities intervened, and in 2020 they assisted 694 people. And all these measures – which I know you already know, because this is not the first time they have been listed in this rostrum, Eta Nereak ere batzuk aipatu dituelako – are examples of how the Basque Government responded to the pandemic and to the problem of people in a situation of sinogarism in this country, in Euskadi. They are examples of concrete policies that serve to improve people's lives. Examples of anticipation and response. That is to do politics: to anticipate risk situations, to work to prevent, to insist on improving, to persist when complicated situations arrive. In short, making decisions that directly affect people's lives, and these decisions positively affected these people. Because we cannot forget that the decisions taken by the administrations can affect positively or negatively, and other decisions of other administrations have also affected people in a situation of sinogarism and not exactly positively. They were negatively affected by the decision to close down hotels, close down aterpes But those decisions were made, and it is not a question of blaming anyone; they were made, and they had their consequences. And now what we have to take into account is that we can't go into a battle to see who managed better, who managed worse, what decisions affected more or what decisions affected less; it's about seeing how people can be helped. In short, that's it: working to help people in situations of sinogarism. Therefore, we have seen that Euskadi prevents and Euskadi reacted. But the pandemic has also taught us many things. And, as in other respects, we have to consider it an opportunity. It is time to show that we have learned from all those things that the pandemic has taught us. One opportunity is that it has been possible to identify many people in a situation of sinogarism who were not identified. Another opportunity is that many of these people have, for the first time, relied on institutions. All this is an asset that needs to be taken advantage of and implemented in the next Basque Strategy for Homeless People. And we are convinced that the Basque Government will be able to apply all this knowledge and all these assets it has collected. And that is why I have just explained to you why we have tabled our original amendment and, after that, why we have reached an agreement with the representative of the People-Citizens Group – to which I would also like to thank you for the availability – and that is why we are going to support it, and we are going to support it because we understand that it is more appropriate than the original text and also more appropriate than the compromise amendment that will support other groups. We are also going to support it because we understand that it responds better to the problem of the homeless, that it is more realistic, that it knows better the situation, that it knows better the framework in which they find themselves, and also because we believe that it is a more constructive amendment. And also because there are some points in the original text that we may not share, and that we will have time in the second round also to value. In short, we are going to support our amendment, because we consider it more realistic and more appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u49	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Passing on the answer shift, Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u50	Well, you have to excuse me, but to me, of course, the amendment you have arrived at, the agreement you have arrived at... I don't think it's realistic or constructive or even brave. Because, really, the amendment that you have arrived at is to do what you have to do: to evaluate what is being done and to work on a new strategy of sinogarism. We are aware that... we were bringing a motion that did not raise an answer to the whole structural cause of sinogarism, but it did articulate very concrete, very purposeful and very landed proposals. Mrs Sánchez said: it's the vaccination campaign. We all know that, but where are Euskadi's homeless people in the Basque campaign? Where are they?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mrs Sánchez also said that they did have the third sector. It is normal, because the third sector is the one that is on the street with people in a situation of sinogarism. And, above all, because they have been transferred a great burden of responsibility for that attention, a burden that the Basque Government should be shouldering. And what did you do? Tension to municipal services, social workers and the third sector to give that response. And we did not ask for a committee, Mrs Sánchez, but we did ask for a coordination service. Among all these, messages to the public are crossed that we take care of each other, and that for us is to avoid the institutional responsibility of the Basque Government and a neglect of functions, when allowed, that social services are saturated or that the third sector is the one that gives all that direct support. We kept hearing: individual responsibility... But the individual response capacity in self-care is ignored, which is not the same when you don't have a roof under which to sleep, when you don't have access to drinking water because you close the fountains, or when you have chronic anxiety levels, as happens to a lot of people living on the street. Demanding individual responsibility and, moreover, demanding it from control, is unfair and inhuman. And it's emptying of content the public responsibility we have. As for the answers he has given us, we have asked many times from different groups... We must do real research to clarify the answers we give to these issues. And, besides, they refer to the past. Well, that we believe that everything stays on wet paper and that the answer is that, that they endure the basic social services, that they pull through the whole third sector... And that we have seen that there has been no willingness to assess or monitor the municipalities, because of that voluntarism and lack of budget, among many other things, that we have detected. In the face of the amendment tabled by the Vox group, in the face of speeches of hatred, racism, xenophobia and aporophobia, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, my parliamentary group, is committed to the shielding of human rights for all people. And, finally, I want to thank the third sector, the professionals who are in basic social services, all the profiles that work from the empathy and commitment to the public service they provide, because they know that they are tools for the exercise of social rights and fundamental rights. Also people like Luna, the Red Cross volunteer whose photo hugging a person yesterday in Ceuta has put her in a network violence that no one, no one, no one should suffer. I would like to thank all the host networks that work and, above all, the people who are on the street and who live in subhuman conditions. You're not alone. And we're not going to stop, until all rights are recognized for all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u51	Thank you, Mrs. González. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief... To the representative of the PSE, to Mrs Sánchez, I would like to say that she does not manipulate what Vox has said. You haven't said what you said; nothing to see. You said that we want to paralyse aid to workers affected by COVID-19. If you read the amendment correctly, in point 2, we have said quite the opposite; what we have said is that we have to cut down on their political and ideological spending in order to help our workers. You read it right. We understand that you misunderstand this, because, in fact, you are not much to help the workers; we are now seeing it with the rise you want to make to the self-employed. For you it's all about raising taxes. So, whatever this isn't... Of course, help to the workers does not see it anywhere. I am only going to say one thing to Mrs González: we are not going to enter into this demagogic debate that you bring, because the only thing you do is always resort to insult. We're not going to do it; we're not going to get into it. It's cheap demagogy, and we're clear. And I'm just going to say a sentence that Gustavo Bueno said for you to analyze: "The leader of this left of the present could well be the Pope of Rome, Pope Francis, because it is clear that his politics is not of this world." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u53	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Basque Popularo-Ciudados must not speak. Madame Kortasha from EH Collect, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Nik, aurreazalpen bat edo argibide bat: it is not about helping people; it is about creating conditions for the realization of the rights that people have, and taking on the public responsibilities that everyone has. It's not about generating, it's about helping people. And you proposed an interesting exercise. You said: "Let us consider how we were, or how the Government was, and how he answered it." And it's reality in 2018, when there's a house signed the Euscal strategy of Gabeko when pandemy came... but we have often said that ours did not last the first battle, and that the privations and defects of that system have been very apparent. And that's very obvious in the absence of houses. That's why, when pandemy arrived, the services you put in your wallet were not fully developed. They're not... In fact, legislation is not even developed. It has been six years since the services received in this bag have been a subjective right, and from 12 laws. And they are not developed, nor are they defined, nor are they in the legislation of this government among the priorities. Then he has captured us without doing our homework and without any necessary development. So this group of coordinates had to be rapidly and rapidly articulated with the third sector. And of course this has been done in cooperation with the third sector. It is that the public protection system had no capacity to respond to such situations, and such collaboration has been sought. That, on the other hand, I, in a question to the adviser, already seemed to me a little "so" that, after the answer they gave, would take so long to pay them; because, in the last settlement that came from the covid fund, the payments corresponding to these services had not been made effective. And... you used to say: some resolutions have had a positive influence, and others a negative influence. And yes, and so have I, I have said, some resources were activated in the first rush of the covida. But we've had four attacks, and after the second... and I asked him a question here, in a pliant of control, how many of them were to be known to the Chief of Artola wides.... In order to protect the people without homes in this second attack, I am inclined to recall that one of the inspectors of the United Nations came here and said that in front of the Covida, the first front or first tripod, was the place, and said to me that they were examining it, and in an answer yesterday they are still examining it. And from the second wave, no other resources have been set, if they're not punctual, and I've mentioned some here, for instance, what the Council of Donostia had foretold the other day. And that's why I'm saying, not just the ones our councils set up. And you mentioned it: The decisions which have been made by certain governments have had an independence in the lives of these people. Let's assume that here's just about the decision made by the New York City and the other councils, and because they didn't have it, because it's often a decision that doesn't make a decision, it's also got a coincidence in the lives of these people. And to Mrs. Gloria Sánchez: it cannot be said that all people have been cared for... That cannot be said, because if you talk to those entities that were suggested to us, there is evidence of insufficient places, the need for new resources, new answers... I then, in fact, at the present day, hearing all the assertions, confirm the necessity of this suggestion in my repentance, and of opening this space of reflection between the institutions. And I'd like to know, Mr. Díez Achus, which point of our proposition is not a builder, and which is not a realist. Everything had to be done, everything had to be done! they are propositions proposed from learning and instruction obtained. And yours is like el Gobierno siga seedo lo tenente que hacer, con la colaboracion del tercer secor. And at this moment, after living in life, after learning what I learned, and having already exhausted a plan, it seems to me that it is not enough.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u56	Mrs González, I pointed out in my first speech that different actions have been taken. And all that experience that has been collected and that has been and has been carried out throughout the duration of the pandemic and until now, from the beginning, these are measures that will be taken into account, and all this experience will be taken into account when integrating it into the new Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons, which will be carried out again. You pointed out that what you wanted was a coordination committee, but what I pointed out to you is that this coordination is being carried out through the committee that is now being set up, which is what is already being set up, which is what I was defending you in my first speech. And Mrs Martínez, your amendment, as Mrs González has also said, is full of hatred and racism and misunderstanding of patriotism, with which we do not agree at all. And my parliamentary group has defended, and will defend, the rights of workers, which you do not do. We, as I have already indicated in my first speech, will support the compromise amendment that we have agreed between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and the People's-Citizens Group, in which the Basque Parliament is urged to urge the Basque Government to maintain the coordination of the committee created, because it is already created, together with the other institutions and the third social sector, as a result of the COVID-19, to evaluate the programmes and the implementation, and to continue to take care of the homeless, bearing in mind the whole situation of the pandemic. And, on the other hand, to evaluate the Basque Strategy for Homeless People 2018 and 2021 and to develop a new strategy that focuses on the new profiles that have emerged from the pandemic and the conclusions of that assessment. And this is, of course, the proposal that we are going to support. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u57	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Kortahena, you're right: it is not to help, it is to improve the conditions of life, and if you are right, I must give you reason. But this does not alter what we think, from the content of the matter; we too confirm our opinion, and we continue to think that the Government had done what it ought to do. And our correction isn't in that line, by that conformist tradition you've given us. There's no question that el Gobierno pole lo que tiee que hacer o siga agendo loe que que hacer. No, it's not. Mrs González, you said that the government has not taken homelessness into account in the vaccination strategy. Well, I want you to know that the Government has been involved in discussions with the third social sector and that agreements are being reached, so that people in a situation of sinogarism have a specific treatment in the vaccination campaign, and I would like to say to you, in case you did not know, that many of them will surely receive the dose of Janssen, which is monodose, and that for the problems that these people suffer, it can be more appropriate, for identification or for being able to access them at the time of vaccination. Then, today I haven't heard it, but other times you have come out to this rostrum and told us how sad you are because you haven't been able to reach an agreement, how important it is to reach an agreement, what people will think outside because we're not able to reach an agreement... And I often share it with you, but I want you to know that reaching an agreement requires several things: The first of them is to speak, and I recognize that you did so; you contacted us, in addition to that good tone that characterizes you, and that is why we have to recognize it. Another aspect that is important when it comes to reaching an agreement is to show will. We have already doubted a little, because the text that you referred to us as a proposal was not far from your original proposal, nor is it that you collected anything from what we proposed. And finally, we think it's important, too, when it comes to reaching an agreement, to listen. And as far as listening is concerned, I think I have to remind you that this is a motion resulting from an inquiry, from an inquiry that you made to the Sailburu Sailburu Sailburu Sailburu In conclusion, I would like to thank Mrs Garrido and Mrs Sánchez for their willingness to reach this agreement. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Díez. When we're done arguing, we'll vote together with Podemos EHG and EHG sign, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u60	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote for Misto's full correction, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given are 75; in favour 1; the contrary is 74; in abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u61	So it's not accepted. And in the end, the popular Euscals, Sociists, and Eucariats vote for the middle-term correction which has been signed, you may vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; 75; the supporters, 47; the opponents of the enemy, 0; 28; white, 0.1,0,0,8,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u62	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Exuscal Popular Group-Ciudadnos as a parlamentary group proposal to hire new researchers in order to facilitate the production of the I+G+b check. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gil, representing the popular-Ciudados, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are bringing to this House today a proposal for research, development and innovation in the Basque Country. It is a proposal that has two fundamental objectives: One, that increases the investment that both public and private actors make in R & D+i, in order to achieve convergence with Europe as soon as possible. And, secondly, to give a job and professional opportunity to all those researchers who in Basquedi are doing such an important job, sometimes in such a precarious way, chaining temporary short-term contracts, because the aid for their recruitment does not last more than four years or, in the worst case scenario, they have to go abroad looking for an opportunity, which means a loss of public investment in their training and a loss of talent that we should not be able to afford. I have always had the impression that we do not give research and researchers the social role they deserve, and that we do not give them the importance they deserve. Perhaps it is because we are not aware of the extent to which their work impacts on our daily lives or our economy. It happens to us with many things that do not have an immediate return, that we find it difficult to see the relationship between the activity that is carried out and the result that is obtained. And, in this case, it is obvious, because research, both basic and applied, is a slow, hard work, full of uncertainties, and for which a long-term vision and a constancy are needed, which are not very common in our present society. In private enterprise, on the one hand, immediate economic results are demanded of the investments made. And in the public administration, on the other hand, we are conditioned by the political cycles of four years. However, research requires longer cycles, longer times, in order to achieve results. But above all, there is a reality that we cannot ignore, and it is that, without research, there is no economic or social progress. In recent weeks, we have been discussing research-related issues here – or rather serious problems caused by insufficient research – such as, for example, the aeronautical sector crisis or the car sector crisis. And, today, we will discuss, just next, on the next point, another issue that depends directly on research: the issue of car batteries. But we are in the midst of a global pandemic, in which the only way out has been, as always, research. And it's just that the investigation saves us. Without research, in this case it is obvious, we would not have vaccines, and without vaccines, we would not be able to beat COVID-19. And yet we still do not pay due attention to research and do not recognize the researchers' enormous contribution to humanity. I don't know, for example, how many of us would know how to say, so suddenly, the names of the leading researchers who have discovered the vaccine – or collaborated in it – against the covid. But it is clear that they have been left in the background of the news and the press. They are not in the focus of public attention. They don't have the social recognition they deserve. From here, we should use to send you a greeting and a message of support and a message of appreciation and gratitude, for all the effort you have made and for the effort you are making in that deaf, silent, hidden work, sometimes of library mice or laboratory mice, which makes humanity progress. And who is socially responsible for the investigation? Because we already know that supporters of everything being public, when they get the data that shows a country's research deficits, look to the private sector and that, in turn, the private sector demands more leadership, more investment and more bets from the Administration. And it is clear that this is one of the issues where private public collaboration is not only necessary but indispensable. As in so many others, such as health or education, public-private ecosystems of good collaboration, of regulated collaboration, are working. In this case, it is obvious. Such collaboration is essential in order to move in the right direction. And in that direction goes our proposal as well. But, at present, what is the situation of R & D+i in Euskadi? We have a recent report, the 2030 Science and Technology Plan, in which, in its presentation, on its first page, the lehendakari says: "Our vision is to place Euskadi among the most advanced European regions in innovation, in 2030. Our goal," he says, "is to improve the standard of living and the quality of employment. This is a shared strategy, involving public institutions, companies, universities, research centres, technology centres and socio-economic actors." In 2012, however, Euskadi allocated 2.9% of its GDP to R & D+i-related activities. And this value has gone down to 1.86% in 2019. Meanwhile, in Europe, in 2019, investment in R & D+i stood at 2.13% of its GDP. As regards the public administration, according to Eustat, in 2019 EUR 500 million was invested, rounding up, representing 33.38 % of Euskadi's investment in R & D+i, and that means 0.62 % of GDP. If the Basque public administration, as the Councillor for Economic Development announced, increased investment at the rate of 6% per annum, we would not converge with Europe before 2040. Therefore, while we welcome the commitments announced by the Counsellor, we have to say that it is not enough to achieve real convergence in a reasonable time. Therefore, according to the 2019 Regional Innovation Panel, currently the investment in Euskadi in R & D+i is in the category of "moderate" [[He waved his hands.]] , and has a negative trend in recent years. In 2017, Euskadi was, for example, the region 117 out of 238 in innovation in Europe. In 2019, two years later, Euskadi is region 132; that is, in two years there are 15 European regions that have advanced Euskadi in innovation. The trend that Euskadi is showing with European innovation is negative. Convergence has been negative since 2014. Therefore, while many of the strategies and aid deployed by the Basque Government are in the right direction – and we recognize this – we believe that there is a lack of... it is shown that there is a lack of innovative momentum. It is true that in Euskadi it is invested more in absolute terms in R+D+i than nine years ago, which is when the lehendakari Urkullu, for example, arrived in Ajuria Enea. But it is also true that we invest less than our GDP; the percentage is lower. And it is also true that the rest of the European regions are investing much faster and much more than we are. This is why, between 2017 and 2019, 15 regions have advanced us to the RIS indicator of the European Union. By analyzing these data by components, we can conclude that the main drivers of R & D+i in Euskadi are companies. While the Administration invested €500 million in R & D+i in 2019, companies spent an additional 59.6, almost 60%. Companies contribute 54% (53.9%) of all Euskadi R & D+i investment. And without them, we would move from being a region of innovation classified as moderate to a region of modest innovation. Thanks to the private companies, which some parliamentary groups here are denouncing, we are referring in some industrial sectors. On the other hand, we are faced with a serious problem of the researchers' temporality, which causes them uncertainty and limits their personal and professional perspectives. It is very complicated to develop a life project, a family project, when you don't know how long your contract will last, when your contract has a very short period of expiry, and when, moreover, the offer that exists in the labour market is not very wide. Severo Ochoa said the investigation needs more heads than means. But, in this case, we all know that now both things have to go together, because heads have to pay them properly, to carry out investigative work. We have therefore proposed the creation of an R+D+i cheque, consisting of an incentive for companies to hire new research staff, granted over a four-year period, compatible with the remaining existing aid and developed with the following formula: a first year would be awarded the equivalent of 100% of the business contributions to social security, by common contingencies, of each new researcher being hired; in the second year, 75 would be awarded; in the third year, 50 would be awarded; and in the fourth year, 25 would be awarded. This measure pursues three fundamental objectives: firstly, to encourage the initiation of new innovative projects in Basque companies, ensuring and facilitating the recruitment of staff to carry them out; secondly, to increase the number of researchers in companies – by 5% would be good as a target – to achieve effective convergence with the European Union, and thirdly, to extend the aid for at least four years, in order to give researchers a certain degree of professional stability, so that they can carry out their task, without worrying about their short-term contractual situation, as the aid is extended for four years since their recruitment. For this reason, we have reached an agreement with the groups supporting the Government – and from here I want to thank them for their negotiating will – which I believe is the way in which we have to work. In this transaction, we propose that annual investment in R & D+i should continue to increase, with the aim of keeping Euskadi among the European regions with high innovation. And to continue to drive talent for the development and maximisation of the impact of research on the high-level technological activity of our society, and to continue to offer programmes, such as, for example, this one we propose, or other forms of support for training and incorporation into the entrepreneurial fabric of research personnel to achieve this objective. Thirdly, to promote gender equality in the field of research staff, so that equal opportunities in rights and obligations can be guaranteed. Let us bear in mind that convergence with Europe we have to work on it, because, for the time being, as we said, we are getting further and further away from it. That is why we need to continue to implement effective measures. With regard to the amendment that Bildu has tabled, we believe that the first proposal to reach 3% is interesting and the way forward. But we lack concreteness as to how to do so. In the second part, it proposes a minimum wage of 1,200 euros for researchers. That it seems to us that it is not that much or little, it seems to us little, but that it does not seem to us to make any sense, for three fundamental reasons: Firstly, because the expenditure on R & D and education in Euskadi amounts to only 36,8 % (37%) of Euskadi's expenditure on R & D and would therefore leave 63,12 %, which corresponds to private non-profit enterprises, administrations and institutions, unprotected. Secondly, because defining a different minimum wage for each occupational group makes no sense, and it seems to us that it is contrary, precisely, to philosophy; precisely, it is a minimum and, therefore, the minimum should be more or less common. Thirdly, because that is not what our proposal is about. And it is true that the Basque Government already has other aid aimed at facilitating the recruitment of researchers, on the part of... There are those of the Basque Government and there are those of the Government of Spain. But it is clear that this existing aid is not sufficient to achieve the objective, and our proposal is to provide more ideas, to provide additional aid to existing aid, which seems to be very necessary, in view of the results. But it must be clear that this initiative seeks to be a consensus initiative, within a general framework that aims to position us as R & D+i referents in Europe. At least for the time being, don't let the train get away from us. Let Europe not go away from us. And if it were possible, and we were able to invest more, effectively, position ourselves as referents. As you know, our parliamentary group is a strong supporter of the importance of investment in innovation; we say this in virtually every proposal that has to do with the economic issue. Because we believe that innovation lays the foundations for the future development of the regions, generates well-being in society and generates quality jobs. But we are aware that this initiative alone cannot change the negative trend that Euskadi has been showing with regard to investment in R & D+i. But we do believe that it is in the right direction, and that we must go to work and continue to provide ideas on this. In addition, we can assure you that we will continue to bring more such initiatives in this regard. Some will be more important and others more modest, but all will have the objective of collaborating in the convergence of spending with the European Union. And this is a concept I want to highlight, that of collaboration. Because the initiative we will adopt today is a constructive, concrete initiative, and we believe that it is relatively easy to implement. I reiterate my commitment to collaborate, contribute and improve in all initiatives brought by the rest of the parliamentary groups to this House whose objective is to improve innovation in the Basque Country in a sincere and effective way. The problem is that, surely, we talk little about a subject as relevant to citizens as it is to research, in which I think we all share the end; but sometimes we disagree in the measures to reach it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u64	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Saez de Egeilaz, representing the EH Collector, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u65	Congressman, thank you. Well, in this other proposition of the law today, we seem to us to be working on different shores. And therefore it seems to us, that the distinction of what we wish to give him is important, and that two subjects which demand special debates have been published this day. First, it must be said, that the sects of the Government and we alone have represented a full correction, and that in this time we have been able to arrive at an intermediate proposition, or at least upon the table; but it seems to us that we are speaking of many things, and that it is not possible this day. We know, however, or feel that there are at least a few common points, from the view of two whole corrections: On the one hand, because we unite in the aim of the essence, namely, that the value which ought to be given to inquiry and development must be increased, and consequently also to the investigators that it is necessary to give more value. And so, if we agree in this, we may, at least, look forward to other points in common. This is why we feel that, on the other hand, we shall have more opportunity of doing this. And, as has been said, in the consideration of matter, there are two different things for us in this proposition, or rather there may be either a contribution or at least a critique at this time: In the first place, we have an account of inquiry and development. In that case, we know the great point of the discussion today is that it's the same. It seems to us that the axiss of the political investigation must be discussed within this, that of the strategic plan. And, in this respect, we know that today, by chance, it is not enough to accept the panomama. In the original proposition, for instance, the popular Party-Ciudadans, in the investment of the raw internal exploit, was proposed to Europe, and we maintain that this purpose is too low for us, and we defend ourselves from investing more in investigation and development. And for us, this end or objective object cannot be confined to the limit; we think that conformation with the mean is not sufficient. And if this be any complex thing, we do not think it necessary to dispute about it in such a dispute. So, on the basis of this later strategic plan, we think it's best to plan specialised employments, because we'll have the chance in the next few weeks. And as for the second extreme to be developed, here are the investigators, predotists, doctors, posters, all these investigators, all these people... we must also speak of fundamental conditions. And, above all, what we have to talk about is how these people are under the few conditions of work which are suffering, and consequently how the few conditions of inquiry are taking place in our country. If we speak of science, we believe that science must be brought to the first line, and, in regard to the conditions of work, we must go further into it. We believe that the working conditions of the working men working in the field of study, development, and innovation are now quite different from the parameters of their social employment. And we've been talking about this Parliament several times, and we've had the opportunity, for example, to appreciate the conditions of all those researchers who get paid for the EukMalk and pay, and it wasn't possible a few months ago. But further on, it seems to us that we must go deeper into this, because this is one of the primary conditions. And this discussion of today seems to us to be necessary in the same terms; that is to say, in the very heart of all inquiry, we must establish the quality of the inquiry, and that we must establish contrivances to ensure the worthy conditions of the investigators. It goes without saying, of course, that even today, that we are talking about dignity, just as much of the commercial dignity, and it has been mentioned in advance of all that I am just saying right now. For us, the question is very serious: how is it possible to be so general, and, unfortunately, to have a reality in this respect extreme presumption? How is it possible for us to be professors of our college, to realize the life or the life of those who are in the field of preparation, of study, of development, and of innovation, the daily work of people who are doing a great deal of good work in predominance and miserable conditions? For us, we must give them an answer, as much as they do, voluntarily, and public institutions must be there. And besides, we have to mark a path for this answer of the size, and it seems to us to-day that this passage is not enough. In this law, and generally I would say in the institutional policy of François, there is a tremendous use of the "pais tips," or concepts, which are used, it is not possible for those investigators who are doing the work at the end of our work, those persons who are offering to us the points of inquiry, those persons who are making important scientific contributions to the citizen... that they ought to work on these conditions, and that their labours should not be of any service, social, or institutions. To us, like the people, it is necessary to give an answer to these people who are making their daily academic and social contributions, because they must also see that this daily effort must yield its fruit. And for us, prestige is not acknowledged at this day, and, besides confessing prestige, we must also show it in some way to actions, and at the present day this confession is not real. That's why we think as a village we have an engagement with all the investigators, and we've left them behind today. And besides, we see that they live in terrible ways, that all this study of investigators is very hard, that it is lonely and sad; and that if they have in it rather small conditions of work, it becomes even worse or even more terrible. We've seen a problem in the original initiative, or something we've said more than once on our part of this World Air Force, we don't see it without any condition, and so we've put on that minimum of 1,200 francs salary that will be paid at 14. Because we can't encourage ourselves without setting any limits or conditions. And if these conditions are not established, as we have often mentioned, we seem to us to be financed in some way, and to be provided with such a kind of incentives to enpresis, and their fundamental conditions of work, to lead them forward, that these fundamental conditions are not respected in many cases, and that all these scholars and investigators condemn us to work on terrible miserable conditions, unless we rightly determine what we wish, and what condition we wish to be all these investigators to be. And besides, we have to realize that this is very important to me, that many of the students are plunging into the paths of the investigation. We know there are a lot of forms in which to jump into the study world, but I think that knowledge of today's direct connection or direct relation to the subject is the feeling that is generally spread in the Universities. We have often said that the young men of our generation had once lied to us to learn that they weren't to work after, and when we see the "no future" in it and the way to college, we are many who decide to open the doors of the inquiry, or at least to plan it. And it's terrible that public scholarships, for example, should be wanted, students from college. But, for example, these students know what it is, they know that a thousand dollars will be paid for, they know that they will have endless days of work, and then you will begin this investigation with the intention of doing a job which no one will guarantee you. And I say from experience, because I have more and more people around me developing this way of becoming investigators. And, further, I believe that these investigators have not the hope of living in a dignified manner, unfortunately, or with the hope that they will be encouraged; and most of these investigators live passionately with all this process of inquiry, and know that everything will be opposed to them; And some of them are bound to do this way, and others have chosen it so, and have the materials to choose it. But, for us, passion here at least is not the least possible to demand; the least thing that can be demanded for us is that in this case we have worthy conditions of labour, and therefore, as a institution, we must make a firm wager for the investigators. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gil, you have provided a number of figures to expose the situation of R & D & i investment in our country and in Euskadi and the existing gap with the countries of our environment and the European Union, which I will not rebut, but I will add some more data to complete that analysis, based on the fact that knowledge and innovation are essential for maintaining and improving social well-being and economic growth, something I am glad that we have agreed in this House: The Spanish investment in knowledge reached its historical peak in 2019, exceeding for the first time the 15 billion euros and recording its fifth consecutive growth rate. Both the public and private sectors have contributed to this positive development. The latter, which represents 56% of total R & D, has also recorded its historical peak in terms of both investment and employment, with an R & D investment of more than €8.7 billion and an additional 14,279 people. However, the public sector has not yet been able to overcome the pre-economic crisis levels, neither in investment nor in employment. In fact, however, the weight of R & D in our country is 1.25% of GDP, far from pre-crisis levels and the 2% targets set by the State Plan for Scientific, Technical and Innovation Research by 2020. Euskadi, for its part, stands at 1,97 %, which places it as the autonomous community with the highest expenditure on research and development, in relation to its GDP, of the state. In 2019 it invested 1,474 million euros. However, this path contrasts with Europe, which already invests 31% more than before the crisis, and stands at 2.13% of GDP. Investment in R & D in Spain was 59% of the European average in 2019. And the explanation of this distance between our country and the European average, in terms of R & D, is not due to the economic potential, since, if we take the European average as index 100, the per capita income in our country is 91, while the investment in R & D per capita remains 49. With this additional information, what I want to put forward are two ideas: firstly, that Spain has not recovered the levels of public investment in research and knowledge prior to the crisis, and secondly, that it has economic potential and investment margin to narrow the gap with Europe. It is for this reason that the Ministry of Science and Innovation has included budgets for 2021 with the highest figure in history, with a 59.4% increase in direct investment to a total of EUR 3.2 billion. Budgets aligned with the conclusions of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction, which was adopted at the Congress last July, and where European funds for economic recovery will represent an opportunity to move towards Community objectives of total, public and private investment. And to strengthen these objectives, the Pact for Science and Innovation has been launched, which includes three minimum commitments: in public funding, in the medium and long term; stability for agencies; and promotion of talent. A pact that requires public funding from the Science and Innovation System to increase steadily to 0.75% of GDP by 2024 and 1.25 by 2030, which, together with the contribution of the private sector, would result in 2% of our GDP by 2024 and 3% by 2030, as recently proposed by the European Union. In addition, the Pact proposes to consolidate a stable public career for research and technical staff, equivalent to that of the most advanced countries, and to have the appropriate material and administrative means since they start working. And precisely, the first step to improving the scientific career is through the reform of the Law of Science. The objectives of this reform are to create an attractive and stable research career and to promote the transfer of knowledge and improve the governance of the Spanish system in this field. Therefore, as I say, the first objective of the reform is to ensure that researchers have an attractive, predictable and stable career that will attract and retain talent. The Government is proposing the creation of a recruitment model used in the United States, Canada and eight European countries, consisting of a fixed recruitment, subject to external, objective and transparent evaluation. With this model, entry into the system will ensure equal opportunities and that real talent and dedication are rewarded. At the same time, talent attraction policies will be guided and strengthened with more and better contracts in the initial postdoctoral phase and with support to the contractors for the projection and consolidation of their scientific projects. For our part, in Euskadi we have the Strategic Plan for Science, Technology and Innovation, which provides for the investment of 218.6 billion up to 2031, and an annual increase of 6% to support R & D+i. It is a plan that consolidates Euskadi's strategic commitment to research and innovation, and focuses much of it, through its strategic pillars and its most operational objectives, on promoting and managing scientific, technological and entrepreneurial talent, especially women, as a key instrument for supporting R & D and innovation. Up to 17 aid and support programmes are envisaged by both the Basque Government and the Members of Parliament. These include, for example, the Ikerbasque Programme or the Talentua Ikaskuntza by the deputies. Therefore, there is a great deal of support both at the national level and within our autonomous community for the recruitment of research staff, for their reinforcement, for an attractive and stable career and for working in a system to attract early talent, according to the most advanced countries. Never before has the need for a State policy for science and innovation been so evident, a policy worthy of maximum consensus, because it will be essential to accelerate recovery and, beyond that, to ensure long-term prosperity. The future science law also aims to improve the governance of the Spanish Science, Technology and Innovation System, with new complementary government programs with autonomous communities, to finance and carry out joint and strategic R & D+i actions. In our view, it is essential to have good governance, to align and coordinate well all these aid and support programmes, and to look at them from a more global and inclusive perspective. I am therefore glad, Mr Gil, that we have been able to agree on a compromise amendment with your group, because we have thus enriched it and we are considering more support programmes and formulas, in addition to R & D checks that we value positively. Finally, I would like to reflect on the factors that determine the attraction and retention of talent, as they are of a very varied nature. The progress of a modern society depends more and more on the talent it has at its disposal; therefore, recent efforts have been made to measure its level and evolution. It highlights the Global Index of Competitiveness in Attraction and Retention of Talent, published for five years, where Spain is ranked 31 out of 119 countries. This index consists of six major pillars, which describe the ease of generating, attracting and retaining talent, as well as the availability of technical capabilities and knowledge-generating institutions of excellence. Communities that hold the first ranking positions But if something is fundamental to us, it is the necessary struggle for equality in science. We are very aware of the gender gaps that persist in our Science, Technology and Innovation System, mainly to attract, retain and foster their talent. And work must be done to eradicate these inequalities and to take full advantage of the talent of half the population, especially in the private sector, where the greatest share of employment, today, remains male, with 68% compared to the public sector, which stands at 51%. That will have a very beneficial effect on our entire science and innovation system. That's all; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, madam, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning... Good afternoon, everybody. In the discussions of this day, we may find a much greater range of encounters than discords. We agree with the importance of research, development, and development investments and expense in our company and economy contestation. We think it's crucial that these investments shouldn't depend on crisis and, whatever the financial situation may be, we can assure them. We agree with the desire to put Euskadi in Europe as a guard, with the desire to be a system of this age, and to continue in Spain as a reformer. And we agree that we have investigators at the center of research, development, and innovation. Although this pandemy, with the professionals of health, has reflected on all of us, they have worked for many years in order to improve the welfare of society, not only in health, in industry, in education, in culture, and so on, in the industrial area, in government, or in private institutions, but on scientific investigations. It is difficult to determine what is the profession or profile of the investigator, because fields of study are multiples, and because there are significant differences between the practice of activities. The role of investigators is essential in a society that appreciates knowledge and seeks to develop science, technology, and humanistic terms. Without an investigator, there would be no way of building specialized cognitions, which might have practical applications of any kind: medicine, industry, science, social, etc. In the same way, in a country, the investment of research, research, development and innovation is essential to technical progress, to get better technology and to keep society going. For technological improvements enable the increase of the produce of the country (with less resources we can produce it), and therefore we shall satisfy more wants and increase our quality of life. And when I have said all this, I wish to explain the triangle of knowledge, which rests on it, and also on the medium of our correction, and also on the PP-Ciudadans. On the one side of a triangle there is a form, in the other an inquiry and development, and in the third a novelty. A country is indispensable to invest in education in its quality of life, because people will investigate it. In the same way, we need to protect countries from research and development investments so that we can develop better products. And, finally, it's important that these improvements should be new and that there are companies ready to be included in the markets. We have often heard the President and the chairman of the Tapia department say that the question, the development and development of the government, is a firm wager. And thus it is found in the budgets of 2021, where 210 million euros supports the program for technology, innovation, and Digital transformation. And not only this, but the fifth engagement of the Resurrection, says: "It is a commitment to investigation, development, and innovation to work on 6% of the average of the public investment, to be a European news zone, and to face global transitions as an opportunity." In this program, we can read in the second policy of strengthening the economy for 2020 to 2020 to 2025, that 2,2 million euros are collected, and that we foresee that 800 new European projects will be encouraged and financed. And also, on Tuesday, the budget approved by the Council of Government is to be mentioned for the support of the research and development projects in 2021. And at the first point in the transaction signed with the PP-Citizens Group, we call for an increase in annual investment in R & D+i, with the aim of keeping Euskadi among the European regions with high innovation. It is true, as the PP-Citizens Group pointed out in its initiative, that we have not achieved convergence with Europe, and that, in relation to GDP, we are still below the European average. But that data needs to be accompanied by others, which the PP-Citizens Group has forgotten to mention and which are important to see which site we occupy. Our spending, year by year, has been growing, and has been doing so, as Eustat's reports show, five years in a row. This year we will reach 535 million, that is, 50 million euros more investment than last year. And yes, although we still have a way to go, we have the commitment, a commitment, the commitment of the Basque Government to increase its annual budget to support research, development and innovation by 6%. A commitment and an objective fact. And, although we do not reach the European average, we lead – we continue to lead – the ranking The first part of the justification of the initiative, and the first two points of the GNP, talk about investment in R & D+i. The second part of the justification and the third point of the GNP tell us about the implementation of an R+D+i check, which Mr Gil has already explained, in order to encourage the recruitment of researchers. This proposal affects the human resources dimension, of which, by the way, you have not given any data, Mr Gil. But, for information, I will tell you that in this dimension Euskadi achieves good results. Moreover, throughout the framework package of the IUS 2020 our Community has a better score than the European average in its three dimensions: human resources, attractive research systems and innovation-friendly environments. We must also declare that there are persons in the middle of the investigation, development, and innovation, and that there are investigators who care to increase the knowledge of society, who repair dilemmas, who find answers to the uncertainty of new challenges, or the new mechanism of expressions. And to this talent is directed the second point of our middle course: Today, when you're talking about the scientific talent and the tech, some of them are the rights of the Board of Education, the Investigation Program, also Mrs. Pérez. And I'd like to make a pause here, reminding myself that in 2020 new researchers have been added to this program from which 14 euscalic citizens were engaged to add another 100 in the next four years. And, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz, the confession you asked for. Well, on Tuesday, both the president and the chairman of the Union, among others, had confessed to all these investigators. The programs before the doctor's doctor's doctor's doctrated program for doctor enhancement, research program, short program and study veto, including the jurisdiction of the Board of Education. And also the Department of Economy, patience, and Environmental help has: Excellents, a program that helps to do industrial performances and hire researchers, or help in agriculture, fishing, and food sector, to the training of scientific, technologists and technologists. And they're the ones that's making love to you. But, as I have said before, we demand an inquiry into all the public and private euphorans, development, and innovation of our correction. And it's true that other public euscal institutions in this area are also provided for by help, and I won't begin to explain them one by one, but if anyone wants to know about them, he can find them on the planet of Euskakal science, technology, and development. And, to conclude, not with less importance, the third point of our middle course: "In the sphere of investigators to promote the difference of the genus, in order to ensure the equality of rights and duties." It is true that for years the presence of women is increased, but in our community 2019 were only 36 percent of investigators.8. And yet it is still higher than the average of Europe. But we think that's not enough. We still have a long way to go. A couple of weeks ago, in this entire gathering, he spoke of scientific women, and it became clear that there have been so many of them in the science world and also the eucalyptic women who have been expert in the technology world. And it's another purpose to increase this list as a village, to be women of euscal investigators, and to be involved in that challenge all of us must be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u71	Good morning, everyone. We are talking about a very relevant issue. And, in this regard, I would like to thank Mr Gil, first of all, for having given the opportunity to the parliamentary groups to discuss this issue, which I am sure we will have the opportunity to do on more occasions, to begin with, in the coming weeks, the Commissioner will come to explain her new plan. Then, in that sense, we will have, I understand, much longer, the ability to address the objectives of the Basque Government in relation to this issue. In any case, starting with the current situation, I must say that the impact of the social and economic crisis of the covid has shown what almost all the parliamentary groups that have intervened, and right now my own, have demonstrated on more than one occasion. And it is that the importance of science is not only linked to the capacity for innovation and technological improvements, with a view to the productivity of companies, but it is also a fundamental element to anticipate and anticipate circumstances such as, for example, the health emergency resulting from the covid, and also to provide solutions to these emergencies. And, in that sense, it is also somewhat ironic – I would say – that virtually all the parliamentary groups that we go out here to talk about and mention the relevance of science and its development and of public spending linked to its promotion, in turn, let us assume, as Mrs Pérez has done, that the practice of the cuts of the last decades – or of the last decade, better said – has contributed to the fact that right now we are not in the figures of spending and investment that existed before the economic crises that have arisen in recent years. For us and for us, it is ironic, because if that were the case, it would have been reflected with great interest on the part of the Basque Government to recover those levels of investment. On the other hand, with regard to the second question, which concerns the approach or the measure proposed by your group, and which has been taken by the parliamentary groups that support the Government, I must say that we are in favour of it, because who would be against better working or economic conditions for researchers? But also tell him that, of course, it is not the panacea. That this, as has been said, has to do with a structural element, which is precariousness, which has – it seems to be – come to stay, if it is on the part of your group, and that if you can fight, in this case, with public subsidies. It is also ironic that what is sometimes subsidies that contribute to investment, at other times, subsidies for other aspects are spent. That is to say, when the public administration uses public money to subsidise the wage costs of private companies, without providing any form of conditionality, because you in your proposal do not allude to any conditionality with regard to the collection of this R & D & i check or for research, in such cases, it does seem that this public expenditure is linked to the possibility of increasing the investment and production capacity of public companies; but, if the subsidy or public expenditure is intended for the maintenance of the welfare state, in that sense they already consider it expenditure or, of course, do not consider it appropriate. In any case, it does not seem to us, a priori And with regard to the third point, which concerns the gender gap or the lack of women in research activity... Yes, indeed, it is worrying. It is a reality that has been given since, practically, the beginnings of the process of existence itself of scientific and technological development, the lack of women in this field. And it is true that there are policies linked to recovering or proposing solutions to this issue. In this sense, in general terms, with regard to the point, which is also – worth the redundancy – quite general, our parliamentary group does not oppose. Then, in that sense, we are going to vote in favour of the compromise initiative, but I say to you, telling you that with regard to the first, we believe that the objective of keeping Euskadi between the European regions with high innovation; that is to say, to reach 2%, seems insufficient, when the European Union already says that we have to reach 3%. And in that sense, we believe you will agree. Then, with regard to the second approach, I have already explained to you: we believe that it is not the panacea; it does not face the reality of precariousness, which is a structural problem today, not only in the field of research and science, but in many more. And with regard to the promotion of gender equality in the field of research staff, what do you say?It is difficult not to join this. So, I guess we'll have a chance to discuss this more profusely and with more concrete approaches. But, in any case, as you said in your first speech, we will always try to join in all those initiatives, put forward by any parliamentary group, that go in the direction of improving and promoting the working conditions or the capacity of public administrations themselves to spend, linked to research and development. Because we believe, and more so now, with the European funds and the debate on the question of reformulation of our country's productive fabric, which is a priority issue. And, in this regard, I must say that we will support it, but that we believe that it is insufficient in many of its sections and that it does not address others who have not been included in the transaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing the answer round, Euscala Populara-Ciudados, Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u73	I am very pleased that we all – it seems like everyone – share some issues, such as support for research and researchers; this seems unanimous in this Parliament. And what we would certainly need is to translate this into concrete issues to carry it forward. It also seems to me that we all agree that investment in research must be increased. Well, let's do it, because we can do it and it's necessary. No, I do not think that we should be triumphalists on this issue; that is, we cannot be triumphalists in any way. And in that sense, I don't think we should be satisfied with what we're doing, as much as, as always, numbers and comparisons can be done in one way or another, and we always find people who make it worse than us, and others who make it better... But it's the same. The question is very simple: convergence with Europe we are not getting it; we are moving further and further away, and we need to invest much more in researchers and research, because it is a subject – on which I repeat – we are living. We're going to live for the future. I don't know if you know how much it costs to do a doctoral thesis. No, I don't mean just money; I mean time and effort. Some people will know that because maybe they've been there, right? But it has been my turn in life to direct many doctoral theses, and to suffer the whole process with the people who make them, the very long process that involves a doctoral thesis. And you know what it's for? Really, it's the front door to the investigation. I mean, without a doctoral thesis, let's say you're not qualified to do research; research is done just to qualify for this, right? But do you know what it's for socially and economically? Do you know how much a doctor charges? I don't have the exact figure of what the average is, but what I do have is the very clear feeling that these two things are in very clear disproportion. That is, the enormous effort involved in making a doctoral thesis and what it means is very disproportionate. And so it happens to us, logically, that people think about it a lot before starting a research career, because it's not worth it, so simple, it's not worth it! I mean, he's not compensated. And it is also that research today can only be done with public aid; it is very difficult to do research without public aid. I think we have to break that dependency, and I think this should not be done, Mr Soto, with subsidies. In fact, the approach we take is not to make any kind of subsidy. Indeed, you know that work is the most fiscally punished economic element; that is, the most costly. And what we are saying is that this concrete has a few less costs, but no subsidies. Because, if not, we would be bumping into the system once again and making the system artificially develop. I think we have to make investments, but we have to make investments to reactivate the system and to change things structurally, not to generate dependence. And of course I agree that convergence with Europe is not enough. But right now we are far away, with which, the first goal to be realistic should be to set it here. I wish we could consider being the champions of the world in this, but let's be realistic. Today, still, look, we are talking about 6% annual increases, and we have already said that with 6% annual increases, we do not reach convergence with Europe until 2040. Then, I think this has to be changed and changed. We have to invest more. And if we get this, we'll talk about more. But, Mr. Soto, I have not heard you... surely it is my problem, but I have not heard your solutions; I have not heard your proposals. And I believe that in this matter it is worth it that we all contribute our shoulders and put concrete solutions. Our proposal is modest, it is humble, it is one. Of course it's not the panacea, we don't pretend it is. This is a complex issue, on which many things must be brought; but, if we all agree, let us look for ways to advance research and support researchers in the Basque Country, not only for the economic benefits it has, but also for the social benefits it would have for everyone. Because that has an impact, in the medium and long term, on the well-being of the country and, therefore, on the well-being of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Ms. Saez de Egillaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u75	Thank you, Chief. We, on this occasion, shall vote for abstinence, because it seems to us that what is proposed is not sufficient, and especially because the words we have heard here are not quite true. It is not true that we are in a country of high innovation, and it is what is planned, at least in our opinion, to maintain a policy that has failed. And even in the case of research and development and innovation, it collapses, as far as the percentage of the raw internal product is concerned, and the rescription index 3. We're on the level. And therefore it seems to us that what we have heard here today is not enough, and therefore we understand that we cannot follow what has been done before. In the end of our investigation, innovation, and development, it cannot be denied that we must at least mark this goal of the BPGd which the European Union has marked, unless we plan it, which is not to be done unless it is planned. And then, from one point of view, a discourse about prercancy, which has a direct connection with youth, because most of the investigators are young or are young, but it is plain that the world of inquiry, the world of investigation, is to live in a constant precencies, and that is an immense extension due to the mistakes of your conditions of life for many years. And I've heard here that it'd be a lot of investing or much, and that what we're looking at in the day is that those who jumped into the study world with a scholarship given by the Ministry, be with the cry of Euskion, be with the scholarship given by EHU, what we see around us is that some of them collect as much as they do, and that it's very difficult to resist. And from here it has been asked, too, I would answer that question if we knew how much it costs to make a doctor. Unfortunately, many of the investigators today decide to make a doctor because they have no other choice than because they feel that they have and can at least be a chance, but what they suffer in those four years, and even in the pandemia circumstances, this suffering, this loneliness... Now, at least, we think, that if we all took this confession at once, and actually offered it the most suitable conditions of work, it would be easier to follow it, because it is often said "No," because what is offered is very little. And I think it's mentioned that we can agree with a lot of things too. Now, if we agree, let us improve these conditions of work, let us improve the conditions of life, let us, at least, let us make an effort, not only to wait for the next few years, or to a state which may be a few years hence; let us begin now. And honestly, those conditions can be improved, and there's opportunity, and the Eusk0's got the means to do it in this case. Hence it seems to us that if we were to discuss those proposals which are made from here, or at least which may be made, and put them in such a position as is most worthy of labour and of quality, we should improve the life of these investigators. And if we're really talking about prestige, let's get ready for a job and a whole road worth prestige. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz. Sociists, Mrs. Pérez? Mrs. Pérez must not speak. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide? Yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Again. First of all, I want to thank all the teams for the tone they used in this discussion. And secondly, I don't know if I've ever been wrong in arguing with the PP-Cellanos in the last round. During this day's discussion, Mrs. Saez de Egeilaz, I discussed with you in a short letter which I discussed to you the hiring of investigators. We're not doing research conditions. This was discussed in November, the Board of Education, where we made a decision. Ms. Saez de Egililla, as you have said, was directed to you, in order to obtain a middle course, because we thought it worth while, as we have seen, we had more agreement than discords, and you told us that it was impossible because we did not mention crude internal proceedings. And now you've said that the percentage of raw internal exploit is going down, but the collapse is crude internal damage at the moment, it's been down for 2020 and 2021 years. Then if we apply it to that percentage, what we invest will be less than what we propose. To which I would add, that the state of a land ought not only to be measured for the money invested, but also the quantity and quality of the results obtained. So we have not come to an agreement, but we have still three years left to the law, and if we are patient here, we shall be here to accompany you-I am glad that you also are so. Nevertheless, it must be admitted that in the most advanced countries the principal funding of research, development, and development investments are derived from companies and that public sector is a tool to promote investments. It is therefore indispensable to encourage the pursuit and development of corporations, especially to promote the influence of great enterprises, to produce a traction effect, and to promote high technism and expert ability to hire experts in small and mid-town companies. We know that we must overcome the weakness of the Euscal Autonomy in the innovation and development of the Renaissance, and especially that we must pay attention to small companies, which show great weakness. And to overcome this situation, cooperation between companies must be strengthened; we must strengthen, tune, and make them more useful. Basque administrations are 100% involved for the public. It is a priority to improve our entire productive fabric, make it smarter, greener, more innovative and one of the lines of action to achieve it is to go through R & D+i. What I want to transfer to you is that, recognizing that we do not meet European standards, we are going in the right direction and that there is an important effort on the part of the Basque administrations (the Basque Government, parliaments and municipalities) to place us among the European regions with high innovation, yes, with high innovation. This is reflected in the note published on 28 October 2020, which said: "The European panel of European innovation indicators EIS 2020 reaches a value of 0.502 in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, with data referring to 2009, almost identical to the European Union average of 27, with a value of 0.507, according to data produced by Eustat. This figure places the Basque Autonomous Community at the level of the group of countries with high innovation, obtaining an average of more than 95 % of that registered by the European Union of 27". This must be our goal as a country. We must maintain and take root as a country with high innovation. And I'd like to apply the last minute to the families of the rare diseases that are being proclaimed by day researchers, especially the pharmaceutical corporations who ask them to think of them. And you will allow me to remind you above all of the society of my country, Derio, of our Séña, where Kepa and Arene are no longer with us, but are still struggling with so many other families. Or the brothers of Sodiika, Alain and Confession, who suffer a disease of the Ataxia of Friedman, or the sister of a good friend of my school, Amaia, the mother of Gami. I hope the medium we signed today is useful to them and to families like them. I'd like to offer them our support, and our commitment to continue working according to our jurisdictions. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia. Mr. Soso mustn't speak a word. The debate is over and we'll vote for the half-correction signed by the Basque Popular Group-Céanos, Basque Socialists and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 54; the contraries, 0; Abstations, 21. white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u79	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Otero Gaboro team, about the installation of a gigaphics for the production of electric batterys. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Otero, you're the one who's the one who's the one to introduce and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u80	Hello, good afternoon to all. At 7 p.m. this afternoon the appointment is called to give Joaquín Beltán the last farewell. And from here, I think, I may say in the name of all, that we divide the intimacy and feeling with the family. I am going to the point: Today is the result of the interaction of three weeks ago, when we discussed the need to install a gigaphics or an electric battery production factory, and I worked with the Chief of Tapia. The diagnosis was fairly shared, and I shall review what I have said just then. The theme is important, because the automation sector is strategic in the Basque Country, it's one of the main executives: We have more than 300 companies connected to the sector. There's 40,000 live jobs in the extra industry, so much more abroad. It's a huge job he gets through, and he supposes 20 percent of the job industry. The data is large, and there is an correlation between the weight of our prosperity and the weight of our automation. In order to leave a single data, Araban, without leaving Araba, is tied to 28% of the raw internal procedure. That's a lot, it's terrible, and we'd say there's also some addict. And this is of no consequence, because the automation sector is involved in the deepest transformation that has been exposed to the last 100 years, and because the main challenges we've got today are fully caught in the sector: That is to say, the technology challenge and the climatical challenge. We won't be working around the digital challenge of automation, but that's where the connectivity, autonomous vehicles, advanced manufacturers, new advanced ingredients, etc., and so on, about them the other day. And there are also new tendencies: Shared cars, mobiles as services, etc. And we all know that this will be a huge impact in our industry, and that it will bring options and risks. And, briefly, we have been specialists in some areas, and now we have to make great changes in order to specialize new tendencies, don't we? The other great challenge of automation is connected with the climateal emergency and the neurotic transition. The latest ebony of the last emissions, 2019 years old, and still higher, is the main leaker in our country (%1%) Again, it follows that more than a third part of the transport is derived from it. And it's troubling about the flow that makes or produces very much transports. And it's urgent that the latest automation products, i.e., in vehicles, take a transformation, i.e. moving to unsent vehicles. And this is a process which has already taken place, although in heavy vehicles the process is still in principle, though it is not yet clear technology to prevail, I believe that the modification in light vehicles has already been introduced into an acceleration process, and especially by the electrocution of vehicles. This tendency is unstoppable, and many countries have already begun to end thermal engines. And as far as we are exportators, these predictions are plainly discovered, and the climate law of the State, which is lately received, also says CO. 2 The light vehicles with sheds can't be sold in 2040. This isn't tomorrow, but we have to do the planning today and we have to make the strategic decisions today. We're not alone, most of the manufacturers are strengthening the electric offer, they've made a lot of predictions, and most of the carprints are forming. Eta ez da, diodan bezala, etorkizuneko kontu bat, éta datu hauek ere eman nituen aurrekoan. The Association of European Builders noted that this is already a reality. And the million-and-a-peak... That is, of the total number of vehicles sold in Europe in the first quarter of this year, one million have some kind of electrification and more than 200,000 are pure electric vehicles, with a 55% increase in sales, while gasoline and diesel have yielded, say, 19 and 21 % of the land, respectively. So the trend – we understand – is unstoppable. Opportunity niches are there, but it is also true that there are associated threats. It was also taken out the other day by the German Fraunhofer Institute, in conjunction with the IG Metall union, which is the largest in Europe, and leaves little room for doubt. The change of engine to the electric vehicle may result in a 25% reduction in industrial jobs associated with the manufacture of vehicles in Germany. And the study of the consultant KPMG gave very similar numbers for the whole of Europe. And the reason is very simple, and it is well known: electric vehicles have much less components than thermals, especially because the propulsion system is much simpler. And that does not go into assessing what, in terms of employment, changes in the mode of transport, the shared vehicle, mobility as a service, automation of advanced manufacturing processes, etc. can entail. So the question is not whether the current jobs can be maintained, but whether, in the enormous process of transformation into the productive fabric associated with automotive, the employment balance can be positive or, at least, not negative, and resolving this doubt, for our country, is completely crucial; because we could cling to what is there, because there is a lot and it is done in general good terms, but, in this way, if we cling too much to this, we would not enter into the transformation, and we understand that, in the medium term, the answer is obvious: we must fully enter the transformation; it is more, we should push it forward. This motion – or this proposal and the compromise we have reached – in any case does not intend to go so far, and even today we do not intend to resolve many of the issues related to the electrification of the mobile park, such as the expansion of the charging network, renewable electricity, the promotion of purchase, vocational training, associated taxation or so many other things that the adviser herself said needed to be improved throughout this package. Today we have focused, in the same way as in the interpellation, on one of the key aspects in the electrification process, especially light vehicles, but which is closely linked to the future use of the automotive sector, i.e. in the manufacture of electric vehicle batteries, and for two main reasons: the main reason, or one of them, is that the battery in electric vehicles is the soul, the soul of the vehicle, is the key element, and within the battery, it could be said that the manufacture of cells is the central element, on which we understand that we are quite well located, and in large numbers, we said that the battery accounts for almost half the weight, price, value – even benefit – of an electric vehicle. So, whoever doesn't make batteries in the future will have it very complicated in the automotive sector. And the other important reason, too, is that the battle for the manufacture of electric vehicle batteries is taking place today both at global and intra-European level. The announcements of factory installation projects capable of producing batteries for large-scale electric vehicles, or what has come to be called gigafactories, are constantly happening. There are many projects, but they may not be enough. If we look at the recent study of the Swiss group ABB, this study told us that the capacity of battery production must increase considerably, in order to be able to meet the demand projected in the coming years. Today, Europe has a production capacity of 60 gigawatts in batteries, which is 13% of world demand, and the aspiration is, according to the strategy of the European Union, that by 2028 it is 25%. This would require having installed a production capacity of 400 gigawatts in battery, and, according to the mapping that the CIC has made, today, with what is designed so that it can be built in battery production capacity, it would be in about 300 gigawatts. So, if they were to be met or if we were to get close to the implementation targets of the electric vehicle, it might not even be enough with everything that is being projected; there could be a productive bottleneck, so we understand that the niche is obvious and the bets have to be made now. We believe that the Basque People can't stay out of this production process, and we have a lot of things on our side. Some have been mentioned: We have an elaborate industrial system in the sector, we have companies in full value, we have knowledge and ability in electrical motion, CIC myrrgiGIGE and other European research centres. As I have said, we have a strong investigation about the last generation, and we have useful areas, which consume a great deal of land, or at least we have a Araban. And we feel we can't let this opportunity pass. When we, 2016 years old, heard the first bells of the gigaphatists, we said we had to follow them. Now, both in Germany and in Sweden, they're becoming reality, and they're predicting projects in several European countries. And if we had clearly to follow these projects in 2016, it seems to us quite essential that we should succeed. And so, in the context of the European funds, when we've reflected on the strategic projects, we said that it was a project of precedence to install a factory or a gigasphere. And we also said that Araba was the best place, because of the characteristic in the Aran, wasn't it? We know that in the history of the New York, there is a project called Basquevolt, and we felt that if we are all anxious to pursue it or encourage it, it was important to encourage these projects, not only to encourage them, but to remark that it is not only possible to make a gigaphacist, but to make certain specifications. That's why we've been working all these days since we've made a suggestion, trying to attach a medium to it. And I want to thank the government as well as the PSE and EAJ's Presence before I explain it to you. I personally wish to thank Michael of the groin, for I have been in touch with him; but I feel that we have achieved a good middle course, and that our ends are fulfilled. And that which is intermediate says: the legislature protects an impulse in study and development, in the sphere of energy storage, and especially in the unions of a new generation. And it seems to us that, apart from the Balsquevolt project or the project of the Gigafatory, there are some funds enclosed in the Faculty of the Fals, which appear to us to be in detail and interesting to us. Another point is to encourage you to demand fun, to unite the public and private efforts of this country, to build a large production center of the last generation's climbers, founded on the principles of a circular economy. And what does that mean to us? Well, it means he must link the project from the layout to the recycle. Because it's important to make Batany cells, modules, battery pack In addition, we'll ask you to do the adaptations to Foru the Modal, the Abbatha, and the Gastine Town: The technological park must be increased in time and conditions for the tramital of European funds to assume the creative center of future unions. And, in this sense, we also commit ourselves as far as we are concerned, in order that it may be fulfilled. We're also asking for our friend's support, and we're providing for the financial sources needed for the use of the project, including the New Geneva European funds, and also that the Eucomon would participate in the social capital of the project and guarantee that wager, to secure and promote the general interest of the project. We feel that we must go the other way with the last experiences, and that we must succeed in rousing that project by sharing it in social capital; that engagement has also been achieved, and I find it interesting. And finally, the public institutions of this country are asked to work in order that the main motor-sectors who are in our territory should be able to implement the project. Some of them were mentioned the other day (CAF, Irizar or Nuuk), but it seems important to us to make an experiment with Mercedes, and we might even say it with Volkswagen. Then we'll see if our gigafactor is in another more important establishment, and what Navarro has said about it, but it's important to promote it. I know there's some doubt about it between other parties, whether they'll protect it or not. I encourage you to protect me, because I feel like this, somehow, puts a floor on this project that's making fun of you and that there's an engagement. And not only that, but that we are all obliged to commit, because in many institutions we shall have to defend this project, and make several adaptations, changes, or whatever it may be, to make it possible, either from the manufacture of the city, or from the finance of the case. It seems to me that we can take it as a national project, take it as a tractor project, and if we all do ours, we'll have more chance to realize this project, to make it true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u81	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, representing the Podemos Anther Group, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u82	Good morning. I will start with the final part of the amendment tabled by our group, concerning the need for a strategic plan for the car sector in Euskadi. And, in this regard, I am going to comment on something Mr Otero has already proposed, and that is that Euskadi's extreme dependence in terms of GDP and employment in the fuel vehicle manufacturing sector cannot, in our view, be replaced by a new dependence on the private vehicle sector. We're starting from that base. We believe that not all eggs can be placed in the same basket, and we believe that it is necessary to diversify. And hence our proposal for a strategic plan. The car sector suffers from overcapacity and demand for production. In 2020 851,000 vehicles were sold in Spain, 32.3% less than in 2019. I'm sure anyone could conclude that this has something to do with the pandemic, but it is that the sector was also affected in 2019, with a 4.8% drop in sales. In addition, we believe that – not that we believe – sustainable mobility policies in Europe advocate a reduction in the use of the private vehicle and bet strongly on the modal shift from the private vehicle to public mass transport, such as the train, metro, tram or bus. We believe that here Euskadi has to reflect on this issue, and that is where he wants to link the investment in electric batteries: whether it is for private vehicles or to invest in electric batteries for mass transport. When not enough electric cars are sold, we will probably waste public money on Renove plans again, to increase the demand for a mobility model that is unsustainable with the planet's biophysical limits. Today, with much of the world's population unable to acquire a private vehicle, we have semiconductor bottlenecks, geostrategic lithium fights and battery-like waste accumulation. Therefore, it is more necessary than ever to develop a strategic plan to diversify our dependence on the private vehicle and drive new market niches. It is the case of research and the manufacture of batteries, but not for the private vehicle, but, as I said, for mass transport. It would be a good idea to convince CAF, and its subsidiary Solaris, to install an electric bus factory in Euskadi instead of Poland. There is an emerging industry with regard to sustainable mobility in ships, aircraft, trains or buses without CO emissions 2 - No, no, no, We do not have to bet everything, once again, on the private car sector, even if it is electric. We understand that this is one more bet, but we must examine its feasibility and make it clear that this planet does not have the capacity to replace all electric combustion vehicles. Nor are we very clear about the scope of investment in electrical battery projects in Euskadi, as I said. And it is that another market niche of batteries is its use as energy storage and as a backup source for supply interruptions that have renewable energies such as solar or wind power. Even batteries to promote energy self-consumption: Australia or California are betting heavily on it, and in Euskadi there are hardly any projects in this area. And by commenting on another niche of the market to diversify the Basque industrial fabric around batteries and mobility, there is the whole sector related to the research of new materials and technologies to reduce the current dependence on lithium or cobalt from the outside, to discover the use of other raw materials, the reuse and recycling of batteries, even, as we have commented at the beginning, also to go towards other models – then I will comment, referring to the concrete plan that has to do with the gigastructure that wants to make electric batteries in Álava–... but we believe, basically, that a diversification plan is needed, and not just to link it to the production of electric batteries for private cars. We believe, in relation to the specific issue of the project, that it is proposed that the value chain of the Basquevolt gigafactory should establish that what has to do with the ecodesign of recycling is being carried out in Euskadi. There have also been other projects which in the Basque Country have had an innovative tractor objective, which have not resulted in a success, but rather in a failure, and in that sense we believe that it is necessary, before embarking on a product of these characteristics, to make a feasibility plan, which would be the first of the points to which I referred. But, going specifically to the question, we believe that there are doubts as to the possibility, for example, that Mercedes or other tractor companies in our territory could be mentioned for collaboration and participation; because, in fact, Mercedes already has seven suppliers of electric batteries, including a German company called Farasis, and we believe that it will be politically complicated for Mercedes-Benz to prioritise Basque batteries to the German ones in this regard, although efforts will have to be made in this regard. On the other hand, it is also an operation that has to do with the gigafactory that addresses the entire value chain, which is what I intended to say before; but, in fact, the initiative has a much larger entity that is linked to Battchain, which is a much broader initiative, in which autonomous communities, in addition to the Basque, participate, and which, in that sense, even this is still to be determined, and what its involvement would be, if it were finally developed and if it would have room in Basque. We believe – and I say it again – that, both because of the impact on employment and because of environmental policy, that linking the convergence of combustion cars to electric battery cars as a tractor objective in Euskadi can be an economic lever option; but it should not be the only one, nor should it be the fundamental one. We believe that a strategic plan should address this issue to other market niches that are already being addressed in other countries, as I mentioned in the first part of my speech, in order to diversify and link job losses to sectors such as those I was commenting on, so that jobs are not lost, and that Mr Otero mentioned as a risk of real possibility. And then, with regard to the specific project itself that is being proposed, it must be said that, today, as I said, there are still serious doubts, in the end, not of its goodness with regard to the possibility of generating economic leverage in the territory, but that there are still serious doubts as to whether we would be able to link this investment with private companies that might be interested; that is, there is, today, no knowledge as to whether Mercedes or other car companies would be willing to cooperate or to buy or accept the offer that would be made by this gigafactory. And in that sense, due to the lack of data on this, we intended to make a preliminary feasibility plan, so that what has already happened with respect to other projects does not happen, and so that, based on an investment bubble, also self-referenced in studies of major consultants, as mentioned, of venture capital, we do not, once again, incur loss of public money, in what has to do with the design and promotion of a project that then ends in nothing profitable. And there are practical examples, in recent years, of this. Our group will, in principle, abstain from the proposal, because we have made two approaches in the negotiation process with regard to the compromise, and in this regard we appreciate Mr Otero's willingness to try to reach an agreement in this regard. We see the need, as I said, for a strategic plan that diversifys the sector and does not place everything on the issue of gigafactory, and that point has not been addressed. Nor did it seem to us that it was difficult, because we believe that there would be agreement on the need to address it, because in the first part of his speech Mr Otero has commented, more niches, apart from this one. And, on the other hand, what we understand has also aroused the non-agreement has to do with linking the opportunity of gigafactory with a feasibility plan, and we believe that it should not be a problem to do so. Then, in any case, we will abstain because we do not intend to oppose the project either. Basically, as I said, we believe that the model to which mobility has to go in Europe and in our country, as far as the construction or production of electric batteries is concerned, should be more aligned with what has to do with mass mobility than with cars or private vehicles, which we believe will gradually go down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u83	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u84	Thank you, Madam President. The motion we are debating today is in some way linked to previous debates, in which we have already sufficiently highlighted the importance and concern for the Basque car sector, the need to anticipate the radical changes that are taking place in this sector, such as the issue of autonomous vehicles, the desirability of being properly placed in the new electric car market, and, in particular, the need to take the lead in the manufacture of batteries. We face the difficult task of converting one of the main productive sectors of Euskadi in time, ensuring future employment and, at the same time, maintaining current employment. And what's at stake is very important. In Euskadi, as we all know, in this sector we have more than 300 companies, which make up some EUR 18 billion and 40,000 indirect jobs. A barbarity. The changes that will take place will have a huge impact on the entire population, both economically and socially. And it is true that many of the car's components are not going to undergo significant changes due to the introduction of the electric car, such as the metal components of the body or the wheels themselves. But other components have been evolving for years. And, by the way, in Euskadi we already have innovative and leading companies in systems, for example, braking systems or smart adaptation dampers, such as those manufactured in Ermua, for example. To them, these changes are not taken by surprise, nor are they going to look like a radical revolution; they have been moving and adapting to the changes for years. But, in particular, what we are discussing today is the desirability of driving a gigafactory of batteries for electric vehicles. First, let's look at the world panorama: The race to set up battery plants has become a real fever all over the world. For the time being, in this global race, China ranks first, with a share of more than 63 % of the market share, followed by Europe from afar, with a share of 15 %. And, thirdly is the United States, with a third position in the ranking startups In Europe, as has already been said, there are currently, but it is true that about 15 projects are going on every day, seeking to eliminate the dependence of Asian manufacturers by 2025, producing cells for about 6 million electric vehicles per year. Among the 15 battery cell factory projects in Europe are those in Northvolt, Sweden and Germany, that of the Chinese manufacturer CATL in Germany, the second floor of the South Korean company SK Innovation in Hungary, the Tesla mega-factory in Berlin, which will assemble 500,000 cars annually and which will be the largest in the world, according to Elon Musk, his CEO. Volkswagen is one of the strongest brands that is betting on the electric car and has already announced that it will have six battery plants by 2030, one of which could be in Spain. And could it be in Euskadi? In order for this to be possible, we have to face a few challenges. There are a few problems to solve: The first is the availability of raw material. Lithium and cobalt are very scarce and expensive materials, and all battery plants seek to be located near the mines of these materials. And here we don't have this. That's a bit of an overrun on his transport. On the other side of the value chain, you need customers, customers at OEM level, willing to buy and mount the manufactured batteries on your vehicle. It's true that here we could look towards Mercedes, but I don't know if there's been any contacts and I don't know how Mercedes breathes about it. But we don't have much more chances either... Irrigate? Well, there's not much chance. But the great challenge posed by a gigafactory is technology, at least today. By simplifying the question, we could say that the current batteries are liquid; that is, they have the days counted, because what is going to replace them is the solid electrolyte technology, and that is going to be the future. The problem with this technology is that it is not yet mature enough to think of a factory for it. As we all know, cars have several problems today, electric cars: their price, their autonomy, the slowness of their load... But all these problems have a common denominator: batteries. The current lithium ion batteries have been able to improve a lot; Tesla has managed to improve a lot. But this technology has important limitations, which have made us all look back at solid-state batteries. And solid electrolyte is a secret, to date, among manufacturers. We know, for example, that John Goodenough's research uses a crystal electrolyte that would facilitate its serial manufacture. But there are other teams working with other types of materials, such as gold nanowires, wrapped in manganese and immersed in a gel. Toyota, for its part, keeps in secret what solid material is being used in its trials. That is why, at present, we do not have any electric vehicles that use solid state batteries, because the technology is not yet mature. But, no doubt, it will be the energy storage technology in the near future, the solid state technology, which will produce us far superior to the energy storage and, above all, on the issue of security. And on the security issue, it's not unimportant. Let us remember the accident at Boeing 777, which occurred precisely because of this problem of safety of liquid electrolyte batteries. However, this technology here is not yet available. Professor John Kilner, CIC Energy Advisor, tells us: "Research and development for these batteries to provide viable prototypes will take a few more years." He says, "Maybe, three to five." Therefore, solid electrolyte batteries are very promising; but, today, it is not a mature technology to think about the construction of a gigafactory in 2021. Not yet... It is time to increase research efforts and develop a viable prototype. Then, try the prototype, that this works, and from there, deploy, together with automotive companies, the strategy to design the process and define the product. This is the way. If we invest 707 million euros in the construction of a gigafactory, according to the information supplied to Bildu in January 2021, without being clear what we have to make in it, we run the risk of making the mistakes we made in the past with Hiriko, with Epsilon Euskadi... Do you remember? I mean, let this point be made clear, because our position here is very clear. We do not oppose the construction of a gigafactory; but when the principal investigator says that we have to wait a few years to have a viable prototype, we will have to make a little case and not start the house on the roof. It is clear, and it is accepted internationally, that the current lithium ion technology is not sufficient for the needs of electric vehicles, but there are a number of technologies that are struggling to replace it, and the problem is that we are not yet clear what it is. The solid state battery, moreover, is an alternative that seems to be winning, but neither do we know how this issue will end. Therefore, betting on a type of battery can do us good if it is the technology that is imposed in the future or it can do us wrong if that technology is not finally adopted by the manufacturers. Here I always remember Sony because he was the protagonist of two sonorous technological failures that will remain for history. I don't know if you'll remember the MiniDiscs, and also the Beta format videos. Thousands of millions were invested in a technology that, if adopted, would have positioned Sony as market leader, but it was not, and the losses in monetary terms – but also in jobs – were immense. It is important, therefore, to innovate and invest in solid state batteries, but more important is to listen to the manufacturers and work with their hand, to ensure that we are going the right way. Meanwhile, here we have a project that is committed by the solid state battery factory, Basquevolt, proposed as a public-private project, because it cannot be otherwise, in collaboration between the EVE and a good group of companies. Initially, in collaboration with the Basque Research and Technology Alliance, and with funding of 707 million euros, 217 of which should come from European funds. But according to the information sent by the Government on this subject, in response to a request from the proponent group, we observed a number of concerns: funds were requested for the years 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024, when Next Generation projects can only be requested until 2023. In 2021, EUR 15 million is supposed to be invested in the gigafactory, and I have nothing clear about what or where or how. Anyway, I'm afraid that information today is zero euros. They intend to get another 280 million euros from the Innovation Fund, starting in 2022, but I'm afraid this is another toast to the sun. On 8 April, from our parliamentary group, we asked again for more information, not because we did not believe this, but because we know that sometimes when we ask for different information comes different answer, and indeed it is so; in which it arrived we were told that the need for Next funds was reduced from 217 million euros to eight. Well, then we continue in the second round... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u86	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Indeed, the commitment of the Energy and Sustainable Mobility Plan of the European Union, as well as the recently approved Spanish Climate Change Act, pose a paradigm shift in mobility, over a 20-year horizon, in which vehicles that generate CO emissions cannot be sold. 2 and, from 2050, they will not be able to circulate either. Electric and hybrid cars are still a minority in Euskadi and Europe, but it is true that their number does not stop growing, and no one doubts that the future is theirs, even though there is already a bottleneck in Europe at the moment, because there are no battery plants. And we Socialists have pointed this out on several occasions, because we start from the recognition of the automotive sector as a strategic sector, as also proposed by the Spanish Government and the Basque Government. A sector which, moreover, is very well positioned in the field of technology; it is a benchmark and is at the forefront in Europe. And I think we should welcome the agreement reached between the various parliamentary groups, because we were starting from an inquiry in which there were many coincidences in the analysis. And there is also a previous work by the Basque Government in that energy bet that Bildu put forward in his initiative. And that is why we Socialists highlight three important aspects of this agreement: first, the drive for R & D in the field of energy storage and, specifically, in new generation materials. Secondly, support for the construction of a large-scale state-of-the-art battery production centre in Miñano, based on principles of circular economy. Thirdly, support for the Basque Government in the search for funding, both through European funds and through its participation in the social capital of the project. And we have also agreed on the necessary involvement in this project of the main companies in the automotive sector of the country and the competent institutions, in order to achieve this expansion of the Technological Park of Miñano in which to implement the gigafactory. And, to date, the materials with which batteries are manufactured come from Asia, mainly China, and the European Union cannot lose this competitive train. The Chinese government's 2015 bet with the Made in China 2025 programme, with which it wanted to boost the restructuring and development of its industrial sector, being one of its main lines of intervention the production of alternative energy vehicles. On the other hand, in Europe the bet did not take place until October 2017, when the European Alliance of Batteries was launched, to reduce this dependence on imports of products from Asia. And this market will have an estimated annual value of up to 25 billion euros by 2025. Among the priority actions of this European Alliance of Batteries are: safe access to battery raw materials, produced in a sustainable manner and at a reasonable cost, and also making Europe the world leader in battery technology, among other things. Nor will the plants in Hungary or Berlin be the largest gigafactories in Europe. Intalvolt announced, three months ago, an investment of 4 billion euros to build a gigafactory with an area of 300,000 square meters and an initial annual capacity of 45 gigawatts/hour, which could reach even 70 gigawatts/hour, giving employment to 4,000 workers directly and with a first phase in the project planned to be completed in the spring of 2024. And here in Euskadi, the PERTE Basquevolt Gigafactory appears as one of the projects that will complement the value chain of the electric vehicle in Spain, through the manufacture of solid state batteries in the territory. And thus contribute to this European strategy to reach 25% of the world market share in batteries in 2028, which Mr Otero commented. And it is thus defined as a strategic project, a country project for the development of its own technology, in the face of China's current technological dependency. The Basquevolt factory will provide state-owned OEM cells as well as other gigafactories across Europe. To this end, industry 4.0, digitisation, recycling and a second life for batteries will be promoted. The Basquevolt project is part of the Battchain project, led by Innoenergy Iberia, and has been presented in the expression of interest called Impulse of projects tractors of competitiveness and industrial sustainability This value chain includes extraction and conversion of raw material, lithium; production of up to ten gigawatts of cells; manufacture of battery packs And the objectives of Basquevolt Gigagactory are: to increase the competitiveness of the supply chain of components of the electric vehicle; to impact on that value chain of energy storage, automobile, manufacturers of electrical equipment and other components of raw materials recycling. Another objective is to strengthen the electronic power industry and the deployment of renewable energy; to provide the automotive and electrical equipment industry with a decisive competitive advantage, given the penetration of Asian countries into their value chain. And, therefore, Euskadi presented, at the end of last year, two manifestations of interest: one, on lithium ion batteries, and another gigafactory project with new generation batteries. For the construction of the battery plant, the Basque Government has requested the extension of the Álava Technology Park in Miñano, because at least 100,000 square meters are needed; hence we urge, in this agreement to which we have reached, the competent institutions to approve this extension. One of the keys to implanting the plant in Álava is the location in Miñano of the CIC energiGUNE and the development of its research lines in the construction and testing of the solid battery, key in its application to automotive. The CIC ENERGIGUNE stands out for its capacity in the manufacture of battery cells, and forms a consortium with several companies from different communities, to close the entire process of extraction of raw materials for the construction of cells, assembly of batteries and recycling of them once exhausted. This is why it is important to link this project with the Spanish consortium Battchain, in a collaborative line of work with important companies and other communities, such as Extremadura and Navarra. The project comprises the entire scale of value, from the extraction of lithium in Extremadura to the construction of cells in Basquevolt, the assembly of batteries in Navarra and the recycling of charging units, once their first life is exhausted. The members of the Battchain Consortium have for several years been developing technologies and also profiling business models to implement economically viable and sustainable industrial projects over time. For this reason, another important agreement is that of supporting the Basque Government in the search for financing of the project, both through these European funds Next Generation and by participating in social capital to consolidate this project, mainly to collaborate and get the roots and guarantee the general interest. The gigafactory projects in Europe and Spain are and will be a focus of opportunity, because the forecast is that the demand for batteries in 2030 is 75 gigawatts. Europe contemplates up to 30 gigafactories projects, which could be under way before 2026, and the territorial struggle in the state – and some spokesmen who have already spoken to me –... that struggle in the state for having two or three gigafactories is going to be hard, very hard, because they will take into account the proximity to lithium deposits, the location in automotive centers or the involvement even of the institutions, and you have to position yourself well to obtain the desired results. And in Euskadi we have capabilities, and we have important opportunities. It should therefore be borne in mind that more than 80% of the largest, larger Basque companies will be affected by the propulsion system, the powertrain drivetrain This project is therefore a technological challenge, in which important players in the Basque industry are already involved. There is a participatory commitment from several important companies, and hence it is necessary to work and involve the main companies also in the automotive sector of the country. That is why I am grateful for the disposition of Euskal Herria Bildu's agreement; for this will undoubtedly strengthen that project. We hope that it will be brought to a successful conclusion and that it will enable us to cope with the transformations that are going to make of levers in the economic, social and territorial recovery of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Congressmaster, ma'am, Congressman, good day. Mr. Otero, it's perfect, isn't it? Dialecticly there are two planes in politics: the one is the plan of the fancy, the other is the work of reality. We, on the second plane, are more connected with reality, because we are in the government, and you, being in opposition, give more weight to the fancy or respect. And sometimes, when you take a step from the first to the second, from the fancy to reality, you have difficulty in taking care, for instance, about PTS, etc., but in this case you have made an engagement which we did not quite foresee. In fact, we've been trying to open the Miñana park several times, and we've had a vote against all opposition, and there's some companies in the gigaphatory project that don't like you very much. But you've gone beyond that, you've made an engagement exercise, and I celebrate it, and I think you also win on that dynamic. It's important to change the subbanistic regulations, and important enough to strengthen the project itself. But there is one point which is even stronger than the political constituency, and here you have mentioned another chance, and it is to keep me among us from 2011. My Lady-in-law is a treasure, my son-in-law is a key that will make the project possible. Because, beyond the political consensus that we have achieved today, which is very important for the project, especially for urban change in the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, what gives this government strength is that, that word that is a little pompous that we use a lot here, that is ecosystem I don't know if we're all fully aware of what we have in energy. ENERGIGUNE is in the top three of Europe's energy storage technology centres, and it is the most important in numbers – in numbers I will now give – in terms of publications; they have 600 publications in the previous year, which I will take as a reference, 13 patents registered in 2019, and already participates in the two main lines of research in Europe, which are the Batteries Europe and Battery 2030+. This means that Portugal, with approximately 14 million inhabitants, has nothing like it. The rest of the state has nothing like it. Italy has nothing like... We have him in Euskadi. And I believe that it is a strategy and a project that has been going on for ten years and that the efforts of both the Basque Government and the companies, as well as Cegasa and others, that generate that culture, that knowledge, that know-how, that know-how should be valued. ENERGIGUNE is a center that represents, like no other, the industrial technological development model of Euskadi, which is a small but ready dog strategy. We are very small in the world, and what we do is locate niches and, once we have located a niche where you don't compete only with price, and I'm going to theatricalize a little bit, the government meets with the companies and what it does is to tell the company: well, look, as you don't want to merge – I'm theatricalizing –... as you don't want to merge, what we're going to do is to partially outsource R & D to equip it with greater muscle and to create synergies in a center, for example, like energy, but also in the automotive sector, where Podemos and PP, the center of Boroa and more... So, it's a very smart way to create synergies between companies to compete in R & D with the giants in the world, especially in basic research, which is the least frequent in companies, because it's – let's say – more desirable for them and more accessible to devote to the immediate, the next stack model or the next car model. We talk here often, and the discussion is always the same, and the left one always says that what the Government has to do is to tie up the foundation of the corporations, to have a public part in all the companies, in all the strategic companies. And we're on tour today, and we're gonna have centers like my RIVI, in our own town, because companies want to be among us. Because now we know, and it's almost always the way it is, the capital has no limits. Our tools are therefore to encourage and encourage the centers of inquiry, to offer resources to education, to establish a prudent prosecution, and to encourage and enlarge the value of public industry and industry in society. I mean, as I said before, strengthen the ecosystem. And as far as the gigasphere is concerned, it's a very nice project. Basquevolt, the project that comes here, is a very fine project, maybe there may be changes, because there is also a private part here that will have to decide according to its interests; but, in principle, bring in mineral from the extremation, and apply everything which has been studied in Miñaon, as the battery has well said, the most substantial part of business, as far as wealth and marble, and then, take our brothers to the naf, put them in, and sell them there. And once sold to Tafalla, and again to recycle it. Therefore, it is a perfect play, which encompasses all trending topics And it is that the industry – most, I hope, is already at that stage – must be helped to think that this is not future, that it is present. All those arguments that seemed current six months, eight months ago, that the oil companies won't let their business slip away, that there are lobbies The People's Party and Podemos have put forward a point of view that, for me, it is something like "in order not to fail you don't have to try", and you have to study all the costs... Of course we have to study all the costs. But this is called a business adventure. I'm done. The idea I want to convey today is that the first stone of the hypothetical future gigafactory in Miñano was put by the Basque Government and the companies involved in energy 10 years ago, in that energy. And this is a further milestone in that strategically oriented trajectory towards a niche market that was already seen 10 years ago, because we know that renewable energies have the problem of supply intermittence and, therefore, it was seen that storage capacities had to be improved to make renewable energies more important in the energy mix. In fact, it can be said that today's debate is one more milestone; today's debate is not as big, perhaps, as the first stone that was put into energy. But it is an important milestone that passes through a political consensus, which will make it possible for up to 10,000 jobs to be created indirectly in Araba, and in the rest of Euskadi, too, which is quite news. Finally, we want to explain or the thesis I've been trying to explain to you is that the first stone of the construction of the Istanbul potential gigafactorium was placed 10 years ago when the center of my head battery was established 10 years ago in Miñano. And since that time, in 10 years of study and research, research has done a great work, which we can now apply, not just by company, but by means of this gigasphere. And we honor and celebrate this day, meeting the Basque Country in this agreement, in the execution of this fancy project that will create 10,000 jobs inside the Basquevolt strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u89	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The next round of the band that hasn't issued any corrections, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. In the coming months, in the coming years, almost immediate, we play the future of entire generations. There is no doubt that we are in a historic moment, a turning point for the Basque Country, for the rest of Spain and also for the West in general. After World War II, our parents had an obligation to build a new world. Today, when that model seems to come to an end, it is up to us to take the step and transform ourselves to remain at the forefront. Having said that, of course we support the installation of the gigafactory. Álava plays it more than ever to this project, because the future that awaits us, moreover, is nothing flattering. We support the current economic crisis with the lung of public money. But when that is over, there will only be one way for us: to repay the debt, thanks to our ability to generate wealth, or to ruin ourselves for having lost the train of history. The crisis of COVID-19 has shown us that the fragility of our productive system is remarkable, and that we cannot stand still, seeing how other nations are strengthening while we are gradually falling behind. In Vox we defend our national industry; we want to strengthen it at all costs, and we are determined to make Spain a reference again. That is why we must not fail to regret the disastrous management of the Government of the nation, which has turned the matter of funds into a race between self-governments. There's no plan, there's no programs... There's no captain running the ship. Today there are at least 10 autonomies fighting for this project. And this is the key issue. Well, if we're a reference in Spain, it's in the car industry. Not in vain we are in the top 10 of the world's manufacturers. In this sense, Álava has a favourable strategic position, close to the Renault, Volkswagen and Mercedes plants, as well as the infrastructures necessary to supply many more factories if necessary, something that, of course, we should also push afterward. We have a chance. And I think we can go back to being a clear and vertebrating point for the rest of Spain. We can't give it up. Having said that, in Vox we will celebrate if that gigafactory is installed in Alava. The only thing we do not agree on is that the Government is involved and is a partner in this project. We have precedents for what happens in these cases: when the government intervenes with its capital, we can generally run out of money and businesses.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u91	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In answer time, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u92	Arruabarrena jauna, María Isabelek esango lukeen moduan: "Don't touch my palms, that I know myself"... You mentioned the oil and reality. Check out the position everyone has. If you want to talk about it for a year or two years, we'll see which is closer to reality. I have no doubt. You're not near reality. And another little shade: You say we don't like companies and they're in here. No, we don't like companies, we like them, we like them, we like them, we don't like them, and it's a different matter, so you can be clear. Mr. Soto, a couple of notes, not in the mood to convince you, beyond reasonable reason, huh? But I think there's some, I don't know if there's any confusion or... You're talking all the time about betting on electrification of the private vehicle. And we understand that this doesn't have to be like this. I want to say that, in general, the reflections you made on the changes in mode, mass transport, etc., the lower use of vehicles, or the lower existence of private vehicles in the future, we share that. But you have to bear in mind that, today, according to the Energy Council Observatory, the special edition that the Basque Energy Agency has taken out, we have 1,371,000 vehicles, and we have more than 300,000, for example, between motorcycles and small trucks and delivery vans, etc. That is to say, if in the future we are going to share mobility, for example, or last-mile distribution vehicles, which have been mentioned here, all this will also have to be electrified, beyond the change of mode that may be, or beyond the overcoming in part of the private vehicle model. I understand that the gigafactory project has to attend to electrification of the mobile park in general, or at least the light mobile park, also buses, why not? "Irizar is in the middle," but it doesn't have to affect what you were saying. As for the strategic plan and others that you said, I think it goes a little beyond the framework. We came to talk about a specific issue. We understand that the gigafactory project needs an impulse, it needs an impulse now, in the context of the processing and negotiation of Next Generation funds. We understand this is the time. I mean, I've seen him share with the PP and with Citizens that reticence of "because it's not clear if there are some companies going to join; it's not clear if it's the best option." Well, what we asked of you in this motion, this transactional, is that exactly what we do is a bet for, a bet for! And it's going to develop. And Mr. Gil Vegas also said that this can happen, that it is not right with the concrete technology that will succeed in the future. But that is happening to everyone, and the bet has to be made equally and the bets are being made equally. I mean, you can't have... This isn't gonna be fixed. And in addition, at the rate that technology is evolving in storage, and in the specific case of electrical materials... In fact, I believe that the gigafactory that is intended to be installed within Battchain's global project or whatever, is not thought of as a concrete final technology. Because this project can begin to build modularly, so that you could even start with the current liquid lithium ion batteries, then switch to solid state batteries. But the CIC is already developing even the next ones that exceed lithium, because it is a pioneer and has the number one research in sodium batteries. Today we are talking about metal-air batteries; we are talking about a lot of evolution, which is going to be in constant technological development. But what is important at the moment is to create the energy storage production center through large-scale battery. That's what's at stake. And then you'll have that center... or we will all strive to ensure that this centre has the capacity to adapt and evolve to the technology it will need. Or do you think the gigafactory that is building Northvolt in Sweden will always be building the same thing? No, because that's evolving into forced marches. We understand that it is time to bet and it is time to climb up. Risks? Obviously, there is always. You're making sure all OEMs are joining us? There aren't either. Enough market and need to electrify, at least the entire fleet of non-heavy vehicles, is there, and we believe that we must make that bet. And I, as the last reflection, to the sects that maintain the Government: I think the agreement today is important, because of the project we've agreed to, and the terms of the development of the project. And from humility, he won't solve everything, but it's interesting. And I think this is what makes all these projects for themselves, even though CIC myrrgiGUN 2011. In the year, as you have said, he was impressed. And this, even this feeling of its own project, obliges us, and obliges us to make a defence of it, and binds us to it. And it seems to me, too, that it shows a way, and a wider work, or that we ought to include it even in a larger work. Because these times are crucial, this decade is crucial, and we've been trying to reflect this discussion of the European funds all the time. We think we should establish the main challenges of our people. We must set up missions to ourselves, agree, make ourselves feel them all, and then develop them, and when we develop that mission, push a project like this. It's clear that the auto-hiding transition is clear in the mythical, but that's why, mission...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u93	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u94	...that I agree with them, and the doors and windows must be opened, the tables must be placed, just as the whole process of European funds has not been made. What we have brought here is not willingly, because we have a desire to bring it here, but because we have found no other table to make this agreement and a more extensive agreement. So...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u95	Thank you, Mr. Otero...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u96	Okay, I'm sorry. Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u97	Thank you... Together Podemos... Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u98	Thank you, Mr. Otero, for your efforts... I have to say that we do not oppose the project – I said this in my first speech – but we do believe that there are obvious doubts about its short, medium and long-term success, especially in the long term. We think a project... because, here, the representative of the Socialist Party and the representative of the PNV have come to explain to us what Battchain basically makes about its business model and about its value chain in the production of these batteries, and here the doubts that exist is as to whether or not this chain will eventually be produced. That is, the intention exists; but, today, we do not know whether, indeed, in Extremadura, the necessary lithium will be obtained for this operation. Obviously, we understand from the Basque Government's bet that battery cells will be built here, and their assembly and recycling in Navarre is also in doubt. What is not in doubt, today, is that the only customer who has expressed interest in the purchase of these batteries is the company Sovic de Sevilla, which manufactures small vehicles for the distribution of last mile goods, as has been said. That is basically the clear certainty that it does exist with regard to this value chain and the subsequent sale of the product. And taking into account that this is basically the information we have at the moment, given that there is no intention to carry out a feasibility plan that addresses the opportunity or not of this project, what we are surprised is that what we do know is that what is going to produce this gigafactory is 10,000 jobs. That is said and very quickly; it is said that 10,000 jobs will be generated with this project. With regard to the model, we do believe that when addressing a project with such dimensions, we need to talk about the need for a strategic plan that addresses the diversification of the sector. We don't think that... beyond that this can be a concrete project, it allows to face the current mobile park, although we believe that this gigafactory is going to be more linked to the export than to the replacement of the mobile park. In any case, I must say that, if it is directed towards that, it can be a way, but we believe that there should be so many others and that in order to support it we should know whether the Basque Government is going to explore other projects that will accompany it, because, if not, putting all the eggs in the same basket, we find it worrying if, in addition, they have to do with the conversion of the fleet of combustion vehicles to this model, believing, as you share, Mr Otero, that the future – and, moreover, as the objectives set by the European Union – goes through the conversion to mass vehicles; that is, public transport vehicles, and in this case yes, with batteries of these characteristics. I wish we could go in that direction too in Euskadi, and we believe that this should be a bet and that the need for this strategic plan could also have been raised, I say. It's kind of shocking to us. We are convinced that, for your part, Mr Otero, it would have been something that could have been accepted. It is, on the one hand, the viability plan, because we believe that, in the end, if there are so many assurances that this project is virtually successful, what prevents an analysis of the opportunities and the need or not to go in that direction, and if, together, efforts by the Basque Government should be focused on other projects, also taking into account that we are currently trying to receive funding from European funds? Let us therefore try to make that strategic plan, which comes late – we have already claimed it on more than one occasion, but which comes late – because now, if we strategically do not address new niches of conversion in this sense, we will hardly be able to achieve the objectives that we should cover in the medium term. Nor do we believe, on the other hand, that the entire existing mobile park should be replaced. I suppose there will also be agreement in that, that basically what needs to be done is to drastically reduce it, and what remains, if any, should be the minimum possible – as far as the private vehicle is concerned – in that case, it would be electric. But, finally, I think that addressing the issue as a direct transfer from combustion vehicles to electric batteries and, then, calculating the need in the market for so many electric batteries by so many mobile vehicles is a little tricky, because our approach, in the medium and long term, is to stop so much need for a private vehicle. To the extent that there is not so much need for a private vehicle, there will be less need for electric batteries if necessary, because these too are finite with regard to environmental resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u99	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arruabarrena, it is not a question of not trying to fail; it is a question of doing well. Look, let it not be for us; we're going to vote yes to the project, we're going to vote yes to your transaction. But I also have to tell you that we're going to vote with our fingers crossed. In our way of understanding, the way to do things right on this subject would be, first, to investigate technology in collaboration with universities and companies, to define a viable prototype and a clear manufacturing process; then, to make a good deal with manufacturers, that is, with customers and, finally, to set up the factory. Right now, the proposal skips the first three steps, and asks for 707 million, according to the November 30th dossier – and with new data from yesterday, 882 – to mount a gigafactory without being clear either the product or the process. I mean, that's one of the first problems we see. And, I repeat, we will vote yes, but it would be good for you to take those observations into account, so that we all do not mess up, because here there is more than reasonable risks. This is not just a question of betting, because, of course, it is easy to bet on those levels of investment with other people's dough. This sounds like a pharaonic project, which needs to be done with great care. And I agree: energy is very valuable. Okay. Well, let's hear what he says. And what he's telling us is that technology isn't yet mature and we have to wait three to five years. So, it's okay to try, but, it's that I look at failure!, because it's not free, and here we're not playing little money. About the location. I understand that the proposal to make the factory in Vitoria responds to the idea of supplying the batteries to Mercedes. But, if, I repeat, the agreement with Mercedes is not closed; it is difficult; I do not know if it will be possible to achieve it. And the location should contemplate the lowest possible logistics costs for export, which will surely be where the batteries end up being sold. For example, we should have a good connection by rail and sea. That is why our group has tabled an amendment, which it urges is to lead and increase research funding. That is, to start doing things from the beginning: in new materials and technologies leading to the manufacture of electric vehicles, with greater autonomy, greater security, etc. We propose, on the other hand, to encourage public-private collaboration between the different actors in Euskadi, in order to make the Autonomous Community a relevant actor in the supply of the different components, bearing in mind that batteries are not for nothing alone; they have to be mounted on vehicles. And if the vehicle manufacturers don't buy them... I mean, it's not enough with the argument of saying "they're going to be missing," and it seems that, as there aren't enough, they're going to buy all that there is. This isn't like that. Today we are missing, but there are 30 gigafactory projects in Europe, and in four days, when we want to have the factory done, there will be no shortage. And at that point, if that hasn't developed at the hands of the manufacturers, we'll probably have problems in the medium and long term. Note that the logistical cost of a battery of an electric car is very relevant, due to the weight of the batteries and the difficulty of transport. Therefore, in the design phase, it is essential to take into account the site. Moreover, in terms of recycling, we should take into account that the components of batteries, such as lithium or cobalt, are highly polluting. They have difficult recycling processes, and are dangerous when storing them. And these are issues that need to be taken into account when selecting the location well. Because it is done, or can be done, or is being done elsewhere in Europe, at very high costs. Existing environmental requirements and needs must be studied to ensure that the components are recycled more efficiently, avoiding landfilling. However – I repeat – we will vote in favour of the proposal, because it seems to us to have been drafted in appropriate terms. And let's hope everything goes well...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u101	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u102	Yes, President. With your permission, from the seat, because I think you have to finish with a couple of brushes. First, it should be noted that no one has asked for a blank cheque from any parliamentary group, on the subject of gigafactory and its creation, and its consolidation in the technological polygon of Miñano. It's true that doubts are logical. The doubts are reasonable and legitimate, because there is much to do, much to decide... But this has been the subject of many years in Europe; this is already a political and economic strategy, in which I believe we should not miss this train, because, if not, we would have no way of fitting in, or fitting in, in the near future, which is that of the electric vehicle. There is also proactive work from the Basque Government, which has been carried out for many years, with involved actors, with companies, with research centres, innovation centres and technological centres, and it seems to me that we should not lose the opportunity to apply everything they know and everything they have done so far. We have a chance today. Today's the chance! That future is already being played out, and therefore we need to take advantage of those Next Generation funds to really give this project the opportunity. A project that, moreover, is not unique or exclusive. This belongs to a set of 13 projects, which are incardinated in the Euskadi Next and which are going to work from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan of the Government of Spain. And of these 13 projects, 5 are PERTE; 5 are strategic recovery and economic transformation projects. So, I think this is the time. And that's why I think we couldn't miss this train. I would ask: let us not throw stones at our own roof. Let us become competitive; let us know how to sell ourselves well, and let us know how to do things well and then sell them. Because our competitors are doing it. Because in this we can't go neither naive nor lonely. That is why, truly, I am grateful for Euskal Herria Bildu's willingness to reach an agreement. I am also grateful for Mr Gil's position in supporting this compromise amendment. I think the bet is more than economic. This is a future bet. This is a transformation bet to get to be a lever and have an economic, social and territorial recovery in Euskadi, which, along with other projects similar to this one, I hope we can get in a short space of time. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Bareas, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u104	Excuse me, ma'am. Well, no... Today is not the time to touch any palms, Mr. Otero... Jarrera edo position herdugarria daukazue kasu honetan. Eta, beraz, it's more like applauding them, okay? Eta, bigarrenik, esan behar at joka bazabiltzate, atea zabalduk duela –imajinatzen dut – Gobernuak, edo, seguru nago Gobernuak ateak zabalduk diskizuetela. Who I am going to touch some palm is the People's Party-Citizens and Podemos, who I notice with a little leprechaun. And it's that, in the case of Podemos, this mentality of "until we have it all tied up, we're not going to move forward on the project"... Well, it's that the Euskadi Next, Mrs. Corcuera said, the Euskadi Next is yesterday. And the train passes now. And I do trust the measurement and risk assessment that all the companies that accompany the project do; these I do trust. I also trust that of the government, but I trust very much that they do business. Therefore, the level of uncertainty surrounding this project seems to be similar to that of any other business project, because total certainty in companies knows that it does not exist. And, Mr Gil, you have left your position until the last moment: you are going to vote in favour. You are in favour of gigafactories in general. On 1 March, they submitted an initiative to the Senate requesting or urging the Government to present the gigafactories project in three autonomous communities, in Galicia, Catalonia and Extremadura; they have been forgotten by Álava. Maybe because the one who asked for it was a senator from Segovia, a Javier Maroto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u105	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Mists? Mist must not speak. After discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Middle Amendment signed by Eukal Socialists and Eucabertists, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; 75; the supporters, 69; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 6; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-20.u106	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
