ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. on the first point of our agenda, we have a small amendment, for a lamentable reason: a colleague, PSD Member, Mrs Odete Silva, has died. I present to the whole family, on behalf of my own family and of the whole Bureau, condolences. So we will start our work with vote No 42 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of PSD Member Odete Silva ( PSD ). I ask the Secretary, Mrs Emilia Santos, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Odete Silva, born in the city of Porto, on September 18, 1971, Deputy to the Assembly of the Republic in the current and previous legislation, left us today, on March 10, 2016. Extreme mother, dedicated wife, combative and supportive woman, friend and companion, left us with a last exemplary act of courage in the fight against the disease that unfortunately had to face. From early on he devoted himself to the public cause, embracing political but also civic projects. Currently, he was President of the Political Committee of Vila Franca de Xira PSD, member of the Municipal Assembly of that municipality and President of the Director of Volunteer Firefighters of the Póvoa de Santa Iria. Odete Silva had rare qualities of character, he was a whole person, gentle, cheerful, deeply generous and always attentive to the needs of others. We will always remember your contagious smile and your companionship. Anyone with it has failed to feel-CL-will always be privileged. With its departure, the Country, Parliament, the municipality of Vila Franca de Xira and the Social Democratic Party lost an exceptional woman. His friends, who were many, lost an irreplaceable companion. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, recalls the memory of Odete Maria Loureiro da Silva and presents to his family the deepest and most sincere condolences".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I'm asking everyone for a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, it is also important to assess and vote on a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Articles 4. the, paragraph 1 ( c ) and 20. paragraph 1 ( a) of the Statute of Members of the European Parliament and of the Economic and Social Committee of the United Nations ( PS ) is replaced by João Gouveia, with effect from 10 March 2016, including. The opinion is for the purpose of the suspension of the required mandate and the corresponding replacement is to be admitted, as legal requirements have been found. The opinion is under consideration, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask the Secretary, Mrs Emília Santos, to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November, corrected by the Declaration of Amendment No 4 / 2006 of 16 January, and amended by Laws No 78 / 2013 of 21 November, and 34 / 2014 of 19 June, establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAM ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; Bill No 139 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extend the Arsenal do Alfeite, SA, and establish its reintegration into the marine organic ( BE ), which falls to 3. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 173 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the dynamisation of the third island economic revitalization plan ( PS ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 174 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide the Hospital de Guimarães with adequate conditions for its normal functioning ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 175 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the mitigating measures concerning oil coke discharges in the port of Aveiro ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 176 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by replacing milk quotas in the European Union and protecting the line of Portuguese milk ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 177 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the replacement of the rights of civil servants covered by the extraordinary licence ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 178 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Rome and Madrid ( President of the HR ) ; and draft deliberation No 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Deliberation No 1 - PL / 2016 of 19 January ( Composition of delegations to international parliamentary organizations ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u5	Mrs. Members, before we proceed to the vote on a draft resolution which also matters to vote, I remember that there are elections to the following external bodies during the morning: Superior Council for National Defence, National Elections Commission, Commission for the Monitoring of Educational Centres, General Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies and Pedagogic Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 178 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Rome and Madrid ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Now, yes, we will enter the central point of our agenda, which is the debate, in the specialty, of the proposals of lein. 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2016 - 2019, 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016 and 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2016 - 2019. I would like to point out that Mrs Helena Roseta was quite right when, in the session in which we voted them in general, she gave rise to legislation No 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), which, in effect, was the Great Plan Options for 2016 to 2019, and not only for 2016. Therefore, I apologize to you for having answered in an unfounded manner, because of the inadequate information we had at the Bureau. In any event, in this debate, in the specialty, I begin by asking whether anyone wants to make any intervention exactly on this Bill No. 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2016 - 2019 and also on Bill No 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2016 - 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u6	Mr President, if I may, I intend to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u7	You certainly have the floor, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u8	Mr President, first of all, I appreciate your explanation, but I also wanted to give an explanation to the plenary. In Portugal, we tend to discuss only the Budgets rather than the political documents that frame them and which are even before the Budgets themselves. On the contrary, I am a person who always likes to see the political documents, because they fit the options that each government will make over the next four years. in the case of this government, the technique to make the Great Plan Options was very simple and is a technique with which I agree. There was an electoral programme, accompanied by a macroeconomic scenario, this programme was then transformed into a Government Programme, with the changes resulting from the agreements signed and the adjustments to the macroeconomic scenario, and the Government Programme has now been transformed into Great Options. This seems to me to be a good technique, because it means that the electoral commitments and commitments that have been made to create this government will be absolutely voted on through the Big Options. I must now say that what I am interested in talking about here has to do with housing policy. Housing policy is one of those that has little expression in the State Budget, it is not the State that provides access to housing to the general population, are other mechanisms, the market and others. But, in the policies of the Great Options, we have a lot of housing-related matters, from renting to many other things that I invite you to consult, in particular, the urban rehabilitation policies, which are very important. I have a proposal for an amendment on the Big Options, which is a very simple proposal and may even consider that it is not of great relevance, but I believe that it is the following: at some point in the Great Options of the Plan, it is proposed that, in relation to families who are at imminent risk of losing their homes, for a clearance action related to a crash, a local advisory service should be done. That's right, but there are many families at imminent risk of losing their homes, without just being in trouble. The penhoras concern people who have tried to buy a house, but there are many people who have clearance actions for other reasons, namely for the owner's work, for non-compliance with the income payment, out there. These people, from my point of view, must also be supported. The role of Social Security is to support people and families at serious times, in which they have difficulties, either by disease, reform, unemployment and also — this should be one of the components — by losing their homes. Therefore, what I propose is that this service be led by Social Security, in conjunction, of course, with the municipalities—in many parts of the country there are social networks created between Social Security, municipalities and IPSS or other organizations—and that this service has the obligation to effectively support families at imminent risk of losing their homes. They will tell me that if it is a loss of home as a result of non-compliance, there should be no support, but I remember that when a family is clear, children, the elderly and the rest of the family who have no blame for non-compliance are cleared. So there is a public and social responsibility here, and that is the meaning of my amendment proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u9	Mr Duarte Pacheco spoke to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u10	Mr President, my explanation has to do with the proposal for a State Budget Act and not with the proposal for a Large Plan Options Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u11	So, Mr President, let me ask you one last question, in order to know whether there is any other Member who wishes to use the floor on the two proposed laws I have just mentioned, i.e. the Big Options of the Plan and the Plurianual Framework for Budgetary Programming. If there is no one else who wants to speak on these two proposals, then we enter into the debate, in the specialty, of the State Budget Bill proposal for 2016. [[Pause.]] Since there are no inscriptions, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u12	Mr President, during the day and night yesterday, some proposals for amendments to the State budget, in particular one, signed by the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, during the day, and four more, signed by the Socialist Party, already at night. The deadline we agreed on was that of 21 hours last Friday, which means that these proposals were clearly out of date. We know that these things happen, but there has never been this understanding, in the past, by the parties that are now presenting them. [[PS and PCP protests.]] We know that the deadlines that have been set are not statutory, legal or constitutional, resulting from an agreement of gentlemen, which has been established within the Commission. We therefore understand that this happens and that the proposals must be submitted. But we never had that understanding. The opposition parties have always made formal protests and the President of the Commission of the time has not admitted them, bringing the matter to the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic. We do not have that position, Mr President, because we are not here to obstruct but to build. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u13	in this sense, what we are asking, Mr President, is that the Bureau may admit these proposals, so that they can be discussed during today, because they affect articles whose discussion process begins today, but only after admission can they enter this discussion. But this also proves one more thing, Mr President, that we are seeing a budget, between outline, bill, mistakes, amendments and more permanent changes in perfect change. And I can add more, Mr President: we know that this is not the final proposal, there are other measures being prepared and the PSD Parliamentary Group has already expressed its openness so that they can also be admitted. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u14	... and be discussed during this budgetary procedure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u15	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u16	You have the floor, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u17	Mr President, the process of the State budget is a dynamic process, today begins the debate of the amendments to the bill approving the State budget. And the speech we heard recently by the PSD is totally inconsistent with the practice of the previous government and the banks that supported it in the past. In fact, the PS Parliamentary Group presented four new amendments yesterday, but there are four proposals aimed at better explanation of the intended effect. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u18	Mr President, I apologize for interrupting, but I would like to know if you are making an inquiry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u19	Correctly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u20	As you did not say, we did not realize what effect the word was asking for.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u21	It is for an appeal to the Bureau...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u22	Please continue, but thank you for summarizing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u23	All right, Mr. President. As I was saying, Mr President, the proposals we tabled yesterday seek to obtain a better explanation of the intended effect and do not constitute substantial amendments. Finally, Mr President, I would like to recall that in 2013 PSD and CDS presented eight amendments in 2014, three amendments and two amendments in 2015. [[Well remembered!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u24	It is a common practice of the period corresponding to that of the previous government, we are not here discussing anything new. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u25	I believe that the issue and positions of the parties have been clarified, now and before, and as soon as the proposals for amendments have entered the Bureau, the distribution of the parties will be made clear, as is usual. Mrs. Members, moving to the debate, in the speciality, of the bill approving the State budget for 2016, to Article 2. the, are registered the Mrs. Deputies João Paulo Correia, António Leitão Amaro and Pedro Filipe Soares. You have the floor, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u26	Mr President, today we are starting the second phase of the State Budget specialty for 2016. This Budget will see the page of austerity. This budget, as the Economic and Social Council ( ESC ) says, in its opinion of the proposal for a law, "(...) tries to counter the previous line of budgets, in particular with the reversal of some very penalizing measures of labour income. "and "with regard to the recomposition of the tax effort, it is intended to benefit classes with lower incomes and with a greater number of descendants or ascendants". It is therefore a Budget which increases the income available to families through a set of measures totalling EUR 1500 million. These are measures such as the progressive elimination of the overtax of IRS, the progressive elimination of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity, the reduction of moderate rates in access to the National Health Service, the replacement of cuts in salaries of the public service,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... the strengthening of social protection, such as the increase in family allowance, the increase in solidarity complement for the elderly, the increase in social income for inclusion, and also the increase in the national minimum wage this Budget accommodates. But on the indirect side, there is also an reversal of the policy of the former Government: the reduction of VAT for restoration, the end of the exemption from investment funds in the payment of the IMI and the increase in the tax on bank profits. This is a responsible budget, a budget of more economic growth, a budget of more employment, but it is also a budget of good accounts. And here, for good account, it is worth remembering that the previous PSD/CDS government has failed in all its goals. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Presented eight amending budgets,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u27	... failed the deficit targets in 2012, in 2013, in 2014 and also in 2015, and in the last year PSD and CDS were responsible for a budget deviation of more than EUR 1000 million. [[Well remembered!]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u28	The public debt goals failed. Public debt, in the corresponding period of previous PSD/CDS governance, rose to EUR 36 billion! PSD and CDS thus put themselves in a very uncomfortable position, the speech they made against this Budget was losing to the reality of the facts. PSD and CDS have waged that this Budget would not comply with the Government Programme. They failed, fulfill the government program! PSD and CDS wagered that this Budget would divide the left parliament. They failed, they didn't divide the left parliament! PSD and CDS have waged that this budget would not receive « green light » from the European Commission. They have failed, received 'green light' from the European Commission! PSD and CDS wagered that the Eurogroup would bring this Budget down. They failed, the Eurogroup has validated this Budget. PSD and CDS, in a last sigh, in a last-minute spirit of hope, have betted that markets and rating agencies would lead to a revolt against this Budget. They failed, that didn't happen! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u29	All these attacks from the right to the State budget were losing to the reality of the facts. And the most painful record is to see the biggest party of the opposition, PSD, missing the appearance of the specialty process: zero proposals! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With a lack of comparison with zero proposals, a defeatist attitude, the PSD only comes to debate in the specialty to discuss the proposals of the other parliamentary groups. Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group presents 50 more amendments, but submits them in line with the budgetary limits, in line with the Government Programme and, in line with the parliamentary agreements concluded with the Left Block, with the PCP and the Greens Ecological Party. We believe that this effort will help to improve the effectiveness of many measures and programmes aimed at more economic growth, more employment and more social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u30	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let us start this discussion without knowing that Budget we will indeed. While we are here, the government is meeting with the European Commission negotiating amendments, additional measures, on the back of the Portuguese! [[PS laughter.]] But, then, does the government inform and negotiate with a foreign, international entity, additional measures that affect our lives and hide them from Portuguese? Oh, my God! That they would say the left if any other government failed in this minimum transparency! Portuguese and Parliament have the right to know and the Government has the duty to tell Parliament and Portuguese what measures it is preparing and negotiating. But all this opacity and ongoing revisions only increase the enormous uncertainty in which the government has made this budget and this budgetary procedure. No one already believes in the government that every week changes the forecasts, changes the budget, changes the solutions, because it was the programme, the outline, the budget, the mistakes, the revisions, the amendments and now the additional measures. This doesn't stop, changes and more changes! But all international institutions and national institutions (the Council of Public Finance, UTAO, the Economic and Social Council ) are unanimous in criticizing and saying that this budget is unrealistic, it is unwise and exposes Portuguese to serious and serious risks that have cost much, painfully, to leave behind successfully. But why these criticisms? Oh, my God! Because the Budget is bad! It's bad for the country, it's bad for the Portuguese, for the middle class, for the companies! According to the Government itself, it is a budget that slows down on employment, investment and exports and makes Portuguese pay more than EUR 2000 million of taxes and contributions. Why do you pay more taxes? For what? Practically, to support and pay an explosion of EUR 1800 million, at the primary current expense. It is a Budget which, to try to support the illusion of the end of austerity, penalizes the middle class and companies, by distributing, after all, more austerity, more unfairly, because with these indirect taxes, such as fuel taxes, all pay equal invoice, regardless of their income. But it is not surprising now that a government made up of so many repeated ministers and secretaries of state—... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u32	...repeating the old socialist recipe that led to disaster—repeat the recipe and repeat the worst mistake for the country! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this poor budget is your budget, your proposal, your government that is under consideration! [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Left-wing Members do not support only half-government, nor do they support only half-budget, nor do they fall only half-budgets. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u33	We don't trust, we don't agree and we don't believe in this bad budget. And so let's drop it all! With each of our vows in our specialty we always, consistently and vehemently, transmit our opposition and our rejection to this budget so unwise, inconsistent and wrong that it does not, for all this, amend! We do not propose amendments, because this budget has no chance of salvation. But right now, too, because it is legitimate for a government to want to rule with their choices...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u34	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u35	...and, no, with the choices of the opposition. This Budget is yours and this is your responsibility, our path is different, and our Budget would be another,... [[Yes, it would!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u36	... the Portuguese have no doubt and neither do you! [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] And that's why a couple of months ago they rejected our programme, our government and our proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u38	...even when they were equal to yours! With our Budget, the Portuguese knew they would have a more gradual, but permanent, removal of austerity,... [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] ...so that, in the future, they should not come to pay, again, with more sacrifices, the recklessness of the present. We would be placing a more favourable tax burden on companies and on investment; we would be more demanding in the discipline of public accounts and more ambitious in debt reduction, notably by anticipating more repayments to the IMF and saving more on interest; we would be making a greater increase in minimum pensions; we would be reassessing the first wave of structural reforms and starting a new one, aimed at increasing the productivity of public services, to attracting external investment, to the greater openness of the economy, to the growth of exports, to reverse the demographic recession and to attack the deep causes of inequalities that have persisted for decades. [[PS protests.]] But we would not, above all, bet on stimulating domestic consumption, which is already growing, but bet on attracting investment, nor would we be imposing an off-the-job productivity policy. But by your choices, from the left, it is not our path, nor is it our Budget that is here today in discussion. We already know VV. Ex. prepare for this lamentable exercise—which can only be for shame of your Budget—that is to distract them, trying to discuss the solutions of others. But they had this opportunity and said no, when a couple of months ago they broke our way and our program.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u40	This demagogy does not relieve you of your responsibility for your Budget, which is what is being discussed here, in which no one trusts and does not serve Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u41	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a budget that breaks with the path outlined by the previous government. It has a fundamental novelty: it is a constitutional budget. And how strange should it seem to PSD and CDS that it is possible to make a budget that meets the Constitution! But it is also a Budget that stops the path of impoverishment. It's not the budget we all wanted. I think we can say we wanted more, much more! but it is much better than the one the PSD and the CDS would bring to this House. First of all, I would say to the right: it is not worth being so amused, so bitter with this budget, with this debate! It's not worth it, ladies and gentlemen. PSD members, make only half-opposite because they say they are going down and not even making a single amendment proposal, it is even a half-opposite that is marking the PSD. In fact, they did not want to come to the game to discuss seriously alternative proposals and add ideas that could even be good and help the country, but not! They looked at the mirror and thought about what they did in the past and concluded: "We have no good idea for the country, why put forward proposals for amendment to the State budget? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is the conclusion that we have withdrawn from the PSD's provision in this debate. from the Left Block, there is no such claim. At the beginning of the budgetary debate we said that the budget complied with the agreement that had been drawn up with the Left Block when it was presented by the Government, which was worse after going to Brussels, but that we would do everything to make it better after passing through the Assembly of the Republic. And we're here to meet that challenge. We have put forward proposals in the most various areas, all with the same objective: to give more income to people, to give more dignity to those who live in work in our country. And we keep those promises! in relation to the social rate, more than 1 million families will automatically have—I repeat, automatically—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u43	Your purpose was to lower VAT!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u44	... access to the social tariff. Social support, supplementary solidarity for the elderly, family allowance, are new measures that will give people more income to combat inequalities, to fight poverty. We're not staying there! Guaranteeing a dignified life for those with some disability is also one of the purposes that the Left Block brings to debate and therefore we want to make pilot projects of independent life. During these three days of speciality debate, we will have the opportunity to discuss these and other subjects in depth. We went with the assurance that we have met the challenge, fulfilling our commitment to the Government and the Socialist Party, adding to that commitment what we have with the Portuguese people: to improve the budget in the Assembly of the Republic, to ensure that it gets better from here than it has entered. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u45	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, in fact, will demonstrate what, in the general debate, had already become clear, that in this Budget between the words of propaganda and reality is going to be a big difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u48	After this speciality debate it will become more evident that the words are not just different from what is in the Budget. Don't! They are a true curtain of smoke to hide what is really in the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u50	I begin with what has been used as a slogan, not quite original, but, in any case, quite repeated, which is the « turn page». And I would say, Mrs. Members, that this turn of the page, in addition to not being, risks being a turn of the page to return to the beginning of the book of austerity, problems, instability and troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u52	The truth is that, as much as they insist and as much as try to hide the Portuguese, there are two facts that are very simple: it was a PS government, with many of those who now sit back in this government, who began to cut into incomes, who brought the crisis and who brought the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u54	It was the former Government that in 2015 began to restore income, which began to end with the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity) and began to restore public service wages. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The gentlemen. Members may try to hide this one, two, thirty, one hundred times, but this is the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u56	by doing things this way and by wanting to do everything at the same time and immediately question an essential value: following a path of gradualism in the replacement of income would allow that replacement to be safe and definitive, would be forever. Leaving this path opened the door to tax increases, and to many tax increases, opened the door to challenge Portugal's external credibility, with consequences that none of us at this time knows and, above all, and most importantly, risked future incomes. The Portuguese have memory, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember the party that, to win elections, increased public service salaries...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u58	...and that when he won them he went there and cut them off. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] We do not want that to happen again, and that is what you call into question with this budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And it's not just the gentlemen, it's all the gentlemen on the left side. In fact, this is a Budget that also has a feature that I would say is quite innovative: it has not yet entered into force and is already out of date.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u60	This is because, as you can see, we have witnessed, and indeed, we have already attended the debate in general, to truly extraordinary things. The PS assumed: "There are additional measures, but we do not say what they are. We know, but we don't count, it's just our secret! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We don't know who they've shared it with! The Left Block, even before the evidence of the Prime Minister of Portugal assumes that there were additional measures, continued to deny, saying: « No, there is no plan b! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Finally, you denied the obvious! And the PCP, of course, silently! They don't talk, they don't see, they don't listen... It's not appropriate! But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and the CFP, this is the time of truth and today is the day when they will prove that this is indeed your budget and that those that are being discussed are in fact your additional measures as well. It may seem to you that it is possible to deceive someone when they say "We want something. What's good and nice is ours, the rest is no longer! "But everyone has already realized that this responsibility is also yours and will share it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u62	Finally, I would just say the following: we can certainly use the words we understand, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer speak in austerity, in cuts, in difficult measures, until we begin to talk about taxing friends of the economy, which is an absolutely extraordinary notion!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u64	Who created the green tax?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u65	I leave only one last question: what the honourable Members said. Members of the PS, but also those of the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, a budget of the previous government that had cut and planned less money for hospitals, for culture, for education and even for pensions? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if six months ago or one year ago that was cut and austerity, I wonder: what is it now? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u66	So again, I tell you: you can use the words you understand, because the Portuguese will not be fooled and you will see very well what is here! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u67	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members, at this beginning of debate on the speciality, I begin by leaving a reference that we have already left at other times of the discussion of the Budget, but it is important to reaffirm: the concern of the CFP, regarding its intervention in the State budget, aims to ensure that it is still possible to go further in the response to the immediate and urgent problems that are felt by the Portuguese workers and people who need to respond. We have made this contribution to our amendments. We have already made this contribution in the preparation of the budget and we will continue to give it in the debate in the field of expertise so that it is in fact possible to implement measures that respond to the problems of workers and the people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u69	... and that require this response, problems that were created by the PSD and CDS-PP and to which the PSD and CDS-PP did not respond. We have already realized from this beginning of debate in the specialty that PSD and CDS-PP have a speech on additional measures, which, perhaps, should have been prepared by the end of the previous legislation. It is that this speech on the additional measures is probably the discourse that the PSD and the CDS-PP would have already prepared to justify the State budget they wanted to present for 2016, saying that after all the promises they made earlier could not be fulfilled. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I remember just the one with the overtax. What would PSD and CDS-PP do before the evidence that they could not return people to the supertax, as they had promised, as the Portuguese were deceived in election campaign time?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u70	Exactly. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u71	Therefore, this speech of the additional measures to which the PSD and the CDS-PP hold today was certainly the speech they had prepared to defend their Budget with more sacrifices for the workers, with more sacrifices for the reformed, with more sacrifices for the young, the unemployed and the Portuguese who, unfortunately, were forced to emigrate. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, that is why this option and this position of the PSD and the CDS-PP are motivated by accounts. The PSD and CDS-PP do not comply with a Budget that returns income and rights. They do not comply with a Budget that goes further in responding to the problems of workers and the people, from the proposed amendments that are already presented, because PSD and CDS-PP had a different project. We understand, for example, Mr. Members, who do not want to vote in favour of our proposal which gives an answer to the unemployed with an extension of the social unemployment allowance. We understand why, because you approved a budget that cut the allowance and cut the sickness allowance! [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] We realize that they do not want to approve our proposals for the hiring of purses and for their integration into the career of scientific research. We see that they do not want to approve our proposals for school manuals and their freeness this year, for the reduction of the IMI, for proposals to define a fairer system of contribution for self-employed people, for proposals to combat precariousness or increase social benefits, for the hiring of family doctors, for the reduction of the CFP or for proposals to strengthen the culture budget. We realize that you do not want to follow our proposals, because for four years you have done exactly the opposite and today, if you were in the government, you would be doing exactly the opposite. But our hope, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that, just as the Portuguese people defeated your government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u72	No, you didn't defeat! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u73	... the Portuguese people out there must rejoice at these measures that we have proposed and that can be approved in the State budget and will not fail to fight to take further the answer to their problems, even against the will of the PSD and the CDS-PP. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u74	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps it would be important to do here the exercise of thinking, if perhaps we were here discussing a PSD budget and CDS-PP, that Budget would be discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u76	Is that really what matters? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u77	This is important not to do a theoretical exercise in any way... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...but to compare with what we are now effectively discussing. However, if we were perhaps faced with a proposal for the PSD budget and CDS-PP, what we know is that a cut of 600 million would be proposed in social security, which kept the IRS overtax—though they said during the election campaign that 35% of the people would no longer pay, it came to be concluded that it was a lie(it was only one more), after all the return was 0 % — that the pay cuts would continue, the cuts in social benefits, the redundancies in the public service to which you gave the name ‘requalification’,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u78	And continue!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u79	... that would continue the restoration VAT to 23 %, that the IMI would continue to grow, without safeguard clauses.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u80	And does the honourable Member think it isn't?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u81	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, look, there was room for other things. There was room for ending the contribution of the energy sector, because they are very rich and do not need to contribute. I would continue to download IRC to large companies, not to small companies, because these are very rich and do not need to contribute! There are, in fact, very clear and very different options here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This was the drama of continuity that PSD and CDS-PP had to offer. For, the first concern that the Greens had, with regard to the State budget, and we said here in a fortnight debate with the Prime Minister, would be to look first at this clause if they wanted to call: does the Budget respond to a need to reverse the impoverishment cycle that had been implemented by the PSD and CDS-PP? In other words, the State budget makes a significant contribution to the fight against poverty and forced emigration of so many of our qualified young people. We had to finish this cycle! But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I also tell you that on these joint positions which have been taken, the CFP, the Greens and the Left Block, the Greens believe that it was a very important contribution for the State budget to take these more steps in this direction. And we believe that the PS alone, for example, with an absolute majority in the Assembly of the Republic, would not present a State Budget of this nature. Therefore, these agreements that were made on the left were important to pull policies into the sense that the country, of course, needs. But the gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP will waste all the time of the State budget talking about additional measures and a plan b instead of focusing on the State budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u82	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u83	But I have a proposal to make to the gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS and, strictly speaking, all parliamentary groups: let us all focus on beating the European Union and say: "Don't waste time implementing or creating plans b! "? How about we all focus on a State budget to be implemented, to be undertaken and not to be inventing additional measures for the sake of the European Union? How about the ladies. Members will also contribute to this objective and will we, in fact, turn to the debate on the State budget? If it were you, plan b, plan c, it was all done because the European Union was saying and you were doing it? That's not what the Portuguese need. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u84	It is the time of the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Pedro Nuno Santos, to speak on behalf of the Government. I take this opportunity to greet the members of the Government here. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we begin the debate on the State budget in the speciality. This is the moment when the whole Parliament, which all the parliamentary groups have after the general assessment, negative to some, positive to others, can make the assessment, the analysis article to article, in the context of the debate in the specialty, we can all perceive, the Parliament and now also the Portuguese, with which each parliamentary group agrees, with what each parliamentary group does not agree, with what each parliamentary group thinks it should be changed and put forward these same proposals. The PSD decided not to come to the debate, but this is even the time for the PSD, like all parliamentary groups, to be able to tell the country what should be done in Portugal next year and this debate is also being done in the field of expertise. The Budget is, of course, until the global final vote a document that can be changed and the debate in the specialty is the time to improve the Budget. The PSD decides not to hold this debate. It is as worthy to rule as being in opposition, and the PSD has not yet taken on, has not accepted this condition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the opposition and debate in the specialty prefers to discuss measures that do not exist and that, if they exist, they will exist when necessary. Portugal now has the Budget under discussion, a Budget that will be implemented and that is the plan for this Government. There are no additional measures to be put forward, because at present there are no additional measures to be discussed. The PSD says Budget is bad, but it does not make any effort to improve it. You will vote against what you agree, you will vote against what you do not agree, you will vote against proposals for measures, which are the same as those in the previous budgets, you will vote against international commitments made by the PSD / CDS. The PSD prefers to subject national interest to political tactics and this is the mark that the PSD leaves in this whole debate, from beginning to end. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After this time of debate we still do not understand what the PSD thinks about the Budget. in the same intervention, the PSD can say that the Budget is unwise, because the Budget gives everything to everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u86	No one said that. Don't make it up! The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs — But in the same intervention in which they say that the Budget is unwise and gives everything to everyone, in the same sentence, they can say that the Budget is austerity and that it only redistributes this austerity. The PSD does not have a line, the PSD is lost, but all of us, all Portuguese are watching this debate. This is a Budget that restores rights, it is a Budget that restores dignity. This is a budget that gives hope to the Portuguese people. What this government and the majority who support it will show with this Budget is that it is possible to live better in Portugal. After years when you have tried to convince the Portuguese people that it was not possible to live better in Portugal, this Budget will prove that: it is possible to live better in Portugal and fulfill our international commitments! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u87	We move on to Chapter II, starting with Article 3. o — Conditional use of budgetary appropriations. For an intervention, Mr Jorge Campos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what brings us here is, of course, to propose some measures that will improve the budget of the culture that comes to us. Above all, we want to ensure that the measures we propose are implemented, are carried out to the end, and do not happen what happened to the previous majority, which were often budgeted but were not executed. This is the truth and that is also the reason why, to a large extent, the culture stagnated and a significant part of the institutions have entered into crisis. What we propose, in a very concrete way, is that during 2016 there is no decrease in what was the previous budget implementation. In particular, we want, in nominal terms, to exceed the budgetary implementation verified in 2015 in the integrated services and services and autonomous funds included in the custody perimeter. We also understand that radio-television operations cannot be counted in these numbers. Of course, we reiterate our intention to continue to fight for public culture policies and are absolutely available to pursue dialogue in this regard. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u89	Mrs. Members, we turn to proposal 90 - C, submitted by BE, to add to the bill of a new article, Article 3. o -A — Establishs a minimum budgetary implementation standard in the Ministry of Culture. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that this budget has very different options than those that would be ours. In fact, it is enough that this budget has a path towards irresponsibility for us not to be able to subscribe to it. On the one hand, we know that we are discussing concrete proposals here, but new proposals are constantly coming in — one more has now entered — and on the other hand, we know that the Minister of Finance will perhaps be negotiating other proposals in the Land of Peace or Brussels, which have not yet entered and which may enter until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u91	You don't even know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u92	But what I would like to highlight in the proposal presented here is irresponsibility, and this proposal from the Left Block, if approved, shows the evidence of your irresponsibility. If I were the Secretary of State for Culture or the Minister here, I would welcome them because your proposal is very simple: you are obliged to spend more than we spent on 2015, point. That's it! If it's for a rave, if it's for an exhibition, if it's for everyone to walk and see somewhere...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u93	You think culture has nowhere to spend?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u94	...it doesn't matter, it only has one goal: spend more! [[PSD applause.]] It's the only thing you ask. It's irresponsibility to the limit. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u95	For Article 7. ( Budget transfers) Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : It is known that tourism has been one of the most important sectors for economic recovery and, as a result, and in particular because of the weight it has in exports, it is important to mitigate structural imbalances that the Portuguese economy suffers. Regional tourism institutions have a significant role to play in this regard, not only in promoting tourism supply, but also in structuring products. But in this Budget they are treated worse. What was widely criticized a year ago is now accepted and accepted with greater depth. What is happening is that there is less funding in worse quality, allowing for worse management, ensuring less efficiency and placing regional tourism entities in a situation of dependence on Portugal's tourism. This is not what we want. Perhaps what happens is that the statements by the Secretary of State of the Local Administration, when he pointed out that administrative reform, should understand the regional tourism entities absorbed by the CCDRs, which in this case would be worse served in an area essential to the Portuguese economy and in an area at the moment subject to the overthrow of this left government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u97	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the inscriptions to intervene have been made and I am now free to state the articles for which there are no entries. Thus we turn to Article 15. o — Policy on prevention, empowerment, rehabilitation and participation of persons with disabilities. Mrs Helga Correia, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Concerning the proposal for an amendment to Article 15. on public policies for disability, you maintain an austere budget for the social protection of people with disabilities. The social state should create public policies capable of ensuring the full inclusion of these citizens in society, promoting an independent philosophy of life that provides a better quality of life. The paradigm change is urgent and VV. Ex., in this Budget, they only make ads. Would it not be time to put forward proposals to move on to practice? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u99	We now turn to proposal 58 - C, submitted by BE, adding a new Article 15. o -A— Independent life. Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to end the forced institutionalization of people with disabilities who have the conditions to continue living with their family or home if they have personal assistance. We cannot continue to institutionalize people against their will, tens of miles from their homes, away from their families, away from their friends, breaking their social ties in a lifetime. The National Disability Strategy 2010 - 2013 (ENDEF) has already provided for the pilot project of personal assistance, which has never been implemented. Reorienting the funds provided for the models of support for self-employment, provided for in the operational programme for inclusion and employment, it will be possible to implement pilot projects which guarantee basic principles of an independent life policy, direct payments that allow people with disabilities to choose and hire their personal assistance. This is the solution that people with disabilities defend. It's time we heard. It is time to implement your old slogan: nothing about us, without us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u101	To intervene on Article 16. the ( Policy for the prevention of domestic violence, protection and assistance of its victims) has the floor to Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to greet the Government for placing Article 16. or in the Budget. for the first time in Portugal, funds will be monitored in all ministries to combat domestic violence. This is called gender-sensitive budget. It is a long-awaited measure, which was already included, including in the Fourth National Plan for Equality, but has never been implemented and has long been recommended by the Council of Europe. We therefore welcome the government's priority in combating domestic violence, which has also been translated this week, on 8 March, into the exhibition Here a woman died, in the Long Trucks, which I invite all of you. Members to visit as a form of protest and our political commitment to combat this scourge in Portuguese society, which is domestic violence. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u103	We turn to Article 17. o — Extension of effects. Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 17 ( 1 ). it tells public servants that they will maintain the prohibition of remuneration valuations and the freezing of everything else, such as extraordinary work, cost aid, food allowance, that is, anything but the end of austerity. Therefore, they have the rejection of promising to study a strategy of valuing the public function to implement, as in 2018 — pure propaganda! The same is true of Article 18. where the left ones want to give the impression that they will change something in the precariousness of employment in the state, however, promise to go to study the problem. So first, more propaganda and then recognition that you don't know what you're talking about. Mrs. Members, after all, this budget, like the Government, does not pass from a squeezed lemon, without sum, but bitter, very bitter. For the left, something needs to change to get all the same. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u105	Mrs. Members, the following is Article 18. o — Multi-annual strategy to combat precariousness. For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendment of the correlation of forces in this Parliament allows one of the proposals for a change to combat precariousness, provided for in the joint position of the CFP and the PS, to be adopted and translated into law in this budget. This is a starting point and not arriving. A year ago we proposed that a survey be carried out on precariousness in the Public Administration. A year ago, PSD and CDS rejected this goal, worsened the precariousness, increased the working time and tried redeployment by the said requalification. Between 2011 and 2015, 75 000 workers left the Public Administration. In their replacement they entered false green receipts, thousands of employment-insertion contracts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u107	What changes?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u108	... part-time and hourly work, permanent jobs filled by workers with precarious and without rights. A permanent job must correspond to effective links.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u109	It doesn't change anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u110	That is very clear: the alternative to unemployment is not precarious, the alternative to unemployment is right employment. Quality public services require workers with rights and values and it is to this end that we will continue to work. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u111	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor to speak on this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Precautionary is a social chaga and a violation of the dignity of workers. Therefore, it is a violation of human dignity. We know that precariousness, like all labour practices, is not included in the nature of things. It does not have to be that way because a certain view of the market has a lot of strength, nor does it have to continue, because a certain division of politics has had so much weakness. on the contrary, precariousness arises and spreads itself as an oil stain when governments, like the previous one, have rocked the doors of the world of work to all ideas that destroy it as a space of human realization, of contractual stability and of fair pay. The ideology of « saving anyone who can» added the impious action of « exploring as much as they can». It was a kind of « deem here, deem here », an impetus for wage devaluation and degradation in the world of work, in which unemployment was only one of the facets of the ideology with which the right impregnate the country and which, in the absence of the best, was calling « structural reforms». in advance of those who, the pretext of the crisis, found an opportunity to crush rights and incomes, the right indicated the way. And the way was always the same: an aggravation of this problem, removing what they referred to as « barriers». But what barriers are these, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? We know and the Portuguese know: a fair wage, paid holidays, holidays, a stable contract, a working time and a rest time, support in the disease, discounts for the reform, ensuring that a worker is not treated as a disposable piece that is used and dispatched on the following day... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u113	... and the deep certainty that workers and employers are not on equal footing and cannot be treated as equal, because those who work are always in the weakest and most unprotected position of the labor relationship. That is why you see barriers to this government and the parties that support it see the foundations of our social contract. But with this the right has produced a set of ideas made that have made their way in part of our society, fragmenting it. They said: "Precaution is better than unemployment" or "The fault is yours because they don't get better". But no, sirs. Members, it is your fault, it is the fault of the right-wing Members, it is the fault of the former right-wing governors sitting on the PSD and CDS benches. It is your fault because they have made us worse as a society and it will take many years to reverse. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The shame of precariousness reaches a large part of the Portuguese population at active age and takes several forms: underemployment, false green receipts, informal payments, work with duties and without rights, internships behind internships, the infernal cycle of temporary workers. The card is very wide. Precautionary also affects all ages. on the one hand, we have a younger generation, which is aging at home of parents, between hooks and biscuits, most with formation but without expectations of formed life, which continues to delay on a one-way road without any sense, while consuming its best years in an economy that everything sucks and gives nothing. on the other hand we have an older generation that has become unemployed too early for reform, a generation from intensive sectors with greater predominance in the north of the country and to which the right had nothing to offer but the roadside, unemployment and precariousness after the end of the allowance for which they discounted low wages. The Portuguese economy has become precarious over the past few years and this destroys us twice as much. Precautionaryness has very strong social, direct and indirect costs, but above all it has individual costs for the lives of those who enter a spiral of humiliation, instability and subjugation. Precautionary is all this and usually still dialogues with illegality. Precautionary rules and not only does it not solve the problems of those outside the formal system as it tries, under this pressure, to remove basic rights to those within. That is why it is time to say « enough», it is time to say that we are paying attention. Therefore, as the State has to give the example, we propose in this article the implementation of a multiannual strategy to combat precariousness, which will start with the removal of all contracting instruments used by public administration services, agencies and entities, including employment-inclusion contracts, internships, research grants and service contracts. This government will firmly combat the precariousness because there is no good precariousness. It wasn't that and it was less, it wasn't so much, and it was almost. There we will be to do what is necessary. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u114	Mr João Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro said that it is time to say'sufficient'. There will be several times to say'sufficient enough' in this debate in the speciality of the State budget, especially enough demagogy, enough illusion and enough to deceive the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] After we have listened to Mrs Rita Rato and Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I will read the article of the bill,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u116	... because I think the reading of the article is elucidative of what we are voting on, in view of what has been said by the honourable Members. Mr Rita Rato and Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro. So article 18. the, which will solve all the problems of all the precariousness of all Portuguese workers, which has the heading « Multi-annual strategy to combat precariousness », says the following : « 1. During 2016, the Government defines a multiannual strategy to combat precariousness. 2 — For the purposes of the preceding paragraph, a withdrawal of all contracting instruments used by the services, bodies and entities of the Public Administration shall be promoted within six months, (... ) ». That is, the survey, for six months, of everything we already know,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u117	It's the socialist!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u118	... that you proclaim,... [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u119	How do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u120	... is the biggest mistake in solving precarious problems in public administration. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] You don't have the courage to solve the problem, but you have the potential to want to deceive the Portuguese people by studying. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] For more than 10 years we have known this socialist strategy! For more than 10 years we have been studying the Socialist Party, which worsens the reality of Portuguese life. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] But there is a novelty, there is a great novelty this time: what was the lies of the Socialist Party became the ambushes of the Socialist Party, the ambushes of the Left Block, the traps of the PCP and the ambushes of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u122	What about social security?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u123	And the study of state reform?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u124	Actually, that's enough! Just be the Socialist Party alone fooling the Portuguese! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u125	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Isn't this CDS outrage strange when in the past we had four budgets whose texts presented by the government did not have a single reference to the need to combat job insecurity? Oh, my God! Now, are they freaking out and talking about tricks? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CFP.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It's true, now we're talking about it! Now, you're talking about precariousness! Now we are talking about the need to combat job insecurity! In fact, in recent years, especially in the last four and a half years, what we have had was a situation that is expressed as follows: job insecurity has ended up inundating labour relations in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u127	Get out of there and do a study!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u128	Mr. João Almeida, it wasn't me who was in the government! The honourable Member is that he was part of the government which has created job insecurity. So, in the most various forms, they were green receipts, they were term contracts, they were employment-insertion contracts, they were internships...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u129	It was and it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u130	They flooded labor relations with precariousness. And she set herself up so... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] That is why you are so outraged. Now, we are talking about the need to combat precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u131	For now it's just studying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u132	We are also fighting what you have sown. [[CDS-PP protests.]] I could even say that it was not just here, we could also talk about the changes that you have made to labour legislation, which were an invitation to employers to say goodbye. You have facilitated dismissal and have made the amount of compensation much cheaper in the event of dismissal. It was a solid type: it doesn't cost anything, it's easy, it's just saying goodbye. That's what you guys did. So, I think the people who work deserve more respect,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u133	We deserve, we deserve!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u134	... respect that you have for them. But it wasn't just at this level, it was at all levels. People deserve more respect, and, therefore, the Greens associate themselves with the need to combat precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u135	Study, it's not fighting! It's studying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u136	... because you have done very bad to the Portuguese on the labour market. I've already given some examples and I could give more. And I'm not talking about holidays, work hours, wage freezes, we're talking about work insecurity. Studies indicate that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u137	So, you're going to do more studies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u138	... during the past four and a half years, you even tried to do more, tried to institutionalize precariousness, transformed what should be an exception to a rule. It was just doing favors to employers. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is high time, in fact, to associate ourselves in this fight with the precariousness of work which you have not simply ignored, as they have, on the contrary, sown. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, BE, PCP and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u139	Still on this Article 18. the, has the floor on behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State for Social Security, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There are two issues that I cannot but answer. With regard to the PSD Member who told us about the disability and the proposals that support people with disabilities, in fact, we have introduced an amendment to this State budget which increases the supplement by dependency, the assistance to the person, who are the people who support people with disabilities. This supplement, the disability bonus, was not subject to an update throughout the period when you were government and will be updated now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You left at the PT2020 a qualification measure for persons with disabilities or disabilities, but we faced, in December, applications that were not in a position to be opened and these institutions that support disabled people would not be able to pay their wages in January, would have to stop and give such support. We found an alternative measure until we managed to have at PT2020 the conditions met for the application to be open, and it was opened this week. So I find it unbelievable to talk about this situation. We are working on a single benefit for people with disabilities and these measures do not seem to matter. I think that people with disabilities matter and matter a lot. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] And they matter much more than all the measures we have not found in the budgets of the last four years for people with disabilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the intervention of Mr João Almeida of the CDS Parliamentary Group, the fight against precariousness was in fact a priority of the former Government, which we have no doubt about.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u141	It's not like this either!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u142	I would like to know where this uprising is because, in fact, it does not exist and we have to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I would also like, because it is a question of what I have heard, whether or not the CDS Parliamentary Group agrees with a programme to combat precariousness, because it does not seem to agree with what we have just heard. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] And now I ask: what strategy would be the strategy for combating precariousness that would be introduced if you were government now and that was not introduced in the last four years? [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u143	Mr President, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u144	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u145	It's to send out the uprising they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u146	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, making it cheap that the study is necessary — Mr de The Greens, you just said no, that it is all studied... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] No, no! Mr. José Luís Ferreira has just said that everything is studied,... [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] ...but the Budget is from the Government. In the field of study, the Secretary of State defended the article that says the study will be done for six months. How does the State budget last for one year, I wonder, in the other six months, what heading of the State budget is that we find the funds for the measures that you are going to take on the basis of the conclusions of the study?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u147	In reply, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u148	Mr President, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, the State Budget for 2016 will probably come into force in April. So, we'll have six months to do the study and we'll have, during the study and until the end of the year, a strategy to combat precariousness...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u149	Where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u150	... with measures. As we know, policy measures are options, and probably, in the context of combating precariousness, there will be measures to be replaced,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u151	Sure! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u152	... during the years 2016 and 2017. It is a shame that we have not this survey made to save six months in defining this strategy to combat precariousness. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u153	Even with regard to the same Article 18. Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this chapter on public administration workers, there are in fact subjects that are of the most relevant part of the State budget, because here are some of the issues that concern the reversal of some of the most serious measures of the former PSD and CDS government, particularly in relation to the replacement of wages, with regard to working conditions, the working links of the public administration and the State business sector. This is where measures are concentrated, for example, which for the first time in five years open the prospect of hiring workers in the business sector of the State and in the Public Administration, contrary to the absolutely restrictive rule that was placed in previous budgets by the Government of the PSD and the CDS. It is clear from this chapter that there are matters for which the CFP has underlined its disagreement, in particular with regard to the restrictions that continue to be imposed on employees of the Public Administration, which cannot fail to merit the disagreement on the part of the CFP. And we have also clarified our position and we do not delude what really is the discussion that the PSD and the CDS are trying to do. It is that the sole intention of the PSD and the CDS is to prevent a State budget from giving effect to any of the measures that are adopted. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] And, obviously, they will try to take advantage of all the pretexts to lower the State budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u155	Ah! You accused the touch!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u156	... so that nothing in the State budget can be approved. on our part, Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS may be assured that we will not count for this attempt to settle not only what is foreseen in the Budget but also what is already approved and needs to be achieved through the Budget. This has to do with questions relating to the workers of the Public Administration and the business sector of the State, with the opening up of the hiring of workers in local authorities, with the prospects for higher education institutions, for example, in order to be able to respond to problems created and aggravated by the PSD Government and the CDS. Therefore, the CFP, with its proposals and with the contribution it has made over time so that the Budget of this response, will not fail to, by marking its position, contribute so that these positive measures can be implemented with the implementation of the State Budget. To conclude, with regard to precariousness, I just wanted to say the following: there is a question that will remain in this debate. from the speech of Mr João Piinho de Almeida, there is this question: if the rule is so harmless, why did they always reject it in the past when we presented it? You know, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, this rule appears in the State Budget because the CFP insisted that it appear, because it corresponds to the proposals that the CFP had previously submitted and, at the time, you never said it was harmless,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u157	I get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u158	... they have always found arguments to perpetuate precariousness in the Public Administration, to perpetuate the fragility of the labor ties and the working conditions of the workers of the Public Administration. And the example is in your action, in the action of a Minister of the CDS on social security: last November, 75 social security workers would be fired. And it was you who, when they had the protection of social security, who pushed disabled workers into requalification, that you, when they had the protection of social security, who pointed to cancer patients with disabilities of 60 % the dismissal due to requalification. It is to these options and these policies that this Budget looks forward to an end, with the contribution of the CFP, that we are very proud of. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u159	For a second speech, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u160	Mr President, it is just to tell Mr. João Pinho de Almeida that, perhaps, you did not understand what I said. It is that I did not say that this study was not necessary and that it was all studied, said something substantially different, i.e. that all studies, and various entities, clearly indicate that the previous government, the PSD/CDS government, substantially increased precariousness, in Portugal, which is a substantially different thing. And what is to be recorded in this debate is that you are not able to deny this statement: you have substantially added labour insecurity in Portugal. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u161	Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I find it strange that the CDS comes here to say that we're going too slow in this race when the right government hasn't even come out of line—it hasn't even come out of line! They may say that it is a good intention, but the truth is that it is an intention that you have never had.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u163	Ah, that's an intention! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u164	And this is a registered intention of the Budget, which will be, in the future, action. The Left Block proposes an extension of the strategy to combat precariousness also to the state business sector. And in this respect we propose another amendment to Article 33. the, so that the replacement of the salaries of the public service is made for all. We know that the PSD and CDS government has cut down and delayed replacement for the calendars. But we want to be certain in the replacement and we want to be sure that the replacement of the salaries of the public service also comes to the newcomers and the workers with the green receipt, to whom the salary was also cut and, at this time, at the time of the replacement, they must also be entitled to the replacement of their entire salary, as in fact is the agreement made with the Socialist Party and how it is constitutional. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u165	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal submitted by BE, to add a new article, Article 20. o -A - Age of reform for disabled workers (proposal 66 - C ). Mrs Domicília Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The average life expectancy of the Portuguese population has been increasing, reflecting on the calculation of the retirement age. however, most workers with disabilities have a lower average life expectancy. On the other hand, disabled workers have greater physical and psychological wear in the exercise of their function. This proposal to reduce the retirement age for disabled workers is not an innovative idea. Both in Europe, in countries such as Spain, France and Italy, and in Brazil, this reduction has already been applied. The Left Block proposes a progressive reduction between 2016 and 2018, without any penalty. In 2018, workers with a degree of disability between 60 % and 89 % will have a 6-year reduction ; those with a higher disability will have a 10-year reduction. This is our proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u167	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal submitted by BE, to add a new article, Article 20. o -A — Replacement of automatic renewal of RSI (proposal 141 - C). Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Article 20. o -A, with the heading « Replacement of automatic renewal of the RSI », demonstrates clearly the disorientation of the Left Block. It is because the Left Block began to want the automatic renewal of the RSI (social income of insertion) last 12 months; now, in a new last-minute addition, to save, I assume, the face of the Government and the Socialist Party, it is shamefully proposing a revision of the RSI's renewal rules. It's extraordinary, Mr. President! Those who wanted the immediate and automatic renewal of the RSI now want to study and review it throughout 2016. They want to, but after all, they don't want to; they want to, but after all, we have to study first. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has nothing against this benefit. [[Yells and protests from BE and PCP.]] Listen, listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! What we always defend and continue to defend is that this must be a transitional benefit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u169	And the hundreds of thousands of children? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u170	... a transitional provision to assist citizens in a situation of particular vulnerability. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u171	The RSI should therefore, first of all, be a support for insertion. Looking at RSI as an insertion support is not compatible with any automatic renewal, without measuring the maintenance of the assumptions, without analyzing the situation of each and without taking care of the intended insertion path. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u172	Even with regard to the same proposal for an addendum to Article 20. Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps the CDS has not read the proposal well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u174	Li, li!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u175	...because the proposal has exactly the same meaning. It is that an amendment proposed by the CDS makes it possible for those who are in a situation of permanent poverty to have a transitional benefit and two months without access to the CSR only because it is necessary to renew the entire process every year. And there is a small problem: you have not left the system prepared so that, in a situation where families maintain an economic shortage, they can also maintain the only benefit that allows them to have a minimum of dignity. You have always been hostile to the social income of insertion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u176	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u177	...have always been hostile to policies to combat poverty other than charity, with extended hands. on the contrary, we are at a time when we have an obligation to ensure that combating poverty is a human rights issue and that social income for inclusion is a fundamental tool for this fight. That is what this proposal is for. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u178	Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this issue, I just want to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group has always been concerned and has been committed to helping people in a vulnerable situation to find a way. That's our process. [[BE's protests.]] You are concerned only with the allocation of benefits, we are concerned about the construction of a life project for these people, helping to include them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u180	Yeah, yeah! ...Friendly life!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u181	Now, what they bring us is more than the same. in the past, they challenged, destroyed, attacked, called us all possible adjectives;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u182	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u183	... today, they are conformed parties, including the PS. They are a government of conformates, of the « we are going to do », of the « we are going to study», of tomorrow. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u184	For an intervention, on the same proposal for an addition, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the question of the automatic renewal of social income for inclusion, in fact, of all the changes that have been made over the past four years in the social income for inclusion, they have in fact not been concerned with the change in the scale of equivalence and the change in the reference value of the benefit, which has caused 120 000 persons to no longer receive the allowance, of which 50 % are children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u186	That's worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u187	This is because the change in the equivalence scale introduced essentially penalized larger families and families with more children. But we have already corrected this situation with this State budget and we will give these families the opportunity to meet the conditions of access and the condition of resources to return to service. However, these are not just the amendments you have made over the past four years. In fact, there was an automatic renewal of an informal income survey every month, with a calculation of the benefit of beneficiaries who had been provided for more than one year, in which social security at the time verified whether or not they should maintain the social income of inclusion, asked the families if they had made any other changes beyond those and made the provision cease when the conditions of resources were no longer met. Now, what you did was to introduce again, every year, the obligation of these families to deliver social security demands on paper, with all the attached documentation, destroying what in the computer application and in the social security services was set up to prevent this flow of services and to prevent these families from having to come to social security on a yearly basis to deliver on paper requirements in order to continue to benefit from this provision. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] It is precisely for this reason that it is not possible, on April 1, to implement an automatic renewal of the performance with informal income verification. That is precisely why we are going to have to build what has been destroyed four years ago! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u188	We move on to Article 22. o — Registers and notary. Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u189	Mr President, I will speak on proposals 33 - C and 34 - C concerning the addition of two new articles, Articles 22. o -A — Reduction of the contributions of the beneficiary holders to ADSE, and 22. o-B — Reduction of the contributions of beneficiary holders to the SAD and ADM health subsystems, not with respect to Article 22. The proposal of the law. These are two proposals for adding a new article to the State budget in which the CFP proposes a reduction of 0, 5 % in contributions to ADSE, ADM and SAD. The proposal is fair because the PSD and CDS-PP have used the increased contributions of these health subsystems not to ensure the sustainability of these subsystems but to make a new cut in the wages of these workers. The evidence is that ADSE has, according to the Court of Auditors, recorded surpluses, demonstrating that this increase of two percentage points carried out by the PSD and the CDS-PP has served exclusively to cut wages. in SAD and ADM, which concerns security forces and services and the military, it is important to say that it is operational health, i.e. the convenience of the services and security forces themselves and the convenience of the branches of the armed forces, so it is not fair what the PSD and the CDS-PP have done in order to increase the discounts of these workers, these security forces agents in relation to the health that is operational and that is of interest to the Portuguese State Logo, Mr President and Mr. Members, the proposal of the CFP to reduce the discounts of these workers is of the most fundamental justice to correct this injustice, not compromising the financial sustainability of the subsystems and aiming to eliminate another cut in wages promoted by the PSD and CDS-PP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u190	With regard to the addition of Article 22. o-B, is registered for an intervention by Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u191	Mr President, with regard to the addition of a new article, Article 22. o-B, the CFP presents proposal 35 - C on social security concerns, and, in this regard, it also presents proposal 28 - C on self-employed persons. They are two proposals that aim, in fact, to give an immediate response to concrete problems of meaning in the lives of workers and are recognizing the fundamental role of social security lovers, who fill the lack or lack of response in the network of public or non-profit day care centres, being often the only social response to families, which the CFP proposes to ensure, immediately, the continuity of the activities of social security and their income lovers, proposing the extension of the transitional regime. Without prejudice to finding a stable job response for these workers who put an end to the regime of false green receipts and to the precariousness to which they have been subjected, we believe it is essential to ensure, at the moment, the continuity of these workers in the performance of their duties. The CFP also presents a proposal that responds to an old and fair demand for self-employed workers, whose social security discounts are based on fictitious incomes, often forcing them to discount even when they have not obtained any income, which still adds to the poor social protection they have when most of the time they have a significant part of their income. In this respect, it is important not to confuse the false green receipts with the true green receipts and to reaffirm here the need for the false green receipts to see their reality of work transformed into a stable bond with rights and of the true independent workers, who today earn very low wages, have a contribution to the fairer social security and according to their income. We propose a review of the basis for calculating the discounts for the social security of these workers, and in 2016 an assessment of the current situation should be made of the various existing solutions and their impacts, so that in the coming year an appropriate scheme can be implemented for determining their contributions, based on a criterion of greater temporal proximity between the moment the incomes are taken and the time the discounts are made. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u192	We moved on to Article 23. o — Recruitment of workers in public higher education institutions, for which, for an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 23. the reference in paragraph 3, that there are restrictions in the hiring of teachers in university and polytechnic higher education, exactly those institutions that requested extraordinary support last year. It seems to us that these institutions, which were already subsidised and underfinanced, cannot continue to have such restrictions. Therefore, we propose the elimination of paragraph 3 exactly in the sense of those same institutions have the possibility to contract. We are talking about the University of Algarve, the University of Azores and also some political institutes that requested this support. The fight against precariousness must be a reality and we therefore believe that those institutions that were already overburdened cannot have any restrictions, and these are precisely those that need greater support for contracting. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u194	We moved on to Article 24. o — Recruitment of doctors for the national scientific and technological system. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u195	Mr President, the CFP presented a proposal for the progressive integration of research scholarships into the scientific research career. Forget the Portuguese Communist Party that the purse is a beneficiary of a scholarship with a specific objective, with no employment link. According to best international practices, research fellows are in a protected training period that is incompatible with the employment contract. The statute also prevents the conclusion of this same contract of work and it is now possible to hire researchers for the career of scientific research. The question is the following: when does the integration of pockets in the scientific research career cost? I also ask the CFP, which for years stated that the previous budgets were very thin in the area of higher education, how does it intend to reconcile the integration of these pockets without having listened to the COR (Council of Directors of Portuguese Universities ), without having heard the CCISP (Coordinator Council of Political Higher Institutes ), and where are money transferred in this matter? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u196	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to speak on a proposal from the CFP to add a new Article 24 ( o-C ) to which Mrs Nilza de Sena referred on the progressive integration of scientific research scholarships into the scientific research career.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u197	Mr President, the CFP had requested the floor to intervene on a new Article 24. o -A, to present proposal 25 - C, and I will take advantage of trying to give some answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u198	I would just like to clarify that Mrs Nilza de Sena was registered to speak on Article 24. that of the proposed budget law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u199	I am then taking advantage of the proposal of the CFP 25 - C. Mrs. Members, there are also false green receipts in science and technology, covered by the so-called scientific research grant contract, which, in fact, masked a precariousness that should not exist because they should be labor contracts. Mrs Nilza de Sena thinks they're in training. Long periods of training pass by the doctors of our country — 20 years, 25 years of training! The honourable Member, perhaps even for her academic experience, should speak more carefully of the people who devote decades of their lives to obtaining a degree of doctorate, or, better, in most cases, to post-doctoral studies, and already after obtaining the degree they have no other option, such as the Member of the Visas, to make her contribution to the national scientific and technological system other than through the scholarship contract. Mrs. Member, this is masking a precariousness that has been promoted by successive PS, PSD, CDS governments over time. What the CFP proposes is that there be a phased integration plan of the pockets in the research career, first of all the post-doctoral students, which was where they should always have been, Mrs. The PCP is not here « taking any rabbit from the carton ». You're saying you should comply with the law. These doctoral researchers should have been in the research career for a long time, whose doors have not been open for a long time. And, Mrs Nilza de Sena, there are not only higher education institutions, there are other units, especially State laboratories, where these researchers are very much needed. What is not really understood is how there are so many pockets when so many people are needed in the research career! Therefore, the proposal that the CFP here makes is precisely to answer two questions: to the precariousness of those people in the career, ending it and giving stability to their personal, social, economic life, but also to their scientific project, and at the same time satisfying the needs of the system, which currently does not have career researchers and needs them. This also implies a reflection and approval of a new status which ends with the widespread use of pockets to meet the system's permanent needs. Therefore, the proposal presented by the CFP is to, in the first phase, raise the permanent needs of the institutions, make a balance sheet and create transitional mechanisms for the research career or, as proposed by the CFP, create a new career of researchers in training for current scholarships. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u200	With regard to Article 25. o — Recruitment of new workers of public law and public undertakings, Mr José Silvano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will talk about this article relating it to Article 27. the, on the contract for public undertakings, because it is the print mark of what is the collective contract by the government and the left. Previously, there were clear and objective rules on the admission of these workers by these companies, in particular the compulsory reduction of the number of workers. What do we have now? We have a regulatory decree of the Budget which gives a blank check to the Government to be able to hire as you want, as you understand, without any supervision made by us that we will approve this rule today. What is this? It is to apply a rule of the past that has produced so bad results in the present. This is the mark of the collective bargaining of this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u202	We turn to Article 32. o — Amendment of work regimes within the framework of the National Health Service, for which you have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Deputy Ángela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 32. the work regime was changed within the framework of the SNS defined for 2016, the table setting out the work arrangements of hospital staff and their remuneration. This article fully reproduced Article 73. the law of the State Budget for 2015, keeping the values there. And I say « come» and « reproduce » because yesterday at 11:30 p.m. he introduced a proposal for a replacement which will extend the effects of the previous Article 73. and delete Article 32. what they presented in this State budget. Question: What is this, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Left cowardice? Are such measures hidden? Or this budget and this article, after all, do no longer reflect a decrease in the value of work, as stated in the past by the CFP, The Greens and the Block in the proposals they presented regarding the previous State budget, which this article now intended to restore? By the way, I would also like to ask where the defence of workers is here. It is pure hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to ask one more question, not just for us, probably a lot, but also a lot, important in the application of the 35-hour weekly work programme and which, in our view, will have an impact of about 200 million euros only in the field of health. In this respect we have the most unbelievable statements by the leaders of this government. For example, the Minister of Health said last March 2nd that this issue will bring "a possible, I would say, probably, the need for more nurses, more operational assistants and other professionals". Mr Prime Minister, on the other hand, tells us that «35 hours will come into force on 1 July », and Mr Finance Minister says something even better : «with regard to this 35 hours application in Public Administration, the impact must be null », must be neutral ». Finally, the Minister of Health assumes that "it will cause a very significant additional budget requirement, represents a new cost for the National Health Service. in the proposed State Budget Act for 2016 and in the State Budget Report itself this financial impact is not calculated. However, pages 29 of the explanatory note finally show a reinforcement of EUR 132 million, informing that this value incorporates the impact of wage replacement and charges with a possible — perhaps, as if anyone had doubts about this need in the area of health! — admission of more professionals or payment of more extraordinary hours, which are, as is known, two logical consequences. The questions being asked are: what does the government want? Do you want to push this question forward with your belly? Is there a lack of courage? And now the PCP and the Block no longer qualify these issues as a civilizational retreat, a theft and an attack on workers? Oh, my God! Come in, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u204	We move on to the discussion of Article 38. o — Budget transfers to autonomous regions. Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget returns to people income, wages, pensions and social support, returns hope. For those who live in Madeira, and in the face of the sacrifices that the Madeirans have suffered in recent years, this will be the relief that will be felt and that comes only from this State budget, because at regional level the approved budget maintains the path of impoverishment, keeps the cut in in insularity subsidies, does not re-establish the lowest rates of IRS and VAT that have been in force until 2011. With the proposed amendments, the value of the transfers to this region has reached the highest value since 2011 and here I want to denounce the hypocrisy of the members of the Madeira PSD who approved the 2014 Budget, which withdrew EUR 70 million to the transfers to the Region, and now, when this value is returned to the previous level, they vote against, as they initially did. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] It is hypocrisy of those who have been in the majority in the previous legislature and have ignored the problems of the Region, now demanding that all be solved at once, seeking pretexts for voting against side issues and not seeing the essential, that is, that this Budget, for Madeira, is the best in recent years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u206	For an intervention, Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The relationship between the state and the Autonomous Regions must be governed by transparency and fairness vis-à-vis both regions, regardless of the amount of bloglogist or socialist magic makeup that tries to make it clear here in the Budget. The basic principle of the constitutional and institutional relationship vis-à-vis the Autonomous Regions does not coincide with this unusual amount of inconsistencies contained in this Budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u208	It is not acceptable for the Government to discriminate against Madeira against the Azores and not comply with the Regional Finance Act, as can be seen in Article 38. the, in which the same formula is not applied equally to the two regions as regards the National Cohesion Fund. Between so many corrections and so many errors that have marked this budgetary procedure, it is at least loaded to reach this stage of the discussion without this flagrant injustice being corrected. Is that how the PS Government intends to mark the 40 years of autonomy this year? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u209	On Article 39. o — Need for the financing of the autonomous regions, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I leave a note to say that the PSD Member Rubina Berardo is sure that she did not realize what is being discussed. We are discussing three similar proposals, one of which is the Socialist Party, which is precisely repossessing the Regional Finance Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u211	No, no! We are discussing the budget proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u212	So this was a non-intervention on a non-case. Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the situation on the Socialist Party's proposals for the Autonomous Regions. This State budget is, in our view, a path of hope for the Autonomous Regions and the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party reflect the Government's thinking on the importance of a convergence between the Continent Triangle, Madeira and Azores, as he said yesterday with a great sense of opportunity, Mr President of the Republic. In addition, this State budget marks the end of the insensitivity and ostracism to which more than 500 000 Portuguese people living in the Autonomous Regions have been voted out, abandoned by a government committed to ignoring the specific island realities, thus mistreating its citizens. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] It is true that we do not solve all the problems in this budget year, but I am sure everyone understands that it is not possible to find all the solutions for so much wrong done by the PSD/CDS coalition in the Autonomous Regions. This State budget and the proposals put forward by the PS still reflect three realities that will always be part of the modusoperandi of the socialist government: the first is to treat equally what is equal, giving a sign of respect and rigour in the treatment of the public cause; the second is to recognize that citizens living in the middle of the Atlantic, in the Portuguese islands, are flesh and bone and, regardless of who governs, deserve consideration, recognition and respect; the third, and it is really important, is that you have to be fully aware that the autonomous realities, having similar legal and constitutional conditions, are very different regions today because of governance models with far-reaching political options and practices and that have had concrete effects among their populations. This is not possible to hide and much less it is possible to pretend that it is not exactly like this. It is precisely on the pretext of analysing this proposal of Article 39. which we can well exemplify what distinguishes the accomplishor from the breacher, the responsible for the irresponsible, the good of the evil, as regards the Autonomous Regions. The PS proposes to introduce a special authorisation to the Autonomous Regions to consolidate commercial debt in financial debt. It is worth observing, in this case, the differences in the realities of the two regions: the trade debt of the Autonomous Region of Madeira — and I would ask the attention of the honourable Members. Members for this matter — it is today EUR 852 million and the trade debt of the Autonomous Region of the Azores is EUR 1, 8 million. Madeira's trade debt is therefore 473 times higher than the trade debt of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and this says all about the practices of one region and another. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not all. The legacy of the PSD is much deeper in this region. For example, the overall debt of the Autonomous Region of Madeira is EUR 6 billion. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is EUR 6 billion! I understand that the PSD likes to hide what is happening in Madeira, because it is a governance of the PSD, but the reality is this : EUR 6 billion, and it has the brand, has the label of the PSD. It is not from any other party, it is from the PSD, which governs Madeira and which has left this terrible and terrifying heritage to the Madeirans. In addition, if we look at the regional budget for 2016, we see something even worse. If we check the financial responsibilities assumed by the PSD Government over this time and which will have to be paid in the future, we are talking not of EUR 6 but of EUR 10 billion of financial responsibilities which are included in the regional budget and which correspond to 250 % of the GDP of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. But the PSD has left more heritage: it has also been responsible for the greatest fall in gross domestic product in regions in Europe, falling more than 20 % of the gross domestic product of the Autonomous Region of Madeira in recent years, as a result of the options of the regional PSD Government with the chance of the national PSD. And there is more: today we have the highest unemployment rate in the country, also as a result of the PSD options ; we have the highest poverty rate in the country, as a result of the PSD options, and we have the highest proportion of failures. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] I understand that it is unpleasant to keep this stain in the PSD curriculum, which is said to be so rigorous and responsible, because this is all contrary to what it has to do with responsibility and rigour. However, this serious and disturbing situation truly contrasts — and I finish — with the socialist options in the Azores, which, in addition to balanced public accounts, are clear to all, and strict budgets, allow us to introduce anticyclical measures, such as lower income and taxes supplements, but also a social policy, which Madeira does not have. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it seems clear that we have, in fact, two regions that need to be treated equally, but we have two regions that have had completely different governments: one totally unbalanced and one totally balanced and strict one, which makes the citizens of the Azores living today with better conditions than the citizens of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u213	We now move on to Article 40. o — Amounts of participation by local authorities in State taxes. For an intervention, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this discussion, in the specialty, we want to make it clear once again that this Budget does not comply with the Local Finance Act, which represents a step backwards from what has already happened in 2015. Indeed, in 2015 transfers to municipalities increased by 5 %, equivalent to EUR 108 million, and this increase represented exactly compliance with Law No 73 / 2013, at its maximum limit provided for in Article 35. the, which says that the maximum limit cannot exceed 5 %, and was exactly 5 %, effectively complying with the Local Finance Act. In 2016, this budget provides for an increase of only EUR 26 million, i.e. approximately 1, 2 % of the increase. As I said, this effectively represents a step back in what is compliance with the revenues of local authorities as regards their participation in state taxes. We cannot but emphasise this because it naturally has an effect on the lives of people and citizens insofar as it is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, it does not compete for territorial cohesion and does not promote the proper implementation of Portugal 2020. With this reduction, there is indeed a loss of around EUR 500 million of investment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u215	The next article under discussion is 46. o — Financial transfers under decentralization of competences to municipalities and inter-municipal entities. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite all the difficulties and constraints, the former PSD and CDS-PP government, in line with the expected inflation, never cease to provide for the updating of the funds necessary to meet the transfer of competences to municipalities in relation to curriculum enrichment activities and in relation to the management of the School Park of 3. the cycle of basic and secondary education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u217	It's been months of late pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u218	In 2016, the inflation rate will be expected to double that which occurred in 2015. But this year, it is recorded — I repeat, this year, it is recorded — those words will not be updated. This is the first time that this happens. They are naturally losing the authorities, but mostly they are losing more than 1 million Portuguese children. For them, the government did not turn the page of austerity; for them, the government went back on the page of austerity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u219	Let's move on to Article 48. o — metropolitan areas and intermunicipal communities. For an intervention, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : in the same way as I mentioned earlier the failure to comply with the Local Finance Act for transfers to the municipalities and authorities, also in this case is not complied with the Local Finance Act in transfers to the metropolitan areas. After the difficult period of financial adjustment and the efforts of the former Government to restore the normality of municipal revenues resulting from transfers to the authorities of this State budget, it was not expected that this backwardness would also exist in metropolitan areas. The metropolitan areas will receive only 62% of what they would be entitled to under the Local Finance Act. This is to say that anyone who does not respect the Local Finance Act does not respect the autonomy of the local authority. in this Budget, the local power is the poor relative of this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u221	Still on Article 48. the, has the floor on behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State of the Local Authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u222	Mr. President, with due regard, Mrs. and Mrs. Members : I leave two or three references to what has been done in terms of local finances. I already had the occasion last week to try to clarify Mrs Berta Cabral, but, by the way, I could not and will try to clarify her again. Indeed, this budget does not comply with the Local Finance Act, and you said so. We don't say it as if it were a flag, that it isn't, but it doesn't. And it wasn't for forgetting or for vanity, it was because the State has no financial conditions to enforce. [[PSD protests.]] Now, it is a lie that last year, in 2015, the Budget met the Local Finance Law. The Local Finance Act has not been fulfilled since the 2011 Budget. in 2016, the PSD Parliamentary Group discovered for the first time the opinions of the National Association of Municipalities and, then, it is good to review the opinions given by the National Association of Municipalities since 2011, namely last year's on the budget proposal for 2015, in which it was expressed that this Budget did not comply with the Local Finance Act. This budget, not complying with the Local Finance Act, restored the autonomy of local power, something that was, let us say, repeatedly violated by previous budgets, the PSD and the CDS-PP, as well as they well understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let me mention one more question: if, indeed, in this part, the Budget is what it is, in terms of the financial life of the authorities, this Budget goes further and the Government's intention goes further. You've talked here about the contribution to ADSE and I can tell you. Members—maybe many of you do not know what exists in the authorities—which today in local authorities there is a double taxation for the ADSE system, i.e. local government workers discount 3, 5 % like all public service workers, and then municipal chambers pay all the bills themselves, i.e. there is a double taxation and that counts anything like 70 million euros in the overall budget of ADSE. So, what I can tell you is that we are working to produce legislation that comes into force at the same time as the State Budget to exempt local authorities, municipalities and parish boards, to pay for ADSE invoices, and the system for local civil service workers as it is for workers from all over the country, and thus we will have EUR 70 million to add to the universe of the budgets of the authorities. Finally, a final reference to the delegation and decentralization of competences. Indeed, the Government is committed to decentralization of competences and not to a delegation of competences. We have already talked about precariousness at work and in this regard I mean that we do not want to conclude term contracts in terms of delegation of competence, what we want to do is make an endless delegation, and that it is universal, in which municipalities are not chosen, one by one, for this or that reason, always having a final term for this contract to be concluded. What we want is the universality of the system for the total of 308 municipalities in the country. That's what we're trying to do, and that's what we're working on. I appreciate your attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u223	Mrs Berta Cabral now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State: I would just like to say that whether or not it is actually a matter for us to do so is an issue. I believe that although the PS is not very good at accounting, the Secretary of State can easily prove that the increase was more than 5 % and that Article 35. the Act No. 73 / 2013 states that the participation of each in the municipality in state taxes cannot result in an increase of more than 5 % of the share regarding the financial transfers of the previous year. That's what happened in 2015. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u225	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u226	Mr President, Mrs Berta Cabral, in fact it is a matter of being held accountable and, if we do so, we realize that the previous government in the 2015 State Budget has not complied with the Local Finance Act. [[Yeah, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u227	In fact, the previous PSD/CDS government in the four budgets it presented — and I am not talking about the corrections — has not complied with the Local Finance Act. Therefore, since we are even talking about the respect that we should deserve the autonomy of local power, we can also say that this Budget marks the beginning of a new time, a new way of looking at local power and our democracy, because in the various budgets of the previous government state, the local authorities were looked at as if we were talking about indirect government of the state. Thus, in this area too, the previous Government has shown its difficulty in meeting democratic rules. It is that if we look at the text of the Constitution, what we realize is that, by constitutional imposition, local authorities rise to a level different from the indirect administration of the State. That is, when we talk about local authorities, we are talking about autonomous administration rather than indirect administration of the State. But the fact is that the previous government, in the wake of the constitutional text, has sought a relative subordination of the local power to the central power. Intromissions were made completely unacceptable in the autonomy of the local power, which, in addition to all, created difficulties in the management of the municipalities themselves. Therefore, this Budget does not only start the replacement of family income and the recovery of rights that were withdrawn with the previous Government, it is also the beginning of the return to constitutional normality when we talk about local authorities. In fact, we can say that, for example, the taxes on government budgets prior to the local authorities that required the President of the House to request authorization from the Minister of Finance to hire a worker who needed the authority to respond to the needs of the people and so that the authorities themselves could develop their duties. That's already part of the past! Now, local authorities do not need Mr Finance's permission to hire a worker. But this is not the only thing that remains behind; it will also remain the tax that you had in your budgets and that required local authorities to finance central government bodies, because, in fact, and without prejudice to the work that has been developed by the Directorate-General of Local Administration, it does not have to be the municipalities, nor should it be, to finance the central government bodies. Thus, this Budget also falls this unconstitutionality which consisted of forcing municipalities to retain a portion of the FEF as a revenue from the Directorate-General of Local Administration. The gentlemen. Members well remember this because it was expressed in your budgets that the authorities were obliged to retain a portion of the FEF which was intended for the Directorate-General of Local Administration. Therefore, with this Budget, in fact, and since we speak about respect for local authorities, it should be said that the time has come to return to respect for the autonomy of local power, of local authorities, which is very important when we talk about democracy, because local authorities are not a distribution of finance, are part of the autonomous administration of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u228	Mr. Secretary of State for Local Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u229	Mr President, with due regard, as Mrs Berta Cabral knows, and she knows - as well as the president of the chamber that it was, the universality of what is the activity of a chamber is focused on the financial reason of it, but its diversity is much greater than that and it is in this universe that we should talk about. With this I do not want to excuse myself from seeing what the government's proposal is in financial terms, but it is good to refer to the following: the history of FEF transfers to the authorities of the last two years can be made, but it is much broader than that. Therefore, the conclusion reached is that during the four years of the PSD/CDS government the FEF of the authorities increased 0, 8. Repeat, 0, 8!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u230	You've been remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u231	So it is not good to just be referring to the last year's 4, 9 increase. It is that we started with 4, 9 increase in 2015 but, discounting the money of school transport, which is not a transfer, is a payment of a service, in 2011 we started with less than 5 % of what had been transferred in 2010. This is the truth, this is the reality! But we're talking in 2016 and that's what interests me the most. This budget provides for an increase of 1, 25, this increase which is transversal to the 308 municipalities, dealing with all equally, which is not always, not always to say rarely, happened in the last four years, and also treating all equally with regard to the hiring of people. In fact, the honourable Member knows as well as I what difficulties the municipalities have had to hire, because they had this need, especially for schools and cultural services, not being able to do so. They are now able to do so, just as it will be released in this exercise the limitation of leaders that has been imposed. It is from this university that we are talking about, Mrs Deputy, and let me tell you that in my duties I have run many inter-municipal communities, I have spoken with many autoarchs of all the political changers and all of them—all of them! — they have received, and very well, this proposal for a State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u232	We are now moving towards Article 65. o — Transfers to capitalisation. It is an article in Chapter VI — Social Security. Mr Rodrigues has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: It is of the utmost importance for the PSD to ensure the strengthening of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, which represents an essential cushion for all pensioners. The former government, thanks to prudent policies, ensured the strengthening of the Social Security Stabilisation Fund by more than EUR 4 billion. We are talking about more than 45 % of valuation which resulted from the valuation of public debt during this period too. at the end of 2015 the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security had more than EUR 14 billion thanks to these prudent policies of the previous Government. The question posed to the Secretary of State for Social Security is: how does the current Government provide for a strengthening of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund of more than EUR 1000 million, when the Fund has only been losing value since the beginning of the year, as a result of Portugal's increased credit risk? My second question is also addressed to the Secretary of Social Security. The Social Security Basics Act provides that 2 % of workers'contributions are allocated to this Fund as capitalisation. The question that the PSD raises is the following: how is it possible in a State budget that intends to turn austerity not to comply with the provisions of the Basic Social Security Act? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u234	We turn to Article 67. o — Transfers to active employment and vocational training policies during 2016. For an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For Article 67. I should like to point out that the PSD does not trust the Government of the Socialist Party to continue to support the unemployed and businesses. I have to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our priority that public employment policies continue to work towards increasing people's integration into the labour market, and that is precisely why we do not trust, we do not subscribe, because that is not our path. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to Article 69. o — Suspension of the system of updating the value of the indexer of social support. For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will make a joint intervention on some matters and, at this stage of discussion of the speciality of the Budget, we want to highlight three issues which, because of their importance, are measures to establish social justice: strengthening the support of unemployed workers; increasing the value of pensions; and defusing the indexer of social support. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In our country only one third of the unemployed have social protection. Thousands of workers who lose their jobs and then lose their unemployment benefits without any social protection and are considered too new to reform and too old to work. The creation of employment with rights is the necessary solution, but these unemployed workers immediately require an answer. For this reason, the CFP presents an extraordinary measure to support the unemployed in extending the social unemployment allowance for six months. It is an answer of protection and dignity in the lives of thousands of unemployed people who may range from 40 000 to 50 000 unemployed per year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP also proposes an extraordinary increase of €10 in the value of pensions with the conviction that it is necessary, just and possible to increase the actual value of pensions. This proposal is part of others which the CFP wants to discuss so that, within the framework of the legislature, it is possible to regain the power of purchase lost and dignity in the lives of pensioners and pensioners. in our country about 80% of pensioners take a pension of less than 628 € and many of them face immense difficulties to survive with poor pensions. For this reason, we will also present proposals for improving the pension updating mechanism based on criteria that go beyond inflation and economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The indexer of social support has been frozen since 2009, conditioning the access and value of social benefits. The CFP intends to implement the defrosting of the social support indexer, thereby ensuring the increase in the value of social benefits and the extension of the number of beneficiaries. These are proposals that support progress and social justice and we would like this debate to be able to come out of the perspective of the thawing of the indexer of social support. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u240	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This Article 69. the suspension of the system of updating the value of social support indexers is another example of the lack of coherence of this new majority in relation to what he says and what he does. Otherwise, let us see: this indexer was suspended in 2009 by the Socialist Government; this suspension was maintained by the PSD/CDS government for compelling reasons of crisis and because we had the troika in Portugal and you constantly criticized it, saying it was austerity for ideological reasons. Now, this State Budget maintains this suspension and I ask: is it no longer austerity? Is this the page turn of austerity?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u243	More: the PCP, and still now Mrs Rita Rato has just intervened, does not fail to surprise us because she does not present any amendment to this Article 69. as you did in the past when it was government the PSD and CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u244	He didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u245	And, Mrs Deputy, what the CFP said at the time - I am going to read - was: « The indexer of social support maintained in 419, €22 resulted in a significant devaluation of these support and pensions. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I ask you: are you now not putting forward proposals why? Don't you hurt your pensions any more? Don't you hurt any more support? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u246	You didn't hear my speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u247	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of democracy and for the good of Portuguese, be rigorous and consistent in what they say and do. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u248	To intervene on Article 69. o -A, on extraordinary pension update, has the floor Mr. Filipe Lobo d’Ávila...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u249	Mr President, I am sorry, but I have asked to register the Secretary of State for Social Security to respond to these last three or four interventions on these articles on social security matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u250	You then have the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There has been no change to the Fund's investment policy on the issues raised on the FEF and therefore any fluctuations result from the markets as they have resulted over the past four years with valuations and depreciations of the Fund. with regard to the transfer to the FEFSS ( Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security ) over the past four years the percentage provided for in the Social Security Bases Act has not been respected and therefore the 400 million are not true. with regard to the IAS and its freezing, I want to recall that the IAS was frozen in 2009, it is true, and it remained frozen in the following four years by option of the PSD/CDS Government, since it was not a measure that was contained in the original Memorandum. In 2015 we no longer had the troika here, and the previous government continued to choose to maintain the freezing... [[PSD protests.]] Of course, this year the government had to make choices and... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... we have made the updating of pensions which — Mr President. Members, perhaps, are distracted —,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... corresponds to the replacement of Article 6. that of the law of the IAS, i.e. Article 6 has been replaced. this law, which corresponds to the updating of pensions, if they have not understood this. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u252	Yeah, they didn't understand, but maybe it's important to check the change that was made in the pension update. Therefore, the law of the IAS is partially restored this year, with the updating of pensions, and we will have the conditions to restore all the law of the IAS next year, that is the commitment we have made. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u253	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents an amendment to safeguard the purchasing power of more than one million pensioners. This is a proposal that ensures that minimum, social and rural pensions will be updated annually at least in the value of inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u255	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u256	We're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the poorest pensioners, pensioners who have no voice and those who, whenever possible, the Socialist Party seeks to harm. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u257	Thus, in 2010 when these pensions were frozen, and so back in 2016, when they propose an increase of 0, 4 % being the last expected inflation date of 1, 5 %. Mr. João Piinho de Almeida (CDS-PP): - - Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u258	Those who in 2015 propose increases of €25 / month, such as the Left Block and the PCP, and who will approve this State Budget accepting for a year everything they promised for each month, now have a new opportunity to demonstrate whether they are on the side of these pensioners, whether they maintain consistency in the proposals presented here in this Parliament or comply with increases of €1 when they propose €25 / month. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must move from words to acts and we will see how your coherence will be. This proposal presented by the CDS is an act of greater social justice, is a test of the consistency of the parliamentary left benches and is an act of defense of these pensioners. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u260	Mrs. Members, I would like to remind those who have not yet exercised their right to vote in Chamber D. Maria elections for bodies outside the Assembly, which will take place until the end of this session. I now give the floor under Article 69. o -A, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As regards Article 69. the -A, the Portuguese Communist Party also presented a proposal and we very much liked to see it presented, because the PCP, with it, has acknowledged that this government budget, which the PCP has supported, has no social sensitivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u262	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u263	When we were in the government, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, we increased the lowest pensions to a value above inflation, even with troika and socialist bankruptcy, and for the CFP they were insensitive budgets. Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]] This government, which the CFP supports, itself envisages an inflation of 1, 2 % and increases pensioners by 4 tenths, i.e. pensioners lose, with this government and this budget, 0, 8 % of the real purchasing power. Where are you, ladies and gentlemen? Members of the CFP, the outrage with social insensitivity? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u264	You didn't hear my speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u265	Shut up and come and simulate that with one hand what the government that supports takes away with the other! What are you waiting for? PCP Members? That the PS, which says there is no austerity, is ashamed of its own inconsistency and approves of the proposal? What, despite the unsustainability of the proposal they present, is there a re-editing of Mr Vieira da Silva's logic of 'we have now increased and cut to a later stage'? Or, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is this the socialist budget that the CFP will take as its own? If the proposal from the CFP is not approved, do you take the social insensitivity they recognise to this Government budget that they support? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u266	There is an appeal to the Bureau of Mr João Oliveira, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u267	Mr President, it is a request on the conduct of the work to put the following problem: we are already used to the fact that in the debate on the speciality of the State budget there are some differences between the time when the parliamentary groups make the speeches to present their proposals and the time when other parliamentary groups had planned other interventions. Now, we have just heard in the last two interventions, both the CDS and the PSD, the idea that the PCP did not present its proposal on the increase of pensions, which we have just done through the intervention of Mrs Rita Rato...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u268	No, no! Don't confuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u269	Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes was distracted, she'll have to listen to the recording...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u270	Don't confuse! Don't confuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u271	... either in relation to proposal 169 - C, of an increase of 10 euros in pensions, or in relation to other proposals which include the increase in pensions in the legislature which the CFP wants to discuss in the Assembly of the Republic. I would therefore ask the President whether, obviously, it is possible to repeat the explanation given, or whether the rapporteurs do not harm the time of the CFP. Members of the PSD and CDS must even consult the recording to be able to respond to what they do not want to respond to. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u272	Mr. João Oliveira will excuse me but you know what the answer to your question is. The way parliamentary groups use their time and lead their intervention is a problem for parliamentary groups. Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the interventions we have heard recently from the PSD and CDS banks, I cannot fail to congratulate Mrs Joana Barata Lopes because for the first time, we have heard the PSD acknowledge that it has only increased the lowest value pensions and has not increased the minimum pensions. [[Congrats from PS and BE Members.]] In fact, it has increased the lower value pensions, but this - and we can explain to the exhaustion, I have no problem - it is not for poorer pensioners. The fact that a pensioner receives a minimum pension doesn't mean he's poor... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The fact that a pensioner receives the minimum pension... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u274	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the conditions for the Secretary of State continue to apply. You have the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u275	In fact, a pensioner who receives the minimum pension and is a beneficiary of the solidarity supplement for the elderly (CSI) is poor. What happened in the last four years was a cut in the value of the solidarity complement for the elderly while updating some of the lowest value pensions. And maybe it's important to explain a little bit how it's calculated and what this supplement is. The solidarity supplement for the elderly is the allocation of a value to which the value of the pension is deducted. It is a very simple mathematical account: if we increase the value of the pension and decrease the value of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, at the end of the month, this pensioner will receive less than he initially received, because he receives more than 10 € of pension and less than 20 € of solidarity supplement for the elderly. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] And that's what's happened in the last four years. It is therefore important to restate the truth on this issue of pension updating. The updating of pensions for pensioners of lower value who are not beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly is not benefiting the poorest elderly. The increase in the value of the solidarity complement for the elderly is, yes, benefiting the income of the poorest elderly. But I am also referring — I have already mentioned in this House — that, for the PSD and CDS, a pensioner who paid 29 years for social security and has a minimum pension for these years maintained a pension of €303. This, yes, seems to be social justice for the former Government PSD / CDS. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u276	Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in recent years, the right has kept almost all pensions frozen, not even all minimum pensions have been increased and has always proposed arbitrary increases. And what we have today are annual increases and from rules that are valid for all. In addition, it is worth remembering what the right, the PSD and the CDS did to pensioners: it cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly to 70,000 people. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Therefore, the amendment proposed by the Left Block here is an additional increase of 37 € in the solidarity complement for the elderly. It is a small budgetary effort that is more than fair and will certainly make some difference to the more than 200 000 pensioners who live below the poverty line. contrary to what has been done and what has been said by the CDS and the PSD, with this political solution and with this majority the cycle of degradation and impoverishment of the last four years has been interrupted, in which the frozen pensions have been kept and in which the CIS has been cut off to so many thousands of people. If this proposal from the Left Block is approved, the timid update of pensions is added, in total, an increase of 150 € per year for poor pensioners. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] It is the difference between the increase of 2 €, which the CDS proposes, or an increase of 12 €, which is what the left is voting here in Parliament. You understand the difference, sir. Ladies and gentlemen? It's just making an account of poor pensioners. It is clear that this proposal does not solve all the difficulties and that much more needs to be done, but it is a concrete step towards improving people's lives. It is not propaganda, it is not for English to see, it points to a path that must be deepened, it is consistent with a income recovery policy and corresponds to a desire for justice that goes through the country. What a pity that your benches are not in tune with this desire for justice and have already announced that they will vote against this increase in the CIS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u278	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion of this article is the mirror, it is the image of the achievement that this Budget is and of the achievement that this majority seeks to deceive the Portuguese. Let us be clear, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block in November 2014 for the State Budget for 2015, propose an increase in minimum, social and rural pensions of €25.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u280	One and the other!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u281	One and the other. The CFP, now—is true Mr João Oliveira —, shamefully,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u282	Embarrassed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u283	... come propose 10 €— already there are 15 €. Therefore, the conviction of the PCP cost €15 since it came to power and since it supported this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u284	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u285	So, the gentlemen. Members may want to stay at the door, they may want to escape from the photograph, they may even not want to take the picture, but they will vote — vote, vote! They will vote for a State budget that increases minimum, social and rural pensions to 201 €, 241 € and 262 €, in less than 1 €, when one year ago they propose an increase of 25 €. Therefore, €24 is the value of deception, lies, deceit, lack of coherence and even the lack of political honesty of the Left Block and the PCP! They can run away, but this one doesn't run away. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u286	Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to refer to the statement by the Secretary of State for Social Security on the issue of the social support indexer ( IAS ). The indexer of social support is an essential tool for the calculation of social benefits, especially the social benefits of the most precise population. It happens that long before the crisis in 2009 the Government of the Socialist Party froze in 419, 22 € this value and it happens that you fill the mouths of the country that changed, that austerity no longer exists, that now are no longer necessary these difficult and austere times that we live and, however, VV. Ex.as, in the State Budget for 2016, propose the same value of the indexer of social support, thus freezing a large number of social benefits. Now, timidly, and in a way that I would classify as an exercise of ambush and sophistication, they come to say: "Yes, yes, yes, in 2016 we're still frozen, but it's already said that in 2017 we're going to freeze it." Mr Secretary of State, do you think this is a serious way of doing politics in Portugal? Do you think this is a serious way of responding to the most deprived citizens of this country, Secretary of State? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u288	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u289	Mr President, it must be without prejudice to the time of the CFP that we make this clarification, but we cannot allow ourselves to avenge the falsification that has been made either by the CDS, or by the PSD. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the CFP has made the presentation of the proposal that it has brought to this State budget, and has done so by placing it in its proper terms. The PCP proposes an extraordinary increase in pensions of 10 €. And this proposal is framed with others that we want to discuss in the Assembly of the Republic to achieve two other objectives: firstly, that in the framework of the legislation it is possible to restore to pensioners and pensioners the purchasing power that the former Government has withdrawn from them and so that it is also possible to set criteria for updating pensions that go beyond inflation and economic growth and that they can effectively ensure that thawing is done with gains of purchasing power for pensioners. On this, obviously, the PSD and CDS would have preferred not to say anything and Mr Nuno Magalhães has decided now to make the falsification...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u290	No, no. You'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u291	... concerning the proposals of the CFP. They are presented because our commitment is that and the proposals here are fulfilling our commitment. But I wanted to record an aspect that seems significant to me: 10 minutes ago, the PSD and the CDS were talking about the IAS. It has already been noted that due to the insistence of the CFP on this matter and the assumption of the commitment by the Government, with a proposal already submitted, the IAS will be thawed in 2017 and the CDS has already « swallowed the hat », as it has not even spoken of the IAS. The truth, ladies. Members, it is this: the CFP insisted and a proposal is submitted to defuse the IAS in 2017, extending the beneficiaries of social support and increasing its value. And how will the PSD and CDS vote? Will they continue to vote against thawing? Are they going to continue to want to perpetuate the freezing of the IAS or are they actually going to shake hands and assume that, with this Budget, if you open up the prospect of doing something for the beneficiaries of social benefits, which you have never wanted to ensure, that it was the thawing of the IAS? [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u292	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u293	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u294	Mr President, we have just heard from Mr João Oliveira that the CFP had put forward proposals on minimum, social and rural pensions that were not for the period of one year, but for the period of a legislature and with criteria. He asked you, Mr President, to distribute proposal 38 - C of the CFP, submitted in November 2014 on the State Budget for 2015, which provided €25, as well as that of the Left Block, which also provided €25. Mr President, I would also like to say that, in the case of the CFP, as Mr. João Oliveira said that it was exactly the same and that I tried to make a forgery, perhaps it would be a mistake, so we are available to agree on the CFP, then to present a new proposal in which instead of reading 10 € goes to read 25 €. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u295	Mr President, please send the documents to the Bureau for distribution. Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to explain to Mr Adam Silva the question of the law of the IAS. The main impact that the update of the IAS has is on pensions, and this update is returned only with this State Budget. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We did not need to update the IAS to increase the ISC reference value, increase the reference value of the ISC and change the equivalence scale, increase the disability bonus, increase the value of the family allowance, increase the increase of single-parent families, increase the value of the assistance allowance to third persons. We didn't have to change the law of the IAS to do all this. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] But I would also like to point out that the PSD/CDS government has not only done this because it has not decided to do so, because in the initial memorandum signed with the troika there was no impediment to updating any of these social benefits to combat poverty. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Yes, it was later introduced in the amendments that you made to the Memorandum of Understanding for purely political choice. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u297	Mrs. Members, let us turn to proposal 150 - C, a Rule 69. the B— Social pass beneficiaries. Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal from the CDS is simple to understand and coherent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u299	He's not consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u300	What we do is we give more people the opportunity to have the right to mobility, that is, we extend the indexer of social support from 1, 2 to 1, 5. What does that mean? We increased from just over €500 to €628, thus allowing many more families and many more users to access school, university and work. There are others, such as the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, who preferred to favour a small group of people, relatives, particularly the railways. That is, it is a small right given only to some of a public company to the detriment of guaranteeing everyone...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u301	It's not to the detriment, don't be demagogic!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u302	...more access to the right to transport, more access to work, more access to school. It's an option. What we do is give an opportunity to correct, that is, rather than give in to the interests of a partner of the coalition, they give in to the interest of the general population, who needs to get to school, university and work. This is our proposal, consistent and simple. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u303	There are no further requests for a word on this article, Mr President. Members, we are now considering proposal 55 - C, submitted by BE, adding a new article, Article 70. o-B — Amendment to Decree-Law No 232/2005 of 29 December concerning the solidarity complement for the elderly. Mrs. Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group recognises the importance of supporting the elderly. It is a social benefit of the greatest relevance, created by a socialist government, but it is not systemic, often dependent on subjective evaluations. Our path is different: social benefits must be systemic and transparent in their allocation. The PSD has another path: increased minimum pensions above the inflation of the year. This government is proposing increases that reflect the loss of purchasing power of the poorest pensioners. Our path is to the strict and gradual replacement of everyone's incomes, especially the poorest, because this is the safe way to lasting social justice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u305	In order to intervene on behalf of the Government on this new article, the Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Susana Lamas, very quickly, I would just like to clarify that there is a social benefit given with strictness and with an enormous and rigorous condition of resources is that of the solidarity complement for the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It may be important to read the legislation and understand how this benefit is attributed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u307	Mrs. Members, having completed the examination of this proposal, the Bureau shall record only requests for intervention concerning Article 83. o — Financing of the State budget. Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the confidence that the Portuguese have in the government's ability to manage the public thing is largely measured by the transparency with which it accounts. The practice of budgeting, which consisted of hiding, companies and institutions that were outside the state, charges that were effectively the responsibility of the State, led largely to the climate of mistrust that was in relation to Portugal, when the former Government took office in 2011, and contributed to the financing crisis that we lived at that time. For the past four years, many things have changed in this field. And in the report published by the IMF in May 2014 it was recognized the significant progress made towards increasing budgetary transparency, particularly in view of the situation that had been observed at the beginning of the Adjustment Programme, in 2011. In particular, the IMF refers to improvements in monitoring PPPs and local finances. Unfortunately, this significant progress in terms of transparency seems to be called into question with this Budget. Mrs. State Secretaries, why did the Government feel the need to specify this article in particular only the indebtedness of some entities and not all entities in the perimeter? The practice of budgeting is extremely harmful to the Portuguese's confidence in state management and market confidence. In particular, I ask whether it is intended to maintain the same transparency standard as the previous Government has achieved and which has been recognised both by international institutions and, perhaps more importantly, by increasing Portuguese confidence in public debt and reducing the risk premium on public debt. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u309	We turn to Article 85. o — General conditions of financing. The Bureau only records Mr Manuel Rodrigues'request for intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the State Budget for 2016 provides for a reduction in the deficit and debt reduction, but this article increases the global debt increase limit for 2015, which is inconsistent. Question: How does the Government intend to ensure the reduction of deficit and debt, while at the same time it is expected that the deficit in public accounts will increase more than EUR 850 million compared to 2015? How is it possible, when we look at the State Budget for 2016, to verify that the difference between deficit in public accounts and deficit in national accounts is more than EUR 1300 million? In 2016, this Government plans to refinance and finance EUR 43 billion at an implicit interest rate below 2015. This means that in 2016, this government plans to refinance almost one fifth of all public debt. This budgetary policy, a risky budgetary policy present in this State budget, exposes Portugal to a higher risk premium, which takes the breath of growth and employment generation. I would like to put a second question to the honourable Members. Government members : how does the government plan to fund in 2016 at an implicit interest rate below 2015, when for example the 10-year public debt is in a maximum of two years? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-10.u311	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers requests for intervention and, as had been established, this morning's discussion on the articles of the proposed law No 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) until Article 91. o. Therefore, today there will be no further discussion in the speciality of the State Budget for 2016. I was asking the ladies. Members who have not yet exercised the right to vote in the elections to bodies outside the Assembly, to address Chamber D. Maria, since the polls will close 15 minutes after the closure of our work and there are votes that require a qualified majority. I therefore ask you to pay particular attention to this matter. The next plenary session will take place on Monday, 14, at 10 a.m., for the continuation of the debate, in the specialty, of Bill No 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 56 minutes.]]
