ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 16 hours and 7 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.os 99 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Changes in the territorial limits of the parish of Valongo ( PSD ), which fell to 11. the Commission, 100 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation or cultivation of genetically modified agricultural varieties ( GMOs ) ( PCP ), 101 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes an exceptional period for regularizing the situation of officials and officials of the State and administrative bodies as well as employed or employed workers who have served as Timor-Leste ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 102 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — prohibits the production and commercial cultivation of genetically modified organisms ( repeal of Decree-Law No 72 / 2003 of 10 April and Decree-Law No 160 / 2005 of 21 September ) ( PAN ), 103 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products for professional use and adjuvants of plant protection products and defines the monitoring procedures for the use of plant protection products ( PAN) and 104 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — annuls the suspension of the payment of pension supplements to the employees of the undertakings in the public sector and restores the conditions for the allocation of these supplements in the field of collective bargaining ( BE ) ; draft resolutions 88 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by promoting the row of Indian figs ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 89 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the Cantanhede hospital under public management and effective hiring of professionals who respond to the permanent needs of their functioning ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 90 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assistance in scale in Portugal : combating precariousness, promoting the safety, quality and reliability of air transport ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 91 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — To resume the negotiation of ACEP on workers of the Institute of Registers and Notaries ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Fund's hospital and the necessary investment in it ( BE ), 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of pension supplements to employees of enterprises in the public sector ( PS ), 94 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the hospital in Santo Tirso, as well as the necessary investment in the hospital ( BE ), and 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Hospital de São João da Madeira, as well as the necessary investment in it ( BE ) ; and Parliamentary inquiry No 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into management and the process leading to the sale and resolution of the Banif International Bank ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u3	Mrs. Members, the first point of our work is the evocation of Antonio de Almeida Santos, former President of the Assembly of the Republic. I will turn to vote No 30 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of Antonio de Almeida Santos, former President of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR, PS, PCP, PSD, CDS-PP, BE, The Greens and PAN ), following the intervention of the various parliamentary benches at the end. The voting shall be as follows: « It is with deep dismay that the Assembly of the Republic registers the death of its former President, Antonio de Almeida Santos. Almeida Santos lived until his last day committed to the cause of his life: the cause of citizenship. It is not easy to summarize in a few lines all the richness of the course of a figure such as that of Antonio de Almeida Santos. He was one of the great statesmen of Portuguese democracy and one of his most prominent architects. This is certainly the place that history holds out to you. Fighting for freedom, he was a protagonist of the three Ds of 25 April: Democracy, Decolonization and Development. Even before April 25, he was a strong against fascism and dictatorship in Portugal, fighting for democracy and freedom in our country. He has always exercised with great political competence and undeniable patriotism various and relevant services to the public cause. He was Minister of International Coordination of I, II, III and IV Provisional Governments, Minister of Social Communication of the VI Provisional Government. He served as Minister of Justice in the Constitutional Government and as Deputy Prime Minister in the Constitutional Government II. He was also Minister of State in the IX Constitutional Government. He was a member of the Council of State between 1985 and 2005. Elected Member between I and IX Legislatures, it was highlighted as an excellent tributary. Between 1991 and 1994, he served as leader of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, a party of which he was President between 1992 and 2011, and was President of Honorary Group. He was President of the Assembly of the Republic between 1995 and 2002. Lawyer and lawyer renowned and cult, writer and interpreter of the fado of Coimbra, was a humanist who both portrayed the bulk of the Republic as he realistically reflected on the environmental risks and challenges of globalization we are facing. Having stood out in several domains, it left an indelible mark in the most relevant laws of the Republic. It is therefore precisely remembered by many as a great legislator of democracy. Almeida Santos was an exemplary Democrat, increasing both by his intellectual qualities (it was a living intelligence) and by his human qualities. Always generous, always conciliating, always present and merciful and therefore very fond of all, as we could testify in the manifestations of sadness and deep sorrow that his death has stirred. As President of the Assembly of the Republic, it has always been able to prestigious Parliament, having deserved respect for its peers, who have also always respected, regardless of political differences. on the day he took possession he summarized his programme to three priorities: prestigious Parliament, prestigious Parliament, and prestigious Parliament. He fully carried out his action programme. It leaves a very vivid memory with all the officials and colleagues who have come across it. And it left a mark that parliamentary history will remember as a modernizing brand of the Assembly of the Republic. It was with him that Parliament grew, with new facilities. It was also with it that Parliament successfully adapted to the enormous challenge of new technologies, particularly the Internet. Finally, he was committed to consolidating the approach to the new generations through the Youth Parliament, a project he wanted to embrace. He left a more modern Parliament capable of carrying out his duties. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, indicates its death, transmitting to its family (in particular to its daughter, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos ), as well as to the Socialist Party, the most significant grief. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP expresses its deep regret at the disappearance of one of the most important politicians in the country. Incredible fighter for the ideals in which he believed and for the interests of Portugal, he earned, with merit, the respect of all, including of political opponents, using (who had the privilege of depriving him) of a brilliant and balanced combination between cordiality and intelligence. Since democracy is made by people, it will certainly have its imperfections, it is up to us all, however, to continue to contribute to its enlargement. To this end, we count on the legacy of personalities such as António Almeida Santos, who showed us how to learn a certain philosophy of language based on the capacity of dialogue and political consultation, for the causes that we all ultimately defend: a more humane, solidarity and justice society. It is with great respect that we honour today this fighter for freedom, valuing the lessons he leaves us and honoring his passage through the history of Portuguese democracy, by a more lucid and global vision, of our ephemeral presence on earth. The PAN presents its condolences to the family and friends of Antonio de Almeida Santos, no doubt a human being who will continue to inspire us to be and do more and better! [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u5	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words of The Greens are to express the most heartfelt condolences to the family of Almeida Santos and that will certainly not lead me to harm if I particularise here Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos. I think it will be absolutely understandable. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, there are people who have paths that, in certain segments of life, make them great. And, therefore, it is very difficult in short words to talk about these segments, these paths, these lives and those people in concrete. That's what I'm saying, of course, Almeida Santos. I would like to highlight his role in the fight against the fascist regime. Every man and woman who had that role was a builder of democracy and freedom. Almeida Santos was a constructor of these very high values. I personally met him here in the Assembly of the Republic, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, in the Parliament which began in 1995. I can therefore personally testify that it was a President of the Assembly of the Republic who prestigious this Parliament. If that was your goal, as Mr President has just read, it has been fully fulfilled. And you have prestigious him with other institutions, you have prestigious him for the Members of the Assembly of the Republic and for all those who, not being Members, form, on a daily basis, this Parliament and have prestigious him for the citizens, in their relationship with the Assembly of the Republic and in the relationship which Parliament has with the citizens. It is not just a matter of importance. I would also like to highlight an official journey that we made to Cape Verde, consisting of a representative of each parliamentary group, accompanying the President of the Assembly of the Republic of the day, because it was there in Cape Verde that I heard him interpret the fado of Coimbra. And, Mr President, I was not the only one to be absolutely dazzled. It was surely for this fact, I remember, at the time, the hero of the night and it was a long night to hear him interpret, with the greatest taste, fado of Coimbra. After I stopped being President of the Assembly of the Republic, I occasionally found him in other situations. You know, Mr President, sometimes here in our work in the Assembly of the Republic, we have often had a more institutional relationship, while, in these subsequent meetings, we have come to know other facets of the people we do not know in detail in this daily work. And, in those rendezvous, I confirmed that Almeida Santos was a man of profound affection and, in attitudes, absolutely affable. Every time we found this manifestation of affection, which he always had, it was absolutely comforting, coming from whom he was coming. Almeida Santos has left us many writings, he has left us many memories in these writings, which he also decided to share with us, and also many other writings which, not being memories, constitute challenges for other generations, namely challenges of ecological order and thinking about globalization. These are challenges that we must grasp in our thoughts and actions. Mr President, I end by again addressing my deep sorrow on my own behalf and in the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party to the family of Almeida Santos and, of course, also to the Socialist Party. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u7	Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Family members of Dr. António de Almeida Santos : Dr. António de Almeida Santos has been, is and will continue to be in our collective memory one of the most distinct figures of Portuguese democracy. He was an opposer of fascism, particularly in Mozambique, where he, after 25 April, he,, stimulated the group of democrats in Mozambique, and took on the highest responsibilities as a member of the Government and Member of Parliament. As a member of the Government, he served as Minister of Interterritorial Coordination, which was the designation that he met for the member of the Government responsible for the decolonization process, and took on enormous responsibilities in this difficult process. He was, as the vote points out, the Minister of Social Communication in the provisional governments, the Minister of Justice in the I Constitutional Government, where he played a very important role in adapting the Portuguese legal order to the state of democratic law, enshrined in the 1976 Constitution, having produced, so many times by his own fist, laws structuring the democratic regime, and was also Minister of the Presidency of the VI Constitutional Government. As a Member of the Assembly of the Republic — and I belong to a generation of Members who have the privilege of exercising the parliamentary mandate under their presidency — in addition to living with him in this Assembly of the Republic, I recognize Dr. António de Almeida Santos as one of the great tribunes of the Portuguese Republic, by eloquence, by the rigor and by the quality of his interventions as a Member. It has already been said here that in this House the presidency of Dr. António de Almeida Santos is a milestone. There is one before and one after the working conditions available in the Assembly of the Republic, including under the working conditions for the Members, in which a huge modernisation of the Assembly has been known, and also in contact with the citizens, and it is not too much to emphasise that the Canal Parliament, which today brings the parliamentary work to all our citizens, was in fact a realization that is associated with the presidency of the Assembly of the Republic by Dr António de Almeida Santos. It was a personality with enormous political and personal courage. The work — almost memories — that gives us about his political life is an impressive testimony of the courage with which he has always faced the political challenges he has faced throughout his life in the various positions he has exercised. Almeida Santos leaves us a written work revealing a great literary talent and a great thinker, of someone who, with his reflections, agrees with them or not, always asked us all and always stimulated our ability to think. Portuguese democracy thus loses one of its distinguished representatives. I would like, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to extend our condolences to the Socialist Party and its relatives here present, which we welcome. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u9	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Family of Dr. António de Almeida Santos : We owe the former President of the Assembly of the Republic, Antonio de Almeida Santos, the respect and consideration he has always devoted to the CDS. In democracy there are gestures and principles that are beyond political borders and beyond ideological lines. Almeida Santos was a respected President of Parliament and in the various political options he always knew how to be a President who considered and treated all Members and all parliamentary groups alike. I have known him in this quality and I am a witness to the consideration that everyone devoted, regardless of age, to the statutes or political ideas themselves. That doctrine, which we often call 'democratic and parliamentary cordiality', was well expressed. Certainly he had different ideas from ours, sometimes even antagonistic, but he never left to defend them with elegance, respect and an undeniable sense of humor. A man of political causes has always used respect as a method and dialogue as a standard. He said of himself: "Even when I am frontal I can establish limits to my frontality. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is not because we have been in different fields that we no longer recognize its fine intelligence, a capacity, as few, to cultivate the Portuguese language, either in its written form or in its sung form, and a conviction that you have always put in defense of its political causes. It is also the memory of a President of the Assembly of the Republic who is always concerned about defending the prestige of the institutions and responsible for the beginning of the modernization of Parliament, especially by opening Parliament up to voters and often by taking what is happening here outside Parliament. That is why, to your party, the Socialist Party, your friends, your family and, in a very special way, your daughter, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, we present our heartfelt condolences. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u11	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To speak of Antonio de Almeida Santos is first of all to speak of a fighter for freedom and democracy. When that long night denied plurality, opinions, democracy, he fought to make it possible that ray of light that brought us all that was previously denied to us. Almeida Santos, already quite involved in political activity, felt in the skin when he was denied his possibility of candidacy in the lists of the democratic opposition to the National Assembly by the fascist regime that oppressed the country. He knew how to learn and how to be one of the great architects of this transition to democracy and builder of many of the pillars of legislation under which we still have our action today. He was a minister, member of the Council of State, man of culture, singer/interpreter, as he was remembered here, but above all I wanted to highlight the parliament that he was, the legislator who was and the President of the Assembly of the Republic who has never ceased to be in the memory of many and many. In fact, in Parliament, those who have the ability to deal with different ideas with frontality and firmness, but they are also able to make bridges, because it is only possible to be remembered as President of the Assembly of the Republic and to be praised for having done that role. And this was the legacy that left us. I think he summarized himself as none of us would be able to do so, and so I will read one of his definitions. He said: "I was basically a legislator, as a politician. Legislation is the registration of change." I believe that as few as he left the mark on the change to the democratic regime with such strong writing. Almeida Santos was involved in many of the hottest files of those times and he himself also chose as fundamental points the changes in the Civil Code. Now, here I identify, this was the Civil Code which, for example, opened doors to the emancipation of women and the beginning of the end of gender inequalities. This is the legacy that he leaves us as a parliament, as a politician, as a man and, obviously, that the Left Block is associated with this vote, and he cannot fail to pay tribute to the family, friends and to express sympathy to the Socialist Party, of which he was honorary president. Allow me, as I think it is natural that this happens, to welcome, in particular, the Member who works with us, knowing all of us that he always tries to keep up with his father's legacy, a difficult legacy to reach, and that he shows as well how death is only a passage and how such a record of change, of whom he wrote so strongly the lines of history, will never be erased. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u13	Mr. Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: President Almeida Santos was an exceptional man. He has left us an indelible mark in the institutions he has served throughout his public life, as, just as rightly, so many and so authorized voices in the last days have witnessed, and he leaves an immense longing in all those who have deprived him of it. A jurist of excellence, an indefectable democrat, a coherent and convincing political, but always respectful of his opponents, an untiring fighter for the noblest of the causes: the dignity of the human person. All this portrays and describes in an exemplary way President Almeida Santos. But for me, the greatest distinguishing mark of its character was its human dimension, in the greatness of the human relationship and in respect for one's neighbor. in this chapter, he was simply insurmountable! It was in the observation, in the truthful comment, in the criticism or counseling, apart from his unusual eloquence, that his continuing elegance was not only disarming as it instilled in everyone a huge consideration for his person. by courtesy, by the relevance of its arguments, by the depth of analysis and by the rare faculty of knowing how to listen and think rationally what was the opinion of others. Many times he received this courtesy, sometimes I disagreed with him, although always with admiration for the strength of his arguments, but he always grew in me a deep respect, that respect that we reserve to those we choose to follow as a model. It is like a true patriot, a gentleman of politics and, above all, like a good man and a good man, that I keep in my memory. The Assembly of the Republic has lost one of its great ones, many of us have lost an example and a friend. To his family, his daughter and the Socialist Party, which he so illustly represented, on my personal behalf and on my bench, I present our solidarity and our deep respect. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u15	On behalf of the Government, the floor is Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies: António de Almeida Santos, major figure of our country, freedom fighter, architect of our democracy, man of the very living intelligence, of giant heart. Cult thinker, brilliant writer and, forgive me, socialist, one of the biggest and best Portuguese socialists. With its disappearance, Portugal lost a central figure in the construction of the democratic regime. António de Almeida Santos marked our collective history as a fighter for democracy before its establishment and as a fundamental participant in its consolidation after 25 April 1974. The legislator of a substantial part of the legislative building of Portuguese democracy has contributed to the launching of the pillars of the democratic rule of law. As Minister of various provisional governments, he played a crucial role in negotiations with the liberation and independence movements of the former Portuguese colonies. As Minister of three constitutional governments led by Mário Soares participated in the consolidation of the young Portuguese democracy. As a Member and President of the Assembly of the Republic, it has consistently endeavoured to dignify parliamentary democracy. António de Almeida Santos will always be a symbol of Portuguese democracy and its civic and political intervention, led with conviction and courage, will remain in the memory of all. He also had a central role in the construction and affirmation of the Socialist Party in Portuguese society, he was president of the Party for 19 years and was currently its honorary president, in a fair tribute given by all socialists. He left us a literary work, which all challenges and challenges, where he expressed his ambitious and visionary thought, always concerned, not only with the present, but also with the society and the planet that we will leave to future generations. To evoke Almeida Santos means to remember a man with unique capacity for political consultation and negotiation. That is also why it supported the recent constitution of the current government. in his words: “A taboo is finished! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” however, this was only possible because, in the past, fighters for democracy as it allowed the capacity of dialogue and dialogue to be the basis of government action. But perhaps the biggest lesson that we have left is that there is no age of reform for political and citizen intervention. Democracy exists to be exercised always as long as we have strength and until the last day of our lives, so was the António de Almeida Santos. It is with sincere regret that the Government of the Portuguese Republic today leaves Antonio de Almeida Santos in the House of Parliamentary Democracy, which he so well knew, expressing his most sincere condolences to the family, to Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, associating himself with this tribute of this extraordinary man, politician and humanist. All the time, President. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u17	Finally, Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the day we say goodbye to Antonio de Almeida Santos, it only happens to say that Antonio de Almeida Santos did not die. Do not die people whose living greatness puts them above their time or beyond their time. Those people who may have held the highest positions in public life have always given them much more than they have ever received. Those people like Almeida Santos who, even in the absence, leave the mark of their constant presence in the hearts of the men and women they have associated with. Almeida Santos will always be remembered as a great patriot and one of the greatest figures in our democratic Republic. For his country's sake, he fought from Mozambique, as a lawyer and citizen, for the cause of freedom against dictatorship, for the cause of human rights and in defense of political prisoners. For the sake of his country, he worked after 25 April 1974 to achieve dignified conditions for decolonization whose ways of realisation were not always his. For the sake of your country, such as Mouzinho da Silveira, it has been revealed in several governments and in Parliament, as one of the great otherwise the largest, legislator of the foundation and consolidation of the democratic regime. For the sake of his country, he gave the Socialist Party, until the end of his days, the best of his generosity and the honorary president of all socialists will continue forever as an example of dedication to the causes of equality, justice and progress. For the sake of your country, the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Almeida Santos deserves in this House a place of pantheon for the exemplary testimony of institutional elevation, independence, fraternal conviviality, capacity for innovation and constant magnification of the democratic values common to all the benches of the Hemicycle. For the sake of your country, the man of reflection leaves us pages, many pages, of the finest literary cut and so many of them of deep and demanding meditation on the paths of the world. « Worry», asked us the António Vieira of our time, he himself most concerned with the incommensurable problems of today, reflected on a global scale and making us realize that we live in a world that is of all and whose destiny everyone is responsible for. For his country's sake, Almeida Santos affirmed himself as a faithful collector of history that identifies us as a people and as a nation. As a man of established roots and always assumed in his childhood Beira and in his youth coimbra. The soul of Coimbra where the sung word and the sound of the guitar overflowed in it a humanity always ready to move and to move us already with longing for it, hearing and being close to it. Because of love for your country, statesman Almeida Santos, the generous friend and comrade of all hours did not die. Through his legacy, he will continue, as he has always been, a Portuguese law. Forever, for so much that the words are not enough to say, thank you Almeida Santos and also thank you for the very sincere and moving words spoken by all the parliamentary groups. I also send an embrace of great solidarity to Maria Antonio, to the brothers, to the mother Margarida, to the whole family, after all to a family so wide that we are all proud to be part of. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Jorge Lacão. Indeed, the last words I said are those that unite us all, in addition to many more, that were said yesterday and today. I suppose there has never been anyone of the call, improperly, "political class" who had died and had truly had the appreciations that Antonio de Almeida Santos had yesterday and today. Therefore, his last words are those we must retain: thank you very much, Antonio de Almeida Santos. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this regret vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute of silence, followed by acclamation.]] Mrs. Members, we will continue our work with an urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on the replacement of social supplements and the fight against poverty. For an intervention during the opening of the debate, Mr Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has decided to schedule an urgent debate because it is urgent that we speak when we talk about the replacement of social minimums and the fight against poverty. in the last four years, and in one of the poorest and most unequal countries of the European Union, we have had no social ethics in austerity. We had, yes, discharge, cynicism (excessive) and, above all, social savagery in austerity. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was urgent to halt the social backwardness in progress and that is what this government, faithful to its electoral commitments, tried to do with the urgency that the issue requires. In almost all areas of governance, the economic crisis of recent years has been used by PSD and CDS as a pretext for implementing a radical ideological agenda. He didn't escape anything, not even the social minimums. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are not unfounded accusations, but facts: PSD and CDS have reduced the income of the poorest and most vulnerable, either by the destruction of employment, which has thrown thousands and thousands of Portuguese into poverty, either by cutting social benefits, reducing their value or making their access difficult. Many of those who were not poor became poorer and those who were already poorer were even poorer. It is difficult, not to say impossible, to look at the last four years and see something other than devastation and social backwardness. Until this government took office, there were more than 262,000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion than in 2011. In each month of PSD / CDS governance, there were more than 5000 poor per month, 2000 of which children and young people. Repeat : plus 5000 poor per month! This did not happen by chance but by deliberate and conscious choice of the PSD and the CDS, which decided to turn an economic crisis into a huge social crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Particularly serious was the increase in poverty in the elderly. The risk of poverty in the elderly increased for the first time in many years with the PSD/CDS government after a long and consistent decline trend. [[So did it increase or not increase?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u21	This happened, despite the update of the lowest value pensions, because the propaganda around the minimum pensions, which we have seen in recent years and which, unfortunately, we continue to watch, is just that: propaganda. It propagates, for two reasons: firstly, because they did not increase minimum pensions but only the minimums of those who had short-contributory careers — less than 15 years of discounts — social and rural. The minimum pensions for those who had longer contributions remained frozen. They remained frozen for four years and would remain frozen for four more years by 2019, since that was what was included in the PSD and CDS programme. Secondly, and more importantly, because they cut the solidarity complement for the elderly (CSI), the benefit that is attributed to pensioners who are effectively poor. The PSD government / CDS cut 113 € per year(9, 42 € per month) in the reference value of the solidarity complement for the elderly. This court has affected more than 228 000 poor elderly persons and has no longer received this benefit over 69 000 elderly persons. It was the previous government that, by option, protected the poorest elderly, with low pensions, and protected the elderly who, despite having low pensions, do not necessarily live below the poverty line. The increase in the poverty of the elderly is therefore directly related to the ideological policy options of the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To better understand the nature and the result of the ideological options on the right, I leave an example: a pensioner in the social pension, beneficiary of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, who has no income, besides his pension, had an increase in his pension in the last four years, of €12, €01, due to the updating of the pensions. This value was and is celebrated by PSD and CDS as a great fact, but what these parties forget is that this same pensioner suffered a cut of 21, 43 € in solidarity complement for the elderly, thus receiving less in 2015. [[But did it, after all, increase or not?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u22	This pensioner had a cut in his income, not an increase, as the parties on the right claim. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Social ethics in austerity? Only in the head of those who, in the PSD and CDS, have wagered a wrong strategy, more expensive, less effective and who effectively protects who is poor. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Government increases much more pensions than the right party proposes, as well as restores the reference values of the CIS, thus reintroducing justice in social protection to the poorest elderly, in order to ensure their minimum levels of dignity and subsistence. But we do not limit ourselves to combating the poverty of the elderly. We also invest in other social rights of citizenship, such as social income of insertion ( RSI) or subsidies ( increase in family allowance and prenatal allowance and increase in single-parent families benefiting from family allowance and prenatal allowance ). It is not charity but investment in social rights that recognize the dignity of our weaker citizens and in greater difficulties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A society does not become more dignified, or more cohesive, by repeating the slogan « Social ethics in austerity», often with a solemn and charitable air, but by betting on the correct social policies. at the end of four years of social backwardness, that is what the government, this government, is doing. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The policy of replacement and placing on social minimums is threefold effective: it is effective from the social point of view and from the point of view of poverty and social exclusion; it is effective from the budgetary point of view and is very effective from the economic point of view; it is therefore an essential pillar of the economic recovery package contained in the PS Government Programme. Along with the increase in the minimum wage...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u23	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u24	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, along with the increase of the national minimum wage to €530 ( €600 up to the end of the legislature ), which benefits more than 650 000 workers, the replacement of social minimums and the progressive elimination of the overtax are a significant bet on the income of the poorest. Apart from the social dimension of this bet, it is never too much to value the economic impact of this option. There is no more effective way to boost domestic demand than to strengthen the income of its poorest and most vulnerable members.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u25	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u26	I will now finish, Mr President. In the language that « first, it is necessary to produce, create wealth and grow to then, yes, distribute», the PS responds saying that redistribution is also essential to ensure the sustainable growth of the economy. contrary to the right, for whom social policy is seen as a favor that the richest do to the poorest, the PS understands that, in social policy and in combating poverty, there are no favors, no charity, but, yes, a set of social and citizenship rights, that is, more equality, without which we will hardly have more growth and better employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u27	The Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security spoke for the opening of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dear colleagues of the Government: Portuguese society continues to be marked by situations of social fragility, increased inequalities and exacerbation of situations of poverty and social exclusion. The degradation of employment levels, the deterioration of their quality and remuneration, the weakening of most social protection instruments, particularly those aimed at combating poverty, explain this development. in the implementation of its Programme, the Government has taken a number of decisions aimed at recovering income levels, in particular the most deprived social sectors, and at strengthening the effectiveness of social policies promoting equality. I will highlight five measures of greater scope. First: updating the national minimum wage. The minimum wage continues to play a major economic and social role. It is now seen internationally as one of the essential elements to ensure an inversion of the trend towards the growth of wage inequalities and to reduce the situations of workers living below the poverty threshold. The rise of the minimum wage for €530 was decided by the government and preceded by a wide debate in social dialogue. This debate has led to the conclusion of an agreement, although unanimity has been possible on all points and on all partners. This increase should cover more than 650 000 workers and also have a positive effect on the dynamics of the economy, particularly on domestic demand. Second: the replacement of the pension update formula, which will allow an update by the inflation value of all pensions with values below once and half the social support indexer ( about € 628 ), which represents about 2, 5 million pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This measure, however, has to be assessed together with a third: recovery of the solidarity complement for the elderly, social benefit with enormous potential to combat the poverty of pensioners and which has been duly devalued by the right government, either because its reference value has been reduced, or because it is no longer the target of disclosure and promotion, which is essential in a social benefit for the elderly who are not automatic and depends on a process of requirement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, empirical evidence and scientific studies clearly show that investing in a benefit as the solidarity complement for the elderly is the most effective way of walking towards the goal that no pensioner lives with incomes below the poverty threshold. And this is an essential goal in any social protection system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fourth measure relates to child poverty, which has unfortunately been highlighted as one of the most dramatic aspects of degradation of the social situation in our country in recent years. The effort to combat this critical point has already had a first response in the growth of family allowance by increasing benefits by 3, 5 %, 2, 5 % and 2 % respectively in 1. o, 2. o is 3. the steps, and the increase of 16 %, 15 % and 14 % for single parent families on the same scale. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this measure of single-parent families are covered by about 270 000 children and young people. A fifth measure has to do with the intensity of poverty, that is, the distance to which the poor are situated from the threshold, and which has worsened significantly in recent years in Portugal. The devaluation of anti-poverty instruments, particularly extreme poverty, has been one of the causes of this worsening. Thus, the recovery of the social efficiency of the social income of insertion will be achieved either through a recovery of its reference values or by changing the scales of equivalence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For example, a minor will have as reference 50 % of an adult’s income and not 30 %, as the 2012 legislation has set. This measure means an increase of this value in 36 € for each child. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that the recovery of social balances and the promotion of equality are not easy targets to achieve, in view of the scale of the social backwardness we have lived in recent years and the uncertainty that still persists. On the other hand, the changes we have identified today cannot be disconnected from other measures of the same meaning and which have a high economic and social significance. I am talking about the salary recovery of public administration workers and the reduction or extinction, for many families, of overtax at IRS headquarters. The improvement of the social situation can never be disconnected from the ability to stabilize and recover the economy. An inclusive, socially and territorially balanced growth is one of the main conditions for promoting social cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But public policies will always play an essential role in defending social balances and in combating inequalities. That is why the Government will continue to deepen policies with these objectives, in particular by strengthening measures to support the income of poor workers and also by mobilizing all civil society actors to promote inclusion. We will seek to do so by strengthening transparency, the ability to vote and the debate around the action of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, we will remain loyal to the central objectives of our government action: to grow more, with better employment and with more equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u29	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, coming into the debate itself, for an intervention, have the floor of Mr Pedro Roque.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u30	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The theme of combating poverty is the ultimate and most noble end of political activity. However, we may have a partial and compartmentalized view of it or, rather, a systemic vision, where financial and economic components do not go far, since social complements want to combat poverty involve State financial resources and there will be, in the first stage, to obtain them in the subsequent phase, to redistribute them. The social state is a civil gain, no doubt, but taking care of the creation of wealth to cope with its sustainability must be the first of political concerns, since it is not based on rhetorical or utopias, politically correct, of more or less radical lefts. The evidence of this evidence was too obvious, in the recent past, when a socialist government, of which many of today's ministers, did not take care of the public thing. As a result, Portugal entered the default, needed another humiliating international financial rescue and saw its social policies inevitably affected. [[PS protests.]] In fact, it is a case study of political science that we have witnessed in 2009 the wage increases in the Public Administration well above inflation and on the eve of elections to, following them, introduce cuts in wages between 3, 5 % and 10 % and a Stability and Growth Programme 2010 - 2013 and their sequels, where, in social matters, cuts and freezings were the word of order, in the face of growing lack of control of public accounts. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u31	It should not be forgotten that it was the PS, the PS government which then reduced social benefits; that it introduced the condition of resources in the RSI (social income for inclusion) and significantly reduced its assigned amount; that it frozen minimum, social and rural pensions; that it introduced a special contribution applicable to pensions above € 1500 and the suspension of pension indexation rules. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In mid-2011, the PSD/CDS coalition government had the patriotic mission to rebuild Portugal. They lived difficult times, corresponding to the implementation of a Memorandum of Understanding, which was no longer a postbook that could be voted upon on a quarterly basis by the troika, and, depending on its observation, the essential steps were released for the State to be ensuring its functioning and to discharge its responsibilities on issues as socially relevant as paying salaries in the Public Administration or social benefits. Although highly conditioned, the previous government saved the Portuguese with lower incomes, asking those who had a further contribution and creating a Social Emergency Programme that cushioned the effects of austerity on the weakest and most unprotected. But with effort, Portugal has recovered confidence, the path of growth and international prestige, ensuring its attractiveness to investors, a sine qua non for economic growth and sustained job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u34	However, the new socialist governance, resulting from a bizarre parliamentary interpretation of the voters' will, seems to have learned nothing from the mistakes of the past. In fact, there are already worrying signs in economic terms: in addition to international uncertainty, which we do not dominate, we have again, in Portugal, debt interests showing nervousness; the unemployment rate — which has continued to decline since the beginning of 2003 — to stagnate; private investment, confidence rates, and industrial production to withdraw. Internationally, we are back on the radar because of this new PREC — a process of ongoing reversal, as someone has already defined — in which everything is intended to reverse, and already! , without taking care of prudence, of progressiveity, and inducing the consequent increase in expenditure. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] But unlike the 1975 PreC, this time the PS Directorate seems to want to put the party on the wrong side of History, because of the tactical pacts with the PCP and BE, being hostage to their utopias, whims and humors... [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u35	Mr President, pay attention to your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u36	... although, often, she herself acquires an even more radical rhetoric and with a clear political objective. Is this government, confronted with the Leninist interpellation of « what to do? », that is, with the dilemma between fulfilling the pacts with the extreme left, on the one hand, and international responsibilities and the sustainability of public accounts, on the other hand,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u37	Mr Pedro Roque, I thank you for concluding, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u38	... opts for an irresponsible flight forward, in search of a mirror inversion in polls, and the precipitation of elections, which, this time, can try to legitimize their governance. It is that the rain of international criticisms to government policies and the light manner as it is questioning what, with so much effort, has been obtained by Portugal are not very reassuring signs. The signs of the formation of a possible perfect storm begin to form and there are already those who compare us to a second Greece, so it will be realistic to keep in mind that « from the Capitol to the Tarpeia Rock » will not go any further than a small step.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u39	Mr President, I should like to thank you for taking note of the Bureau's appeal and please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u40	I should like to conclude by saying that we sincerely hope, on behalf of the national interest, and especially those of the most socially disadvantaged, that this will not happen to Portugal. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u41	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This afternoon's debate on the replacement of social supplements and the fight against poverty is of paramount importance in the context of the new cycle we live. It shows very clearly that we finally have a government of national impoverishment today. It's no big deal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This new orientation, which values income and combating poverty, is essential for a decent policy, at the service of people and those who need it most. But it is not possible to do so without demonstrating what was the right propaganda, throughout the last legislature: the script was always the same — everything seemed to be going to build, but it was already ruined! His country model has always been based on a policy of internal devaluation, attacking labour incomes and social minimums. If reality did not « beat» with Excel, reality, « obviously», it was wrong;... [[PSD protests.]] ... if irrevocability assumes a definitive character, the dictionary, « obviously», is that it has been revoked; ideological orthodoxy is that it has been ever stronger than the good sense of evidence and the protection of the most disadvantaged. That was an option! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was an option on the right, which was always executed with special zeal and dedication, at the service of a more unjust, more unequal country and certainly a much more arbitrary country. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this was also an option based on the deepest cynicism of previous rulers, some of them sitting here today, because they impoverished, while talking about fighting poverty; because they made the country more unjust talking about social justice; because they talked about the elderly, while the risk of poverty increased for the first time during your government, after a long tendency to decrease;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... because they talked about pensions, while they kept them frozen outside the adjustment program; because they talked about defending the family and increased the risk of poverty for children;... [[PSD protests.]] ... because they said it was not possible to strengthen State intervention, at the same time reinforcing funds for mere public assistanceism. And while they were doing this and much more said they didn't fail. Well, obviously they didn't fail... Unemployment increased, poverty shot, debt didn't fall, privatizations were done, income was cut, emigration was at the level of the 1960s... But PSD and CDS didn't fail, and they didn't fail because this was and it's still your program! [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] It is the program of a poorer country, the program of a country based on low wages and a miserable economy for the majority and profitable for very few. They never had the courage to say, but «a lie takes a whole turn to the world before the truth even has a chance to dress up». It is up to us to say this, eye to eye, debate this afternoon, PSD and CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] Inebriated by its lexicon, the right does not tire of speaking of a supposed geriatric that supports the XXI Constitutional Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u44	Whenever it does, referring to the new majority, the right is disqualified and diminished! But it is curious that they speak so much of poorly constructed artifacts, according to the definition of geriatrics in the Portuguese dictionary, which, I presume, is already that of the CDS. Because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what about the other taxpayers' party, which made a colossal increase in taxes? What about the missing party of taxpayers and pensioners, which increased poverty among pensioners? [[All right!]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u45	What about the parties of the social market economy, which have worsened all our social indicators in Portugal? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The questions are rhetorical, because we know very well where they are and, above all, where they have been over the past four and a half years. And that is why it is very understandable that your speech does not come out of the collage of unsafe things. That is what they left the country and that is what they will have to answer from this government and from the banks that support this government. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u46	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The new government has promised and is fulfilling. We are updating pensions, we reject the reference value of the solidarity complement for the elderly and we increase the national minimum wage. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] The course we started is clear and translates a new public action that values work and combats poverty and exclusion. We want not only to manage an unfair socio-economic system, but to transform it. We do not accept the idea of less state for better state, less labour rights for more employment, less access to public goods for greater efficiency. And for a simple reason: because we lose, as Country, when we remove from the center of our action the fight against inequalities, the regulation between capital and labor and we start to believe that structural reforms are not those that allow a society in which no one stays behind, but those that leave us the poorest, the most disadvantaged and the most unprotected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the big difference between the parties that support this government and the parties on the right. This is a frontier that we do not accept to go beyond, and that is what this afternoon's debate is clearly demonstrating. Finally, Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, with one question: considering the proposals on the right, we knew that PSD and CDS wanted to maintain the freezing of a very considerable portion of social security contributions. I ask you if you can tell us what percentage of the pensions of the elderly who have made discounts for the social security contribution scheme that will have increases with the PS proposals and the difference in the impact of these proposals on those we had with the right coalition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u47	Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A society that tolerates poverty and an economy and a State that promotes it, as has happened in recent years, is a society that does not respect itself. And so today, we have discussed these measures: the increase in the national minimum wage in a country where one in 10 workers is poor; the increase in the reference value of the solidarity complement for the elderly, in a country that in the last three years has seen an increase in the rate of poverty among the elderly, after 10 years to have decreased; the increase in the reference value of the social income of insertion, which is the last resort for those who no longer have anything else and which, above all, is a benefit that has, among its beneficiaries, thousands of children; the updating of 80 % of pensions, after pensioners have been assaulted by the previous government...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u50	... of the pensions had been frozen and even the previous government had intended to promote a new cut of 600 million in pensions. All these measures are a relief to millions of Portuguese, are a possibility to breathe and are a first step in line with the policy of impoverishment and austerity, which in Portugal has had tragic results of increasing inequality, increasing poverty and increasing social suffering in our country. It was on behalf of the pensioners, who were crushed, that it was on behalf of the workers and the unemployed, who were persecuted, that it was on behalf of the poor that a set of left-wing parties signed an agreement and a new majority to start responding to these people. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] We therefore welcome these measures, which honour the commitments agreed upon. None of us have any doubt that these measures are beyond what needs to be done. None of us ignores that the pattern of inequality in Portugal continues to be intolerable, that pensions remain too low, that minimum pensions are moving away from the national minimum wage, that wages continue, even with this increase, often not to allow the dignity to which all workers are entitled. So we need to make this new path, which we are starting, and on this new path we need wages that allow workers to get out of poverty, we do not need subsidies from employers to keep low wages. We need to diversify the sources of social security funding to have more resources for pensions, for social support for the unemployed, for social support for the poorest, we do not need to reduce the TSU to withdraw revenue from social security. In this new way, we need inclusion policies that allow people to participate and access to health, training, mobility, housing and culture. We need no mistrust of the poorest, the unemployed, fifteen-year presentations, employment-inclusion contracts which are forced forms of work. We do not need to continue the contracts and protocols that were made on the right and that were a business and a form of deresponsibility of the State. for our part, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we will not lack any income recovery measures, nor will we lack a poverty reduction strategy that covers these various dimensions and will be able to respond, on behalf of all, to democracy and human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u51	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate takes place the day after the Constitutional Court sends back the vital subsidies of politicians, subsidies that should never have existed. The PS frozen the minimum, social and rural pensions of the poorest and this was constitutional, but putting a roof of 2000 € in the subsidies of politicians, who have other incomes, is no longer constitutional. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The PS felt at ease to freeze pensions of €200, but to set a ceiling of €2000 in the subsidies of politicians who have other incomes that the PS does not contest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u54	This is the concept of social justice of the Socialist Party, from the left and from the dominant doctrine of the Constitutional Court. All that the Socialist Party is pleased to resolve today was the Socialist Party itself: freezing of the national minimum wage, freezing of minimum social and rural pensions, end of 4. o is 5. the steps of the family allowance. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in good time today, the CDS-PP delivered in this House a bill to safeguard the purchasing power of more than one million pensioners: those who have the minimum pension, social pension and rural pension, the poorest pensioners, who have no voice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u55	They're not the poorest!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u56	...that they cannot defend themselves and that the Socialist Party always intends to harm. [[PS protests.]] So it was in 2010 and so it was again in 2016. [[CDS-PP applause.]] in fact, it is inexplicable as is that pensions of 201 €, of 241 € and of 262 € will be increased 0, 4 % when the last expected inflation data is 1, 5 %. That is, they will have increases of 1 € per month and, at best, 3 cents per day.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u57	Solidarity complement for the elderly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u58	The extreme left, in this Parliament, should be ashamed! They have just accepted, by 2016, an annual increase that is inferior to what they have been promising per month. [[CDS-PP applause.]] They promise, per month, what they now accept for the whole year. We have the legitimacy to say this: while we had responsibilities in social security, minimum, social and rural pensions, had increases well above the value of inflation, exactly the opposite of what the Socialist Party is preparing to do. In 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 inflation amounted to 3, 3 %, while the increase in these pensions was 6, 2 %. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u59	And don't come with excuses, as we saw right now. They do not come with excuses, saying that improvements in the CSI compensate for the penalties for minimum, social and rural pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u60	Of course they make up for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u61	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u62	It's fake! It's fake! What you promise is to recover 60 000 people in the CIS, which we, in fact, have already proposed to the PS itself. But the number of pensioners who will lose purchasing power with your 3 cent increase prejudices 1, 1 million pensioners. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The pensioners, exactly the poorest, are not 60 000 CIS, are more than 1 000 000 pensioners, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u63	There were two hundred and a thousand!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u64	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the situation experienced by workers and the Portuguese people is marked by the increase in poverty and the degradation of living conditions. This is a reality that is inseparable from four years of PSD / CDS-PP, which imposed unacceptable cuts in wages and pensions, which depleted social benefits, cutting into unemployment allowance, family allowance, social income of insertion, in solidarity supplement for the elderly, leaving unprotected hundreds of thousands of children and more than 200 000 elderly. Almost 3 million Portuguese at risk of poverty and more than 640 000 are children and adolescents; 21% of pensioners and pensioners are in poverty; more than 1 million workers in unemployment, of which more than half have no income or social benefits. This is the reality that has the profound brand of PSD and CDS-PP, which guided its action and its policy options for promoting unemployment, precariousness and exploitation and for worsening poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u67	When social support was required for people with disabilities, PSD and CDS-PP responded with very low benefits and pensions and cuts in social benefits, but in the meantime they handed over millions to the bank. When children and young people with special needs were required to strengthen support, PSD and CDS-PP cut into special education, they changed the allocation of special education allowance, directly discriminating thousands of children and young people and leading to severe clinical setbacks in these children and young people, who were forced to interrupt therapies, because families, without support, had no conditions to ensure them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u69	When it was necessary to guarantee minimum living conditions for the elderly, PSD and CDS-PP cut into the solidarity complement for the elderly. When it was necessary to guarantee rights to children, PSD and CDS-PP cut into the family allowance. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic opened up the prospect of restoring rights, rights that were withdrawn by PSD and CDS-PP. We note as positive steps the increase in family allowance, the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the social income of inclusion and the freezing of pensions, which, although positive, is insufficient. We believe it is important to ensure the actual increase in pensions. We know that the fight against unemployment and poverty is not tied to the fight against its structural causes and requires a more general way of valuing work and workers, valuing wages and pensions, a policy of economic growth, greater justice in the distribution of wealth and raising the living conditions of the people. But it is also necessary to address the many situations of poverty, taking on social benefits as a fundamental role here. The CFP will be here, as it has always been, to contribute to the construction of a path of progress and social justice, to improve the living conditions of workers and the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u70	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the dramatic situation in which thousands and thousands of Portuguese are brought to complete misery, while a small minority of people continue to accumulate wealth, is absolutely unacceptable, socially intolerable and to all unjust and immoral titles. We well know that the tragedy of poverty and the deepening of inequalities are not a problem now, but we also know that over the past four years the problem has gained truly worrying dimensions with the PSD/CDS-PP government, which has multiplied poverty and spread misery at an unprecedented rate. A government that said there was no money for family allowances, wages and pensions for social support or half a million unemployed who did not have access to unemployment benefits, but who had money for tax forgiveness to the New Bank and other operations of the same type. However, for people, cuts have come in wages, reforms and pensions, a brutal tax burden, cuts in social benefits, frightening restrictions on access to social support, dismissals in the Public Administration and ease of dismissal in the private sector. All helping in the generalization of poverty! Now, with a new government and a new parliamentary framework, it is time to start looking at people and view the problem of poverty as a very serious problem. It is time to start fighting poverty, because this fight is an essential prerequisite for social justice and also for the sustainable development of the country. It is time to return income — and a return as sustainable as possible. It is time to increase family allowance and pensions. And the path begins to be made, as it shows the replacement of the social minimums, approved by the current government at the end of last year and the mixes in the reference value of the solidarity complement for the elderly, a social benefit that aims to increase the income of pensioners with lower pensions, since, as we know, the previous government, with changes in the reference value, ended up excluding thousands of beneficiaries of this important benefit. But we could also talk about the freezing of pensions that the current government has promoted. And it was exactly about this, Minister, that I had a question to address. from the perspective of The Greens, the freezing of pensions at the end of 6 years—is a very important measure, but in our view this thawing should be complemented by the real increase in its value. That is to say, we are talking about measures that indicate a path, which point to a sense, but which are still insufficient to break with the impoverishment imposed on pensioners and pensioners by the previous government. I should like to know if you share this reading, that is, if you also agree that the measures that the Government is taking are fair, you are welcome and even you are going to meet the commitments made with the parties on the left, but you are still insufficient to break up with the impoverishment imposed by the PSD/CDS-PP Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u72	To conclude the first round of the debate, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u73	Mr President, this set of interventions — and I would like to thank the questions addressed — has revealed some politically interesting data. on the right-hand side, now separated, we heard interventions at least contradictory. The PSD came to say: « There are again socialists threatening the balance of accounts and threatening excessive expansionist policies»! on the side of the CDS-PP say the opposite: "No, if we were in government, we were more generous and effective in social policies, particularly in pensions". I will not ask them to understand each other, but I will ask them to be at least a little more coherent. So let's talk about pensions. It has been very frequent over the last few years to hear the right benches, when they were in government, saying that minimum pensions increased every year, that minimum pensions policy was extremely generous. Many efforts have been made by the opposition benches by asking the Government some essential questions, such as by asking how many pensioners were on the various levels of minimum pensions. We've never had an answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u74	Now you have the answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u75	Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us speak the truth, because what you have done, in the face of the minimum pensions of the contribution scheme, was to increase only those of pensioners with contributing careers under the age of 15.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u76	The lowest ones!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u77	All pensioners with minimum pensionable careers aged 15 to 20 years, 21 to 30 years or over 30 years did not have 1 cent increase during your governments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They will say to me: 'It is true that the pensions of these pensioners are a little higher'. It's true! Because they had longer-contributory careers. But still, in relation to careers between 15 and 20 years, now pensions are still worth €275. Is this a millionaire pension? [[PSD protests.]] And more, sirs. Members: the option to increase, in the contribution scheme, only pensions with lower careers is extremely questionable, because often, like the honourable Members. Members should know that short-term pensions are pensioners who have had the opportunity to create, in particular abroad — and are at the hundreds of thousands — other contributing careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u78	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u79	What is true is that many of the poorest pensioners are those who have worked and have discounted 40 years, or 30 years, or 35 years and who, for reasons we all know, have not reached pension values that would free them from poverty. It is this reality that the right has always hidden. I have never said that in the contribution area only 35 % of pensions took an increase. We are now in a position to clarify that all the other pensions were actually frozen, which, I say, are not millionaire pensions, are even pensions for elderly people who, in many situations, are faced with more difficulties than pensioners with shorter contributions careers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then there is another reality, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It's just the ladies. Members of the PSD and the CDS say that they have increased minimum pensions, « those minimum pensions»... — they have never said so, but I now say: « those minimum pensions»! But they also did so at the cost of reducing expenditure with other social benefits to combat poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The balance must be that. in recent years, the amount of expenditure on minimum pensions was EUR 30 million, but only in the solidarity supplement for elderly people the expenditure is below 90 million over these years, not to talk about the social income of inclusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was with the poor that you would find the source of funding for what they claimed to be the great social justice of the 30 million pension increases. Therefore, it was a wrong policy from the point of view of social effectiveness, misleading from the point of view of the frontality and reality of the numbers and which urged to be corrected. When they now talk about the policy of defrosting the law of updating pensions, it is true that it is a significant step. It is not just for this year; it is a policy that updates pensions based on inflation, but on recorded inflation rather than on the inflation discussed, and it is a policy that needs to be seen in conjunction with the increase in the resources made available to pensioners in the context of the solidarity complement for the elderly. It is therefore an integrated policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that the freezing of pensions, which now covers 2, 5 million pensions up to the amount of € 628, translates into a low increase this year, precisely because the inflation of the previous year was very low. But this thawing has a vision not only this year, but a vision of Legislation and of the replacement of legality, legitimacy and stability in updating the value of pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that we all want to have the possibility of stronger, heavier increases and, as you said, more robust. But, of course, there are limitations and constraints to which we must respond. Mr. Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, when he speaks in the vital pensions of politicians it is necessary to tell the whole truth and not just a part of the truth. Because you are addressing the government of a party that has effectively put an end to the vital pensions of political agents! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And not just the Members. Of course it wasn't all of them, but it was almost all the political agents. And put an end to it! What he has not done was to question what had been the state's commitments with other citizens. You didn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u80	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u81	But he did what you never did, which was to put an end to the existence of vital benefits that did not depend on contributing careers or other social conditions. It was the Socialist Party who did it when he was in government, and he's proud to have done it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] I would also like to address Mr José Moura Soeiro, saying that we naturally agree with the fact that some of these dimensions of social intervention policy in the fight against poverty and inequality are still insufficient and are a step towards ensuring greater effectiveness in this area. We have social dialogue, political dialogue and we have the mobilization of society for this fight. It is not a fight that can be won only by the State, but it is a fight for equality, against inequality and against poverty. It is a fight against which the State cannot resign, of which it cannot desert and cannot cease to be the first actor in policies for the promotion of equality and the fight against poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For those who do not understand it, this is the fundamental basis that unites us: the understanding that public policies are responsible for the crucial role of structuring an integrated social response so that we can be a more cohesive country, a less unequal country and a country that can respond to the challenges of all generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u82	Please conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is the way that looks at the reality of the Portuguese, which does not use subterfuges to withdraw rights to employees of companies, only by a rule of the Budget. This will not be the way of this government, but rather the way of building social policies at the service of progress, development and social cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u84	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the second round of the debate, which will have a new framework of time available. First of all, in accordance with the order established, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u85	Mr. President and Mr. Members of the whole of the interventions, including the intervention of the Government, must point out that there is a fundamental difference between the situation that this Government has found in public finances, and that in some way allows social benefits to be updated, and the situation that the previous Government has found, not only in the field of public finances, but above all, in the social benefits itself, which, above all, should be remembered, were still cut during the Socialist Government, even before the intervention of the Programme for Economic and Financial Assistance ( PAEF ). It is therefore necessary to say and remind again that social austerity comes from far before and that it is mainly due to a policy of governance and to waste public money, a policy that has had no other remedy or consequences but, in the first stage, to cut social benefits and, in a second phase, for the third time since 25 April, an international financial rescue and also for the third time called by the hands of the Socialist Party and its governance. That is an inexhaustible truth, which is factual and that no one can deny. Obviously we are all in favour of the social state and the fight against poverty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u86	Some don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u87	... however, it is important — in order not to happen to us what happened in 2010 and until mid-2011 — that the country does not need to knock again at the door of international financial creditors, putting itself again in a situation of economic, financial and social protection that no one wants, especially the most disadvantaged and those most in need of State support. So that's the criticism I'm leaving. It is not so much a criticism, it is another warning we make to the government: the signs that come to us from abroad, economic operators and European institutions do not allow us to rest and we are afraid that the situation can get worse, even because the main indicators are stagnated or in reverse. [[PCP protests.]] This is the situation we bring here. We obviously have nothing against social benefits updates if they are fair and compatible with the increase in expenditure and the balance of public accounts. It is of no interest to help people in the short term, as happened with civil servants in 2009, to then withdraw their incomes because the country does not have the capacity to honor them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u88	Mr Luís Soares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, would begin my intervention by asking you, as regards the governance of these two months before guardianship, if you can bring to this House a concrete picture of the social situation in the country. Mr Minister, I would also like to know, in the context of the country's social situation, that a causal link can be established with the XIX Constitutional Government Programme, led by the PSD and the CDS. And I would like to remind myself of what is being said in the 19th Constitutional Government Programme, which made three very concrete commitments in the area of social policy. The first commitment said that governance would be made by combating poverty and by betting on inclusion and social cohesion. The second compromise said that, in view of the current situation, it was absolutely impossible to opt for ways that would lower social protection levels, especially the most disadvantaged. The third commitment, in fact in the expression and affirmation of the principle of the dignity of the human person, said that no one would be left behind. Now, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to see that the question I leave here is a rhetorical question. It is a rhetorical question because we are all led to agree that it was not only economic policies, but also the social policies of the previous majority that led us to the social emergency situation that we are living today. So, Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, I wanted to say the following: on the one hand, it was economic policies that reduced the income of families and threw many families and many people to the threshold of survival and below that threshold, on the other hand, it also contributed to this the sweep of policies put into practice by the Socialist Party, as was the case of the solidarity supplement for the elderly or social income of insertion, which were absolutely abandoned by the previous majority. I'm done, leaving two final notes. The first note is that in these two months of governance, the Socialist Party leaves a mark, a mark of difference, a mark that recovers the social policies abandoned by the previous Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those same ladies. Members should be ashamed, precisely because they have abandoned the policies that fight inequality and poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u91	I leave a second note to say that we are different from the former majority and from the former government. We are different because the XXI Constitutional Government, unlike the XIX Constitutional Government, is fulfilling the Programme that was brought to this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u92	Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate we hear the benches on the right and we do not believe ourselves: from the extreme right of parliament, the Member of the CDS presents himself as a supporter of pensioners. Mr Member, the overwhelming majority of pensioners, 80% of pensioners who now see their pension updated are those who had their pension frozen by their government, frozen by the CDS! Until minimum pensions the CDS kept frozen: minimum pension of 274€ — frozen by the CDS ; minimum pension of 303€ — frozen by the CDS ; minimum pension of 379€ — frozen by the CDS! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Mr President, even the few pensions that you have raised were an outrage, because what you have raised with one hand took the other by cutting off the solidarity supplement for the elderly, which has reduced 10€ in their reference value per month! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u94	Your rage will be exposed to the world!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u95	That is why, Mr President, the Left Block is proud to have hit by the freezing of pensions and to have contributed to include this in the agreements that have been signed and that have allowed this solution. And everyone knows that the poorest pensioners get better, all of them, with this left-wing agreement than they would have with the CDS policy. And the CDS just doesn't get red saying this because he's not ashamed. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] I also wanted to say, ladies. Members of the CDS and PSD, who are worth recalling what was the tragedy of the policy of the last government with regard to combating poverty. It is that when we needed public services and equality in order to combat poverty we had alms, charity, canteens; when we needed employment policy, we had persecution of the unemployed and cuts in wages; when we needed health policies, especially for the poorest, we had the degradation of the National Health Service, we had the increase in moderate rates or the delivery of hospitals to the mercy, politics that is now happily being reverted. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we needed social solidarity to combat poverty, what did we have in the PSD and CDS government? We had the cut-off of the social income of 90 000 people, we had 70 000 elderly who were left without the solidarity supplement for the elderly! That was a condemnation of poverty that the previous government has done to them, and that is what we are here to reverse. in fact, the only thing the CDS and PSD presented on the question of poverty was the Social Emergency Programme, which was basically a replacement of rights for favors, a promotion of care and dependence, the result of which led to an increase in inequality, and was the creation of a gigantic charity industry, through the transfer of EUR 1400 million to private institutions, deresponsibility of the State. in fact, by evaluating this Social Emergency Program, which had the effect of increasing poverty and inequality, we felt that for the CDS and the PSD did not care that poverty would end, so they turned it into a business. And that time, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, it has begun to end. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u96	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the speeches that have been made so far, it seems that Portugal has had no ransom.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u98	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u99	And it seems that there was no ransom means, exactly, that this is the first step so that we can have another ransom again. Those who listen to them are clearly left with the impression that you are the gentlemen. Members have not been in this country for the last four years. Therefore, it would be good for them to learn from the past, especially if we do not repeat the experience. On the issue of subsidies, Minister, we are indeed talking about a regime that does not apply to any of the Members. and Mrs Deputies who are here in this House, but it would also be good if we realized what the position of the Minister and the Socialist Party in this area is. And it is good that there is no bad memory on this subject: the CDS never approved it, as well as refused to sign a request that came at the time from a PSD member, and another, from a PS member, to maintain vital subsidies. And it was with our pressure and thanks to it that, at the time, this matter came out of the discussion in plenary. The question that arises after your intervention, Minister, is whether or not they are available to end these vital subsidies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u100	We're done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u101	As far as minimum pensions are concerned, I would like to say that they are not only those in the contribution field, but also social and rural pensions, which are non-contributory pensions and which are received by many people. And it does not stop being curious, Mr José Soeiro, who is here talking about aldrabice, because his Parliamentary Group has presented, for the 2015 State Budget, a proposal in which it promised an increase of 25 € / month and the truth is that they have just accepted increases of 3 cents a day — 3 cents a day! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Your silence in this matter fills this Hall of the Whole. So I have only one question to ask: after all, how are you going to vote on the initiative the CDS presented here today as regards minimum pensions, social and rural pensions? Mr President, I would like to note that it would also be interesting to know whether or not the Socialist Party is available to update these minimum, social and rural pensions, according to the value of inflation. About that, zero, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! Zero! We are still waiting for an answer on this matter. Finally, and if I may, Mr President, I would just like to leave two more notes. The CDS is not in favour of the time when the minimum income was uncontrolled and it became a disincentive to work. Are you going back at that time, Minister? We'll be here to monitor the accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u102	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u103	I'm done now, Mr. President. Regarding family allowance, our priority has always been the recovery of the fourth and fifth steps, to which the PS withdrew the family allowance. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members with regard to poverty, the latest INE report of December 2015 demonstrates what are some recovery results in this regard, which are still the result of the previous government. It would be good if we realized what your first results are. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u104	Mrs Rita Rato from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the CDS is always an interesting exercise. It's just that he came to talk about rescue, but actually, after hearing the PSD's non- argumentation, about rescue, Mr. Deputy, only if it's bailing out to the bank and bankers. What actually happened during four years of PSD / CDS government was the assault on workers, pensioners, rights and democracy. These four years meant an unacceptable social backwardness. The medal for the worsening of poverty is from the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, which has brought back poverty levels in the time of fascism, and that is a mark of your responsibility that will always bear. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, the worsening of poverty, the cuts in the value of unemployment benefit and the number of workers who had access to it in the family allowance, in the solidarity complement for the elderly and in the social income of insertion also happened, and in a very serious way, by the hand of the PSD and the CDS. It is always interesting to hear the CDS now saying that it fought for the replacement of the room and the fifth steps of the family allowance. Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, where did he go eight times that the PCP proposed the replacement of the fourth and fifth steps of the family allowance? The CDS has always voted against! The CDS' inconsistencies are then passed! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the worsening of inequalities and social injustices occurred in parallel with a phenomenon of concentration of wealth. This was indeed the political and ideological project of the PSD and the CDS: impoverish the majority of the population and enrich a small minority. And that is also why throughout these four years the Portuguese have fought for the defeat of that government, having translated it into vote, with the social and electoral isolation of the PSD Government and the CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Members, in this new correlation of forces of the Assembly of the Republic, we can discuss the recovery and defense of rights, exactly the opposite of what we have been discussing over four years of PSD / CDS government. over four years, we discussed the withdrawal and destruction of rights and now we discussed the recovery and defense of fundamental rights, enshrined in the Constitution, and which are an obligation of the State. Combating poverty is an obligation and a fight against democracy. The successive governments, in particular the former PSD Government and the CDS, are responsible for the attack on the democratic regime and its degradation and have made an unacceptable contribution in many homes in this country to once again the phenomenon of hunger, child poverty, poverty among the elderly, poverty among those who work and earn a wage that is not enough to live in conditions of dignity. from the PCP, our fight is for the actual increase in pensions. We value the freezing of pensions, Mr Minister, but we believe that it is insufficient and we effectively defend the actual increase in pensions and wages, because that is the first condition to combat poverty. There we will be for the fights of democracy, which are fights for recovery and defense of rights. The past is in the hands of the PSD and the CDS for the backwardness they wanted to impose. But they were defeated by the struggle of the Portuguese workers and people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u106	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who is listening to you? Members of the PSD and the CDS even have the idea that they have nothing to do with the previous government. It is because the previous government spent four years cutting wages, cuts in pensions and social support and, worse, three years saying that when the financial assistance period was over they would return what they had cut. The financial assistance ended, the government 'closed itself in glasses' and the cuts remained. In fact, the former government did not know any limits, had no respect for people, had no respect for pensioners, nor had any respect for the beneficiaries of the various social benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u108	The resume started last year. That's why you won the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u109	And the result could be no other: with the previous PSD/CDS government the risk of poverty in the elderly increased for the first time in many and many years after a long decline trend. It is recalled that the previous government cut nothing else, nothing less than € 113 per year in the reference value of the solidarity complement for the elderly, a cut that reached 230 000 elderly, who at the time benefited from this social benefit. Only between January 2013 and November 2015, the PSD/CDS Government withdrew this important support to about 70,000 elderly people, thus deepening the poverty rate among the elderly. It is now necessary to carry on this fight. We believe that the fight against poverty among the elderly, in addition to the defrosting of pensions, which is very important, will also have to go through the enlargement of the beneficiaries' world, the increase in the amount of social benefits subject to the conditions of recourse and the recovery of all pensions, one way, indeed, that the government is now starting. during two days organized by the PSD and CDS, which occurred in November last year, Mr. Paulo Portas stated: « They will increase pensions by €262, which are minimum pensions by 0, 3% ; we were 1 % or more, our increase was €37 per year, that of them is 10 % ». Mr Minister, I would like to give you an opportunity to comment so brilliantly on your reasoning. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u110	For an intervention and conclusion of the second round, the Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to address a few words, in particular, to the PSD and CDS benches, recalling the Memorandum of Troika. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u112	The Troika Memorandum provided for the update of the lowest value pensions, not to mention that these updates would be those of the social, rural and minimum pensions. But it could be the updating of all minimums and not only 35 % of the minimums. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We could have had an update of the minimum pensions of all pensioners who had been discounted for 40 years for social security and who saw their pension, of just over 300 €, frozen. But we can also look back at the Memory of the Troika, because it is sometimes good to remember, and to verify that there are two measures that were not there. They were not there, nor was there a cut in the ISC ( solidarity supplement for the elderly), nor was a cut in the ISC ( social income of insertion ). [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] These cuts were strategically inserted into the evaluations that were made later. Therefore, you have cut off the RSI and the CSI because you have decided so. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u113	But let's talk about pensioners who had updated pensions, Mr. Lobo d'Ávila. Was it 1 million pensioners that you updated the pensions? Oh, my God! We were able to reach 1 million, but it is not pensioners, it is a sum of updates between pensions and supplements, and in some cases the same person receives two pensions and one supplement. Of course, we can multiply the same person by three, and then we will say that they are pensioners, but it is not right. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.]] The honourable Member spoke in 1 million pensioners, but what you did was update pensions and update a value that corresponds to about 860 000 pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u114	It's merely residual!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u115	With this update up to six hundred and twenty...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u116	That's merely residual!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u117	No, there's a difference between pensioners and pensions! And it's important to be right in the speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The Socialist Party will update 2, 5 million pensions—there is a difference here! — and we are talking about pensions that you, during the four years you were in government, have never updated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u118	Bankruption!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u119	Let me tell you something else, Mr. Lobo d’Ávila : in 2015, we were no longer under the financial assistance programme. And this year we are no longer under the financial assistance programme. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u120	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u121	And today's initiative and you have entered the Bureau today is not even to update all pensions which, according to the law, were frozen. No, they continue to insist on updating only minimum pensions—in fact, the minimum minimum — social and rural. It is also important to clarify something else. The pensioners of social pensions will tend to, since this is a pension allocated by means of a condition of resources, beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly and, yes, they will now have an effective and real update. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reference to the 60 000 beneficiaries of the CIS that will be covered...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u122	800 000 makes a difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u123	Mr President, I only have a relationship with the 60 000 : it is the 60 000 that have lost the benefit while you were in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They will tend to be those who will be able to return to benefit. But it will also benefit from the 166 000 benefits currently being paid. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u124	That's two hundred and a thousand!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u125	But let's now talk about a very interesting subject, which is the Social Emergency Programme. I was curious if this programme would come to the debate — and it came. It was a Program announced in 2011, again announced and released in 2012 and composed of 53 measures. And, at the time, it was also promised by the PSD/CDS government to make a half-yearly assessment and balance sheet. We did not give for any, either half-yearly or annual, when the Social Emergency Programme ended. In fact, curiosity was to understand what was the Social Emergency Programme. And then there is no way to verify in the implementation of the Social Emergency Programme the measures that are accounted for and whose expenditure was paid for by the Social Emergency Programme. And, then, it is curious: there is one measure that we can say is within the framework of the Social Emergency Programme, which are the social canteens, which represent...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u126	850!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u127	No, no! I am very sorry but they represent EUR 40 million in 2015 — and EUR 40 million in a total implementation of EUR 236 million. So let's try to figure out what the difference is. Do you know the difference, Your Honor? They are cooperation agreements that are paid at current expense, which have always been paid,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u128	Before, there were 62 canteens and now it's 850!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u129	... that have always been paid, I repeat, for social security at current expense. And they're-- don't worry! — programmes which have been in place for years. Therefore, what actually happened was a fictitious accounting of programmes and of current social security budget expenditure, which simply moved to this heading. It is that the Social Emergency Programme, which has often been announced, is summarized in the social canteens. Social channels that have, in fact, been announced from the outset as a temporary response to an emergency situation. But we also verified when we arrived to the government that they would all end in 2014 and that they were extended, and that they would all end on 31 December 2015. And, in fact, we have extended this response for another six months, because we have not found an evaluation. We didn't find an evaluation! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important to assess, it is not enough to extend.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u130	Not everything is bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u131	I don't really know if it won't be bad. Now, with the permission of Mr President, the Minister would continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u132	Mr Minister, would you like to continue the intervention at this stage?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u133	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u134	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u135	Mr President, it is only to clarify, ultimately, why Mr Lobo d’Ávila did not understand, the position of the Government and the Socialist Party on vital subsidies. The honourable Member asked: "But, then, what do you think? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, what the government thinks is the same as the government thought that in 2005 it ended vital subsidies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it's all over! Finally, there may be in some regions of the country who have escaped these measures, but that is not the responsibility of the Government of the Republic. What happened was that all the exception measures that did not fit into the contributing logic and were addressed to the political agents, all of them, ended in 2005. And that was a decision by a Government of the Socialist Party. Mr President, if you insist on asking what the Socialist Party's position on this matter is, I will reply to you that it is simple: respect for the Constitutional Court and defence of the position we have always had on vital subsidies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u136	It's the only serious position you can have!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we will move on to the closing phase. As you know, the closure phase implies the use of the word by the Government and by the requesting party. on the part of the Government, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs was appointed to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Pedro Roque said that this had been a very little concrete debate. Mr President, it is concrete that the values of the solidarity complement for the elderly will be restored. It is concrete that the social income of insertion will increase. The increase in family allowance is concrete. The increase in national minimum wage is concrete. And it is concrete the impact on the lives of Portuguese people of increasing these social minimums. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] As is also concrete that will be updated in 2016, all pensions up to 628 €. As it is also concrete that, if the right to govern, only pensions would be updated up to €262. As it is also concrete that, if it continued to govern the right, the minimum pensions increases — of 274 €, 303 € and 369 € — would be zero! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] As it is also concrete that it was not a PSD government or the CDS that ended with the monthly life grants, it was a Socialist Party government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Just as it is concrete that poverty has declined during the PS governments and increased during the last government. There is nothing more concrete than the results we have been discussing here. This debate was not just a debate on social minimums, which were reduced by the former Government in a period of economic and social crisis in one of the most unequal countries in Europe, as Portugal is. And it was also not just a debate about how these social minimums were immediately recovered by this government as soon as they started their duties. This was, in fact, a debate on symbolic minimums, a debate on the status we choose to assign to all citizens of our community, in particular to the most vulnerable, economic and social. The economic crisis of recent years has been exploited by the Government of the right coalition: firstly, to reduce the incomes of those who lived at the threshold of our standards of dignity; secondly, to throw the stigma on a set of social benefits and citizens who benefited from them; and finally, to encourage, not always subtle, social envy, to the detriment of the most fragile. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For every euro that the previous government has saved by removing citizens from the solidarity supplement for the elderly or social income of inclusion did not just throw these people into poverty. by doing so - this government has contributed to degrading our standards of minimum well-being and to corrode the ties that make us a cohesive political community. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this was, and will continue to be, also a debate on models of society and social protection. It is not, contrary to what one might think, a debate on the budgetary costs of each model. The dichotomy between a supposedly expensive and expensive model, defended on the left, and a supposedly cheap and sustainable model, defended on the right, is not only simplistic, is false! [[P.S.'s applause.]] For example, when a government decides to spend three times more on the daily meals of a family, which are served by a social institution, than it would spend if it gave the same family a social benefit for all its expenses over a month, this government is not saving money for taxpayers, it is not contributing to this family's learning how to manage their budget, it is not ensuring that their rights are guaranteed, it is not even being able to monitor whether money is well used. The real choice you have been here, and will continue to be in discussion, is between a model financed and guaranteed by the State, through social support awarded in accordance with universal and transparent criteria, and a model financed by the State, but of which it is irresponsible to ensure that the social rights of the most vulnerable citizens are effectively guaranteed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The choice is between a model based on monetary benefits, protects dignity and encourages the autonomy of citizens under conditions of economic and social fragility and a model that, by assigning goods in genders, relatively discretionary, reproduces the dependence of the poorest in relation to institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since the social state has consolidated itself as a civilizational advance in the most prosperous societies that the liberal right has not been tired of criticizing. The social state—says to us decades ago—is expensive and drowsy, promotes the dependence and care for the dignity of those who want to protect, generates a bureaucratic monster that no one can scrutinize. It is ironically true that this criticism applies above all to the social status model that today the right defends in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u139	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u140	The recovery of social minimums that we are debating today is part of the strategy to recover the incomes of citizens and families most affected by the economic and social crisis and then in the peak of this, by the previous government. But to recover social minimums is not just to recover income, protecting the social benefits of the most vulnerable citizens. It is also to guarantee symbolic minimums, to strengthen the centrality of the idea of equality in access to fundamental social rights, to extend the concept of citizenship to the level of living conditions, to affirm that it is the obligation of a government to do everything to prevent the weaker members of the community from suffering the effects of the crisis and that in no case should a government take advantage of this crisis to reduce these minimum civilizations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u141	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u142	I'll finish. Combating poverty and inequality is neither a rhetorical concern nor a side effect of economic growth. People know that this fight is at the heart of the triple plan that guides the action of this government: more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u143	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the conclusion of this debate, we can draw three very clear conclusions. First: the dimension of real social disaster that too many people and families face today, as they have faced in the past four years, is the dimension of the absolute failure of the social policies of the previous government, PSD and CDS. Secondly, the inability of the PSD and the CDS to recognise that they have failed in the last four years in the containment of the increase in poverty, the increase in inequality and the protection of the poorest and most vulnerable is one of the reasons why the vote of more than 60% of the Portuguese against the former Government was translated into the affirmation of an alternative government, with an alternative programme for the country. Third: because we have today a government and a majority of parties in the House who refuse to accept the inevitability of the impoverishment of our country, the current PS government has as one of the central and priority axes of its Programme the reduction of poverty and inequality, the programme that has already allowed, the fulfilment of a fundamental part of the commitments made by the PS, the strengthening of the solidarity complement for the elderly, the family allowance and social income of insertion, the end of the cuts in wages and pensions, the increase in pensions up to €628 and the increase in the national minimum wage. In just four years, the previous government destroyed the effort of more than a decade in the successful reduction of poverty and inequality in Portugal. And if the economic and financial crisis that the country has been facing since 2008 has put economic and social difficulties, which the PS has always recognized, the choice/choice of the previous government, PSD / CDS, to reduce social policies to social canteens and the increase in minimum pensions at the cost of cutting off in solidarity complement for the elderly explains the essential of increasing poverty and inequality in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, reducing the amounts and access to RSI when the country was facing the biggest crisis in the last 80 years and unemployment reached almost 18% had a substantial impact on the increase in poverty and inequality. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, cutting into the solidarity complement for the elderly, who proved to be the most effective means of combating poverty in the elderly, to increase rural and minimum pensions up to 15 years of discount, only one result: increasing poverty and poverty intensity in the elderly. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, cutting three times more than was expected in the Memorandum of Understanding in social policies, making social canteens a great response to the difficulties of people and families facing the harsh reality of unemployment, which would not stop increasing, and employment, which would not cease to diminish, could only lead to the increase of poverty of all, in general, and of those who were already poor, in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if, in view of the reality of increasing poverty and inequality, the PSD and the CDS today have the courage to say in this debate that they have done everything well, that they have protected the poorest and that they are even more effective in the results of social policies in combating poverty, they can better understand why they are no longer government. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, you are no longer government because Portuguese and Portuguese people no longer accept impoverishment. They are no longer government because the Portuguese and the Portuguese do not let themselves be deceived! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Do not be fooled by the demagogy of the increase in minimum pensions at the expense of the solidarity supplement for the elderly. Mr. Filipe d’Ávila, there is no pensioner who only lives from minimum pensions up to €262 who is not entitled to the solidarity supplement for the elderly, who has a potential for an increase in income of €90 and €100 for these people. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] And they are no longer government because the Portuguese and Portuguese do not accept returning to the time of the rows for the soup of the poor, as reminded us by the social canteens. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] And finally, they are no longer government because, if there were any doubts, what has happened to Portugal and the Portuguese over the past four and a half years has proved that no country is developing itself impoverishing and that the theory that was, and is, on the basis of the PSD and CDS Programme — and that Mr Pedro Roque today recalled — that, first, it is necessary to create wealth to then distribute has both simplistic and wrong and the consequences of which are catastrophic. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u145	Attention to your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that this debate has been another opportunity to make a difference between what would be the PSD and CDS Government Programme and what is the Government Programme and the majority of the parties who support it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u147	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u148	I will finish, Mr. President. Where the PSD and CDS have given up the poorest and have used the country's difficulties to defend the inevitability of impoverishment and the blind cuts, far above that provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding, the PS Government wants to mobilize the country for a program that seeks the balance between fulfilling our commitments and the country we do not want to give up. And for the PS, the country we do not want to give up has the poorest, the most vulnerable and those who have suffered the consequences of the crisis and the wrong policies of the previous government as a priority. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u149	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with our agenda, we will provide some information to the House on legislative initiatives, however, admitted to the Bureau, as well as on the results of elections to external bodies that took place last week. I will therefore give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 105 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — It deepens the legal regime of the special action for the recognition of the existence of a contract of employment established by Law No 63 / 2013 of 27 August and extends the procedural mechanisms for combating « false green receipts » and all undeclared forms of work, including false stages and false volunteering ( BE ), which goes down to 10. the Commission and draft resolution No 97 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defend the construction of the new public central hospital in Évora ( PCP ). Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I will turn to the results of the elections that took place at the plenary session on Friday. For the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor, the following result was found: 218 Members were voted on, two lists were presented, with list A being obtained 96 votes, list B 108 votes, with 6 white votes and 8 zeros. in these terms, the following candidates are considered elected: Manuel de Magalhães e Silva ; Alfredo José Leal Castanheira Neves ; José António de Melo Pinto Ribeiro ; António José Barradas Leitão ; and João Luís Madeira Lopes. For the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products ( CNPMA ), the result was that 218 Members were voted and 110 votes 'yes' were recorded, 92 white votes and 6 null votes. in these terms, the only candidate, Carla Maria de Pinho Rodrigues ( PSD ) is considered elected. For the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the result was that 218 Members were voted and 164 votes 'yes', 48 whites and 6 nulls were recorded. in these terms, the following candidates are considered elected: António Costa Rodrigues ( PSD ) and Carlos Filipe de Andrade Neto Brandão ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u151	Mrs. Members, we will generally consider the projects of lein.o 17 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents deliberate cultivation and release in the environment of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs) ( The Greens ), 69 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It prohibits the cultivation, import and marketing of genetically modified organisms ( BE), 102 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — prohibits the production and commercial cultivation of genetically modified organisms ( repeal of Decree-Law No 72 / 2003 of 10 April and Decree-Law No 160 / 2005 of 21 September ) ( PAN) and 100 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation or cultivation of genetically modified agricultural varieties ( GMOs ) ( CFPs ). To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have taken the initiative to schedule for today a bill that prevents deliberate cultivation and release in the environment of GMO. Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is scientific controversy about the consequences of the cultivation of transgenics. This scientific controversy means that there is a principle that must guard against the measures we have taken, which is precisely the principle of caution, which tells us to care and gives me the idea that such care has not been observed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the cultivation of transgenics is done in an open field, it is not done in a laboratory and, being done in an open field, it means that there is an easy contamination of traditional and biological cultures, which must deserve our concern and we consider that the rules that are laid down to prevent such contamination are not at least sufficient. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Member States, labelling is misleading to consumers, insofar as, if a particular product contains a quantity of less than 0, 9 % of transgenics, information is provided to the consumer. Well, it happens, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the position of consumers at European Union level is very clear: more than 90 % want to have accurate information and more than 70 % say that they refuse even to consume transgenic food. On the other hand, this also does not seem to please farmers so much. It is clear that in Portugal in recent years there has already been a stagnation of transgenic maize cultivation in Portugal, which in its entirety represents no more than 6 % or 7 % of all maize produced in our country, which means that there are not so many farmers interested in it. This is practically nothing compared to Portugal's total maize production. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the other hand, there is a matter which is not of sole importance and which is linked to the total dependence of multinationals in the agri-food sector on farmers and consumers in relation to GMOs. Of course it's the negotiation of the century! And this must be stopped because they want to market the seed and herbicide to which that plant is resistant. They want to dominate the agricultural market and the food market, which is extremely worrying. I think we all agree on this. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you are at your disposal, and of course for discussion, this bill presented by The Greens. [[PCP and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u153	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question of genetically modified organisms was first brought to the Assembly of the Republic by the Block of the Left in the form of a bill in the year 2000. We therefore defended the prohibition of the cultivation and marketing of GMOs for human and animal feed already under the protection of the precautionary principle, when in the previous year in 1999 the first major scientific research article was published in the international debate which reflected on the effects of transgenic potato intake on the digestive system of laboratory rats. Since then, in the turn of the century, a long path has been taken in terms of research and in terms of public clarification on the subject we are discussing. Several articles were published in the most prestigious scientific journals in the world, confirming the risks present in the production of genetically modified organisms for human consumption and the introduction of these organisms into the food chain. And several decisions were taken under the precautionary principle by political authorities from several countries in the world and this Assembly of the Republic, also on a proposal from the Left Block in 2010, unanimously approved the rejection of the marketing of two varieties of transgenic rice. The same European policy, which for many years has been invoked as a reason for nothing to do — if it was not banned in Europe, we could not ban it in Portugal — has been changed. Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 412 of 11 March allows a State to prevent the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in its territory. That is what 15 European countries have done. It was a firm attitude to protect the environment and food, to impose the precautionary principle on agriculture and to protect people's health. Portugal, against the direction of the European trend, maintains 8500 hectares of maize area, MON 810, the last of the varieties cultivated in Europe. As Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has said, transgenic maize cultivation is stagnant, there is a tendency to give up on the cultivation of transgenics. In Portugal, it occupies only 6 % of the maize farming area. It is now in the hands of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic, of the parties which over the years have opposed transformations and changes in this field change Portuguese legislation on this matter. We must withdraw our country from this tiny role of European countries where the multinational giant Monsanto continues to make the rule. with us is only Spain, Romania, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. It is therefore a matter of ensuring the future of people in terms of food security and respect for biodiversity. The variety of Monsanto maize that is grown in Portugal secretes a pesticides — other varieties of transgenic culture are highly pesticide-resistant — and this affects the environmental sustainability and biodiversity of crop areas. There is a risk of contamination. The right not to cultivate is subject to the right to cultivate and there are already cases of farmers persecuted for having patented plants on their land when they have not sown them and were subjected to cross-pollination. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about today is Portugal to step up the international trend and refuse the cultivation and marketing of products with genetically modified organisms in view of what is the best interest in protecting the environment and food security against the lobbyies of multinational biotechnology. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u155	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Incredibly, or not, the vast majority of Portuguese people do not know what GMOs — genetically modified organisms — nor do they so little risk to their consumption, ignoring the impacts that their cultivation has on agriculture, the economy, the environment, on the health of all of us. It is essential to defend sustainable agriculture, oriented towards the protection of biodiversity and the right of peoples to sovereignty over their common genetic and food heritage. The environmental impacts of the transgenics currently produced in our country are several and with a complex technical framework. Toxins produced interfere hostilely in the natural cycles of various insects and organisms supporting the development of agriculture and life. The American Academy of Environmental Medicine analyzed available science and concluded that health risks are serious and include infertility, immune deregulation, accelerated aging, deregulation of genes associated with cholesterol synthesis and still liver, renal and gastrointestinal changes. As has been happening throughout Europe, it is time to ban the cultivation of GMOs in Portugal. Genetic engineering companies aim to monopolize and uniformize food production by patenting an inalienable common good, seeds, and making us Cuban citizens through our dishes. Until it is unequivocally proven by the scientific community that these organisms do not have negative impacts on the environment, health, agriculture, the economy and sustainable development, the NAP defends its prohibition. In fact, it seems very sensible to us that, when people, animals and the potential environmental degradation are concerned, the principle of caution and preservation of life prevails. by prohibiting the commercial cultivation of GMOs, the Assembly of the Republic will be prudently applying this principle. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u157	To present the PCP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill presented by the CFP today proposes the regulation of the cultivation of genetically modified agricultural varieties to ensure that conventional agriculture and organic agriculture do not become mere exceptions to the rule. If it is possible to say that the current agricultural varieties were non-existent thousands of years ago and that the first steps of what we call today of biotechnology began to be given at the time when Gordon Childe designated this moment of Neolytic Revolution, we cannot compare this process to the production of GMOs — patented, private, on a scale — today. There are legitimate issues that concern the populations about the risks associated with the production and consumption of genetically modified organisms: the risks to biodiversity that the proliferation of transgenic crops presents, since they have a competitive advantage over other unmodified species; the risks that the release of these genetically modified organisms can have in the environment in terms of consequences at the level of ecosystems, in particular by compromising conventional and biological agricultural crops. It is impossible to guarantee scientifically the safety of transgenic products in human and animal nutrition and the risk of the presence of traces of GMOs in food production can become technically inevitable and virtually impossible to obtain final products totally free of genetically modified agricultural varieties. The CFP considers that our agriculture has only to win with the defence and promotion of the quality of a national, biological, regional and traditional product, rather than the standardization of production and the bet on mass production and intensively. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does our country really need GMO production? due to its geomorphology, its pedological characteristics and its land structure and agricultural production it is possible to say that there are no advantages to opt for transgenic cultivation. Portugal doesn't need GMOs!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u161	It is also important to value the position of the various municipalities that have already declared themselves free of genetically modified organisms. It will be more important for the State to be able to monitor the productive capacity of Portuguese farmers in general and to provide all Portuguese with a healthy and quality agri-food production. in this regard, Mrs. Members, it would have been so important that the draft resolution brought here by the CFP on support for family farming measures had been approved. Family agriculture, as opposed to the models of intensive and scale agrobusiness of multinationals, has much more respectable characteristics of diversity and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP, affirming the potential positive impacts of scientific and technological development in the field of biotechnology, must not fail to struggle by a strict application of the precautionary principle, particularly in the agriculture sector, for which there is increasing pressure for the introduction of genetically modified organisms. Thus, the exception we present for its possible cultivation requires that this be done in a strictly controlled environment and only for scientific research purposes, for medical or therapeutic purposes or for purposes of relevant public interest, by the authorization of the Government. We also believe that research in biotechnology, so that it can actually become a basis for progress, must have a public component and be globally known and accompanied by public authorities. Only in this way can it be put at the service of the population, of all of us, preventing its subordination to private interests, especially of the sedentary multinationals of another source of profit. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u164	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Genetically modified organisms, also known as transgenics, pose questions that go well beyond the agricultural issue. It is in this broad context that the bills under discussion are found. The social consequences and environmental impacts cannot and should not be excluded. Consumers, as well as very well point out the bills in question, do not have confidence in this type of product. The ecological balance of ecosystems and consumer protection are essential issues that the Socialist Party safeguards and, therefore, the precautionary principle has guided our political options. For the sake of truth, whether from the European universe or from the national universe, we only have the authorized cultivation of a single genetically modified organism — maize. But it is important to discuss and debate at European level the possibility of new genetically modified organisms being inserted into the continent. This matter has been handled prudently by the governments of the Socialist Party, unlike the way it was handled by the last PSD/CDS government. Yes, sir. Members, the previous Government should not fail to be criticised for failing to follow the recommendation of the Socialist Party, adopted in the Assembly of the Republic and published in the Journal of the Republic of 1 April 2015, which pointed out precisely in the direction of the study and evaluation of the issue so that a duly substantiated decision can be taken. This is a matter that becomes of the greatest importance to study, including the issue of consumer protection. It is therefore necessary to assess more than 10 years of use of genetically modified organisms in Portugal. And the path of active diagnosis is what the Socialist Party defends, mapping crops, defining areas of greater sensitivity and potential risk and promoting the availability and total information to consumers. It is also important to mention that the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, presented in the previous legislation, recommended to the Government guidelines relating to the transposition process of Directive 2001/18 / EC, the European Parliament and the Council of 12 March, with the possibility of Member States limiting or prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in their territory. Negotiating this directive in the European Parliament would have been important, but the previous government did nothing. It was a missed opportunity, but other countries were able to take advantage of, even countries of strong agricultural tradition. in this regard, as in other matters, the defence of national interest was not the priority of the previous government. They can continue to count on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to follow this matter with the attention and prudence it deserves us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u166	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with a previous note addressing Mr Hugo Costa to tell him that it seems to me that he has not read or studied the whole process completely, i.e. how it is cultivated or can be grown the genetically modified maize MON 810, as well as who introduced this possibility in Portugal. I will remind you, Mr President, that it was a government led by an absolute majority of the Socialist Party and was Minister of Agriculture Jaime Silva. at that time, the Socialist Party unanimously voted in favour of the possibility of the cultivation of transgenics in Portugal, fulfilling the principle of caution and introducing greater precautions than those of Community rules, i.e. by slightly extending Community rules with regard to border lines and coexistence with traditional cultivation and biological cultivation. Therefore, Mr Hugo Costa, if you have anything to criticize in the legislation, do a self-criticism and see why it has not been done differently. Then the honourable Member said that it was necessary to evaluate and have good practice. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they exist, through official mechanisms and bodies. See the Manual of Good Practices of Coexistence for Corn Culture. We are talking exclusively about a culture that has been authorised for more than a dozen years in Europe and that is used in Portugal and Spain because, especially for these two countries, it is the way of producing maize without using pesticides, without using agrochemicals, much more aggressive for agriculture, to combat one of the pests of maize that exists only in these two regions, which is the brooch of maize. I speak of a caterpillar that consumes not only the spruce as the plant itself and, in order not to be consumed, much more polluting agrochemicals must be used. These, yes, polluters, these, yes, much more expensive and those, yes, prevent production as profitable as that of transgenic maize. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the idea behind the introduction of these diplomas: a purely ideological issue, which does not respect the principle of freedom of cultivation as long as it complies with the rules, maintaining a situation which I cannot but qualify politically hypocritically. It is because any one of these projects allows and claims it is possible to continue to make policies and crops of this type of plant as long as they are for scientific purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u168	So who didn't study well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u169	Question : is used for scientific purposes, and then what is the result? This is one of the most experienced, most used materials...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u170	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u171	...and, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I now question whether, by any chance, they are also against the use of GMOs in the case of insulin, since all it is produced through genetically modified organisms. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u172	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by congratulating the proposers of the four initiatives here today under discussion for the opportunity to discuss again the subject of genetically modified organisms in this Parliament. I would also like to tell Mr Hugo Costa that in the previous Parliament there was a majority here and that for this diploma to have been approved and published in the Journal of the Republic it was because the parties of the majority took into account these concerns. So let us not forget that, as the PS has now spoken — and let us see what will be the meaning of the vote on these proposals — the PSD has also always defended the precautionary principle here and continuously evaluated the evolution of GMO culture over time. in this sense, we took into account all scientific studies, such as those of the 400 groups of European researchers who, in 2010 and after 25 years of studies, concluded that genetically modified plant varieties do not constitute an increased risk for human or animal health or the environment. We also did not fail to take into account the 10 years of application of the rules of coexistence carried out in Portugal, with the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, and which did not verify cases of contamination in neighbouring fields with levels that required legal care or indications. in the same way, we have not ignored the conclusions of the European Food Safety Authority which, in three different opinions, reaffirms total confidence in GMO cultivation, claiming that this crop is as safe as conventional ones. Mrs. Members, the ban on genetically modified food culture in Portugal would have drastic consequences for both farmers and consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u174	Drastic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u175	The GMOs are now an essential tool for the competitiveness of our farmers vis-à-vis the global market. Cost reductions in the corn line are now clear, for example, in animal feed and in the reduction of pesticides, which make the environment and people much worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u176	He seems to talk about it all the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u177	Likewise, the prohibition on genetically modified food would reduce the supply of food which is now sold at reduced prices and which are available to Portuguese consumers, for example for those who use soybeans as a food option, or for products intended for people with chronic or food intolerant diseases. Mrs. Members, regardless of what we may have in relation to these products, to ban their use, their evolution, their innovation is to severely condition economic development in agriculture, whose most noble function is to feed a world population of 7 billion people... [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] ... and that it will have to continue to feed the growth of this population, which will be estimated at 9 billion in 2050, with scarce resources such as water, as chemical factors and as nutrients. Mrs. Members, the PSD believes that this cause, this issue, this debate, deserves a much broader reflection than merely fulfilling an ideological agenda of some parties. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u178	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not accept the argument that the fight against hunger for GMO proliferation and I think that Mr Nuno Serra should not accept either, because this is a deep hypocrisy. Mr President, do you remember the Greens saying here in the Assembly of the Republic last year that, for example, one third of the world's food waste gave to feed the whole population who is hungry in the world? And you know that economic and financial hypocrisy does not kill hunger in the world, do you not, Mr. Commissioner? Do not come with this absolutely hypocritical argument! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, please note that when a particular product has less than 0, 9 % of transgenic is not reported to the consumer. Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u180	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u181	Have you ever decided to answer this question?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u182	You have to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u183	Please note: in relation to products of animal origin, no information is provided to the consumer about whether the animals have been fed with transgenic feed. Why? It's not right, it's not true, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Especially when consumers have the idea of transgenic consumption. Even in the United States of America, where consumer acceptance was great at an early stage, they are now clearly retreating. It is the studies and conclusions of the surveys that have been made that have clearly revealed this trend. Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u184	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u185	I will finish, Mr. President. If GMOs are such a transparent thing, so translucent, so beneficial to health and the environment, why does trust start to shrink? Because you give in to the interests of multinationals and people don't want to. [[Applause from The Greens, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u186	Now, yes, we conclude the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 17 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( The Greens ), 69 / XIII ( 1. ( BE ), 102 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PAN) and 100 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ). Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I will once again give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to make another announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has entered into the Bureau draft law No 106 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the mechanisms for presumption of employment contract, ensuring a more effective fight against precariousness and the concealment of subordinate working relationships, amending Article 12. the Labour Code ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u188	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will now enter point 4 of our agenda, with the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 9 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Replaces pension supplements in enterprises in the state business sector ( CFP ) and 104 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The suspension of the payment of pension supplements to the employees of the undertakings in the public sector and the conditions for the allocation of these supplements in the field of collective bargaining ( BE) together with draft resolution No 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of pension supplements to employees of enterprises in the public sector ( PS ). To present the PCP bill, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u189	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The CFP, by promoting the scheduling of this debate and by proposing this bill, presents a serious and concrete contribution to the replacement of the reform supplements to workers and retired to whom it was, shamefully, taken from what was their right,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u190	... because it was a shame what the previous government and the previous majority, PSD / CDS-PP, did to these workers. The company asked them to retire earlier, committed themselves to maintaining the value of the pension so that they would not be penalized by the early exit and that it was the option of the company, the workers accepted what the company asked them to do and what they had in recent years was the cut in their reform, to treason, decided unilaterally by the right in power, causing dramatic situations in their lives. [[PCP and PS applause.]] All in the name of the negotiations! All in the name of the negotiations and the provision of public services to the interests of the large economic groups, with the policy of exploitation and impoverishment which they imposed on the country. It should be stressed here that the CFP does not only recommend that the reform supplements be restored. What we propose is that the end of this theft be determined in particular by the law of the Assembly of the Republic. It was the House which ruled, by law, the non-payment of reform supplements and now what is needed is that the Assembly assumes its responsibilities and fulfils its role! This is where injustice has been committed, this is where justice has to be restored! For this reason, we have tabled this proposal for the replacement of pension supplements in the business sector to employees in the active and former retired, retired and other pensioners and for this year of 2016 and for the future. Above all, the workers of the Carris transport companies are concerned and, more particularly, the Lisbon Metropolitan. From here we want to express our greeting to these workers for the tireless struggle they have made in defense of their rights,... [[PCP and BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... by the example of dignity, firmness, unity of class, strength and vitality that they gave at all times: in the days of struggle against the company, in front of the Ministry, in front of the Assembly, next to the stations. We therefore welcome this generation of workers, men and women builders from Portugal in April, who once again demonstrated that it is always worth fighting because, as we have been saying, it was the struggle of the workers who brought us here. [[PCP and BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u191	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u192	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First of all, we must not fail to welcome all the pensioners and workers in the transport sector who are in the galleries of the Assembly, for whom the decision on this issue can be the first day of a more dignified life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u194	I also wanted to take this opportunity to explain to Mr. Lobo d’Ávila, who recently shed crocodile tears on pensioners, why did his government decide to cut the pension supplements for workers and pensioners who are present in the galleries from 2014. of our part, this bill that we present aims to cancel the suspension of payments of pension supplements in the business sector of the state because it is a question of social urgency. This House, even knowing that the approval of this proposal does not automatically unlock the payment of pension supplements as this will be the subject of the next State budget, will give an important sign of respect for the commitments that the State, erroneously by the hand of the former Government, PSD / CDS, deliberately chose not to honour. in the four years of PSD / CDS government, the right always invoked the obligation to respect the impositions of international financial institutions, to impose the most devastating impoverishment operation in the country, alarming its ability to go beyond the troika in the imposition of sacrifices, in the attack on wages and pensions and in the worsening of inequalities. But in spite of that, what we remember, was that the right government, despite this image, remained in many areas beyond what was required by the troika: in the public deficit, failing the goals it proposed; in the impoverishment of the population, since the IMF has always demanded more cuts in wages and pensions, subsidies and supplements; in the increase of precariousness, because the IMF and the European Commission, Durão Barroso, have always defended more liberalization of redundancies; in the assault on taxpayers, in order to, together with bottom-up financing solutions, save the entire private national financial system; in the destruction of public services and, concomitantly, in privatization, by setting up the transfer of millionaire income from public coffers to private. In all these matters the previous government has always used the same argument: respect for commitments! But commitments with people, that, indeed, never existed. It is here that this initiative of the Left Block, i.e. to re-establish respect for the contracts signed with the people, to restore income to those who have worked their entire lives to build the public services we have, in particular transport. It is not surprising that this plenary meets a few days after the declaration of unconstitutionality concerning the suspension of the vital pensions of Members and former Members of Parliament, former governors, autarcas and others.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u195	It was unquestionable; now it is no longer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u196	We, Block Left, have a lot of difficulty in understanding how it is the Constitutional Court did not find unconstitutionalities in the suspension of the cuts of the supplements or pensions, even of the lowest. But what we cannot even accept is the fact that several PS and PSD Members have subscribed to the appeal to the Constitutional Court for vital pensions, which can be refused, to be reassigned, at the same time as it has been known by the right-wing Members to be a great inconvenience to the reconstruction of social democracy that is under way by this new majority. on this day, the Assembly of the Republic, by restoring the dignity of the State itself in its relationship with the citizens, also reaffirms, by virtue of the draft Block law, the principle that any amendment to the pension supplement scheme will only be admissible by resorting to the democracy of negotiation rather than by « austerity » decision. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u197	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u198	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members: Today we are dealing with the replacement of incomes, particularly pension supplements to workers of the state business sector, and in this particular case I report to what happened in the years 2014 and 2015, when it was widely defended by the Socialist Party, in this plenary, its opposition to this measure. The majority of right PSD / CDS and its government, to which the Portuguese gave due treatment, referring them to opposition following the October 2015 legislative elections, in their fury of cuts on all the income of workers also left their brand here, particularly in the State Budgets of 2014 and 2015. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, with regard to the restriction on the allocation of pension supplements for employees of enterprises in the public sector, particularly as regards Article 175. that of the State Budget Act 2014, always defended that such restriction was against the principles of protection, trust, equality and proportionality, principles that are essential in a state of democratic law. This understanding was repeatedly expressed and gave rise, even to a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of this restriction by the Constitutional Court, which did not in fact follow this understanding, but where it was known that this matter opened up in this court. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party had drawn up its electoral programme and the XXI Constitutional Government programme provides for the replacement of pension supplements in companies in the state business sector. Thus, and confirming what is a mark of this government and of the current majority that supports it, which, we agree, greatly bothers the banks of the PSD and the CDS, because they show a remarkable difficulty in living up to the practice of this government and the majority that supports it — fulfilling what they have promised — and their practice in the recent past, in which they have done exactly the opposite of what they promised, we will once again meet our commitments. in the fulfilment of the Constitutional Agenda XXI, Government led by the Socialist Party, we believe that the appropriate time to correct this injustice of the previous PSD/CDS Government will be to indicate the replacement of the payment of pension supplements to companies in the state business sector within the proposed budget law. Draft resolution No 93 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ), signed by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, recommends to the Government the replacement of pension supplements in the state business enterprises, and thus giving this understanding, to make clear in this House, before the Portuguese, in front of the country and in particular before pensioners, that there is a majority and a government genuinely committed to returning confidence to citizens and reversing unfair, constitutionally doubtful and ethically reprobable measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u199	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of the amendments to the reform of the former workers of the state business sector, it is good to remember, had its origin in the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u201	In its original version it reads in point 1.16 : « Reduce costs in the State business sector ( EEA ), with the aim of saving at least EUR 515 million (... ). Point ( ii ) is clear : « Restricting systems of remuneration and ancillary benefits (... ) ». This is what's in the Memorandum!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u202	But that's not pension supplement!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u203	The suspension of the payment of reform supplements enshrined in the 2014 Budget was for companies that had shown negative net results in the last three years, and of course, we are talking about public companies with losses, i.e. companies that live at the expense of State budgets and our taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u204	It is also confirmed, in view of this criterion of injury, that this is a transitional measure; that is, as soon as the companies cease to have damage the supplements could be paid again. It was also enshrined that the measure was not intended for all pensions, leaving all those that were below 600 € excluded. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot ignore that this measure was assessed by the Constitutional Court and, unlike others equally appreciated in the famous 2014 judgment, was considered constitutional. [[Mal!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u205	There was no breach of the principle of trust, the Constitutional Court said. More: the issue of violation of collective bargaining was also analyzed and it was also considered that there was no violation. [[Mal!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u206	I recall that these measures were necessary to ensure the rescue programme to which the country was subjected due to the irresponsibility of the Socialist Party, which now pretends that nothing has to do with the matter, but these measures have always had a transitional character. [[PS Protests, PCP and BE Mariana Mortagua MP.]] Going directly to the content of the initiatives under consideration, it seems, the PS wants to recommend to the Government that it legislate, but the PCP and the Block want to resolve already in the Assembly of the Republic. It is appropriate to clarify, after all: between these parties, which of the two solutions is to be followed?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u207	The result is the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u208	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for us, the measure has always been transient,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u209	It was, it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u210	... resulted from the first version of the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the PS, saved the lowest pensions. We always defend that this measure was to reverse, but gradually, in order to ensure that the State was in a position to bear these charges. Now, these initiatives and the way they are proposed seem to me to be another arm of iron among the parties that support the government,... [[It's true!]] [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u211	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u212	... between the PCP, the Block and the PS, in order to prove who else is in charge of this government, whether it is the CGTP and the PCP, or whether it is the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u213	So it's us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u214	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see what this is going to do! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u215	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u216	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The debate we have here today could be good news for the country. I could know if the extreme left, when presenting these bills of law, said here: "All right, we don't agree. But what is certain is that, after four years, when we left the Memorandum of Understanding because a previous government led the country to bankruptcy, right now, just after a procedure already initiated by the previous Government which guarantees or intends to guarantee, and for this purpose worked, the good health of companies in the state business sector, after that work that the previous Government, then we will realize how we can cancel the suspension." This is because what the previous government had to do was ensure that everyone abdicated from some part of what they had...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u217	And the bankers gave up on what?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u218	...so they wouldn't all be without anything! And it's bad, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that this has happened, but that has only happened, because nothing was the situation in which the socialist government gave us the country. In fact, this is not even debatable! The Socialist Government says: "We have no more capacity, we mismanage the country. Come the troika, there's no money! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by Mr. BE Heitor Sousa.]] So it would eventually be a good sign. It's not! It is not because, as we can see, even because of the content of the debate, even if we did not read the bills, the extreme left question of catching up again on this thing, that austerity is a choice. Nor with Greece do you. Ladies and gentlemen have learned! [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u219	Nor with Greece do you. Ladies and gentlemen have learned, that they have used as long as they have done so! Austerity is not a matter of choice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u220	I'm glad it was a choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u221	...is a matter of necessity when there is no way to hold those who have led us to bankruptcy. There isn't, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a Portuguese who doesn't know...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u222	Ask them! They're there in the galleries!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u223	...that a good health company is better than you can give to the workers of that company! And that a state with good health accounts is the only thing that guarantees the good health of the country where they live. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] But it would be, ladies and gentlemen. Members, time for, like, indeed, the CFP has not stopped giving its 'bicada', we have some hope,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u224	The PCP is not like you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u225	... because the Socialist Party makes a recommendation to the Government. As the honourable Member of the Portuguese Communist Party said here, it was not a determination, it was a recommendation! We have listened carefully, Mr! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] It could be thought that it was a logic of responsibility or that the PS had adopted a prudent attitude to realize what can now be done with the recovery work that the previous government has done. Or even the least, because I realized that this thing of promising everything to everyone is not sustainable, at least indefinitely. But no! What the Socialist Party here is saying, in fact, in the form of a recommendation, has no mystery, from the point of view of the bench that will win this war, as it was said here, because the kidnapping agreements that have been established...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u226	Kidnapping of what?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u227	... between the PS and the extreme-left parties make it clear that there is no freedom and that the Socialist Party is hostage to what it wrote. So let's put it back, it doesn't matter how. Let's get some rest, get some rest, get some rest!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u228	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u229	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end by asking two questions, which I would like you to keep for reflection: first, how is it that the Socialist Party, the same that it gives to international creditors the country saying that it has no money to govern it, comes to speak of principles of trust and protection to the Portuguese, who had to make sacrifices to ensure that the country was out of bankruptcy? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u230	Mrs. Deputy, you've spent a lot of your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u231	I conclude, Mr President, by saying: "Yes, there are parties in this House of the Republic that are obsessed with austerity! », are those on the left who are in an unbridled race to...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u232	To end it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u233	... to understand which one is the first to be able to bring it back. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u234	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u235	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the schedule of the CFP for today, because I believe it is extremely timely and important, and, secondly, pensioners from companies in the state business sector, who today came to see this debate, in a just claim of what was required of it, in the face of the profound injustice that they were victims of decisions made by the previous Government. Mr. PSD said here that these cuts of pension supplements, such as other barbarities, had to be made, they did not want to but had to do them. There were no choices, there were things that really had to be done! Because I think that the honourable Member is wrong and that they were indeed choices, because you chose between giving money to banks or giving money to the country's social, economic and environmental development.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u236	Exactly! [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u237	You have preeminented the rights of the people in favour of the financial system. For example, look at another choice here: when you decided that it was time to start reposing, what did you decide to put up soon and tray? The extraordinary contribution of the energy sector. It was then, they stopped paying. Retirement pay? Oh, my God! Don't! There was a need for an entire legislature. You see, Mrs. Member? They are clear options, they are clear choices that have been made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u239	And these workers were victims of deep injustice, of deep disrespect...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u240	It's true, but it wasn't us!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u241	...and a deep lie. Why? Note what I am going to say: because previous governments, in that logic of reducing the number of workers in the state business sector, began to convince the workers that it was important to retire to leave and that they would receive their pension and complete in all. The previous government has come, what have you done? He cut in the pension supplements. This is a brutal betrayal that has been done to the workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u243	... that they had financial commitments and that they had to ensure. But you never thought about it. It was the bankers... they could never pay anything, for those is that I could never miss money.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u244	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u245	As well as the great economic power in Portugal... [[Who?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u246	Look, EDP never complained about you, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u247	By the way, it's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u248	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what was fundamental? Retire these pension supplements, and today Parliament is in a position to do, of course, with the right vote by the Greens. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u249	For an intervention, Mr President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Affairs States has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is associated with this debate to inform the House that the budget proposal rests the pension supplements to employees of companies in the state business sector. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] It is not to know who wins this race in these seats, but to restore rights. It is not one of the benches that constitutes the majority of this Parliament that will win any race, even the workers, who will see their rights restored.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u251	To get back to the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u252	The PSD Member has read the text of the agreements. I would invite Mrs. Deputy to read the PS Election Program, and quickly realize that the PS is only fulfilling its electoral commitments, prior to the agreements. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Good governance must respect a set of consensual principles: justice, equality, proportionality, transparency, trust and effectiveness. In case of conflict, a government should be able to find a legitimate balance in the light of our constitutional and ethical order. There is, however, a fundamental principle which is rarely verbalized by the mere reason we judge it assured: the principle of defending the dignity of citizens. As this Parliament is going to revoke, it is the finished example of a policy that does not meet the basic principle of governance that respects the dignity of workers and pensioners. This is a measure that for two years imposed a reduction that in some cases represents more than half of the monthly income of former employees of public enterprises. Former workers who, in a negotiated manner, agreed to advance their reforms, therefore paid due penalty and received in exchange for public undertakings, i.e. the shareholder State supplementary pension. After all, the same pension supplements that, years later, that same State came to drastically, unexpectedly and unjustly reduce. Former workers who today, without an effective opportunity to return to the labour market, have been deprived, at one time or another, of an important share of their income, in an arbitrary decision, capable of destroying the confidence that citizens can place in the State. in the midst of so many policies of the previous government that have involved pensioners and the public sector, this measure impresses by its punitive and violent character, gravely attacking the dignity of these pensioners. by his deeply unjust illustrious charity, this is one of those measures that can easily translate what might — and in this case it was — a right-wing government. Today, the time has finally come to put an end to this humiliation. This measure does not take place in decent society that we want to build, it is mandatory, but also possible, to govern respecting the dignity of workers and pensioners. It is possible to live better in Portugal. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u253	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, i.e. of the old majority, we are in fact hostages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u255	They're hostages to the extreme left!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u256	...we're hostages but it's our word. We are hostage to our commitments, which, in fact, you have some difficulty in understanding. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So once again, the Socialist Party is doing what hurts you a lot, which is fulfilling what it promises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, for a long time there has been no such practice, in fact, for four years there has been no such practice in Parliament and in the country. That's the difference. Asking who wins, somehow, the government has already given the answer: who wins are the Portuguese, is the country, is the trust,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u257	Trust me! You're looking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u258	... are the principles. This is because, at this moment, we can have absolute certainty: the commitments of the Portuguese State, the commitment to the workers, to those who have abdicated and agreed to go to reform with a guarantee of the State, with a complement, these commitments will be restored and will be fulfilled, things that you have not been able to do, even after the departure of the troika, of such clean exit that much dirty has left. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u259	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u260	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: I begin by recalling that already in 2014, before the position of the Constitutional Court, the CFP addressing workers and reformers clearly stated: « Only the struggle will impose the end of theft on workers and reformers », and so it was. The workers went to the fight, did not lower their arms, did not give up, the PSD government and the CDS kept repeating« We did not pay! And the workers said: « Pay, pay! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u261	We don't pay, who pays is the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u262	And what happens is that the struggle has been worth it again, although we will see in what state the PSD has been in for having to discuss and vote on this proposal, the uncontrolled anger, the lack of control, what appeared here, the state in which the PSD was left for confronting this measure of elementary justice, the state being a person of good, fulfilling the given word and returning to the workers and reformers what should never have been stolen. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] We have already heard the PSD get angry, tearing off the clothes with this thing that we are reverting to the decisions they have made, and we have now come back to the reformers what they have stolen from them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u263	Don't be wrong and don't take everything from them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u264	Well, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the galleries, there are the men and women who come here for what is yours and which the House owes them. Tell them there now, if they have been able, your diatribe on privileged, on sacrifices for all, after all that they have done with BES, with Banif, with the tax havens that they have given to the rich, more they have tried to do, but they have not succeeded, because the people have not left, with the criminal surrender of Metropolitan and Carris to the great economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u265	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u266	I'm done now, Mr. President. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! No more exploitation and impoverishment, no more reforms cut to treason and, no matter how much it costs, what has been stolen from these workers will even be restored. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u267	Don't be wrong and don't take everything from them!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-20.u268	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m., and the agenda will be filled with political statements. The sitting is closed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[It was 19 hours and 32 minutes.]]
