ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the authorities to open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on our agenda today there are three points, considering the vote. First of all, we will hold the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. Who opens the debate is Mr Luís Montenegro, by the PSD. You have the floor to put your questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, in recent days we have learned that the Government has, about half a year ago, an OECD report on the impact of the measures taken in recent years on the labour market. I will not waste much time illustrating how the government has dealt with the transparency of its work — I think this example is one more example to add to others that we have lived in the last few months — nor to illustrate the government's difficulty in subjecting itself to the scrutiny of its activities. I'll be a little more direct, if I may, Prime Minister. It is evidence that this report illustrates that the Portuguese economy has gained competitiveness and has gained conditions to recover jobs, due to changes to the labour laws that have been undertaken and which have provided economic operators with the most favourable conditions for investment. We know what the Communist Party and the Left Block think on this subject, but we do not know exactly what the Prime Minister thinks and therefore my question is very simple: what does the Government and the Prime Minister understand should or should not be done in terms of labour law? Is there any intention of the Government to revisit this legislation and, if so, to reverse it, as its partners support, its co-complicit governance of the Communist Party and the Left Block, or on the other hand, does the Prime Minister recognise what this report shows, which is the positive effect on the economy and on the use of those which have been the amendments made in recent years? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u3	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u4	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I thank you for your question and I take advantage of you personally to wish all Members of the PPD / PSD good Christmas and to make vows of happy New Year 2017. Turning to your question, I have difficulty answering because, unlike you, I do not know the report you are talking about at all. One thing I assure you: we did not have this report six months ago and the only information we got from the OECD, following the news published, was that at the end of this week this report, which was commissioned by the previous government at the end of 2015, would be handed over to the Government. On the other hand, as regards the question of what we want to do either I or you are in the same condition: we both know what the Government Programme says. The Government's programme has a very clear view of the labour market: income must be restored to combat poverty and reduce inequalities; collective bargaining must be unblocked, which has been blocked; there must be a firm fight against precariousness and, in this sense, we have presented in social dialogue a green book of labour relations and we will soon present in social dialogue a national programme to combat precariousness. That's what we want to do, that's what we're going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u5	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, of course, on behalf of the PSD bench, I would like to thank and pay back the votes of Happy Days to the whole Government and now to all others present, in particular the parliamentarians of the other parliamentary groups. Mr Prime Minister, we are then left to know that what has been made known publicly does not exist, that it is an invention. There is no report, the Government does not possess any information from the OECD on the impact of labour law on the competitiveness of the economy and on job creation. But your answer, Prime Minister, to refer to the Government's Programme was not direct to the issue I put to you. The question that I put to you and that I am going to put again is this: do you want or not, the Government and the Prime Minister, to reverse those changes which have been made to labour legislation in the last Parliament and which have been responsible for producing this effect? Do you or do you not want to, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u7	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u8	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, accompanied by you in the perplexity of having indeed come to the public—and, by the way, you know—a report which the previous Government has given to the OECD and which has not yet been handed over to the current Government. And I didn't say it didn't exist. I just said it wasn't delivered to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u9	Ah! After all, it can exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u10	It is not « may exist », it exists... [[Ah! Is there?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u11	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to continue to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u12	Maybe, a little while ago, I wasn't clear. [[It wasn't, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u13	Recently, he said that, following the news coming to the public, we contacted OECD, who told us that he would deliver the report to us by the end of this week. Therefore, as I assume that the OECD has not made the report this week, it is clear that the report exists. I only express the perplexity, which you also express, of this report, existing, having been reported and handed over to you before you were handed over to the Government. I am puzzled, but if you think it is normal, simply register it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the Government Programme, I not only told you that... I can wait a bit for Dr. Passos Coelho to pass on all the instructions, because I realize that he has difficulty listening to both at the same time, Mr. Luís Montenegro. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u14	In fact, there's no Christmas worth you! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u15	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to continue, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u16	Mr President, I would like to continue when there are conditions to continue. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u17	Please continue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u18	As for what the Government intends to do, it is to implement its Programme and not more than to implement its Programme. With regard to the amendment of legislation, as you know, the amendment exists in order to unlock collective bargaining, which is blocked, the necessary conditions for combating precariousness and the issue of the individual hourly bank. Apart from this, we have no commitment and there is nothing in the Government's programme on this amendment. It is known that the PCP and the Left Block have other proposals for amending labour law...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u19	And good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u20	Perhaps, good or bad, but they are those of the PCP, they are those of the Left Block. Those of the Government are those of the Government's Programme and those of the honourable Member. Therefore, it is not worth wanting to create a conflict where there is reciprocal knowledge of the difference, nor does it want to eliminate a difference that is not negligible, taking into account the well-known position of the CFP, the known position of the Block and the constant position of the Government Programme to which I have the honour to preside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u21	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, we want to have a high debate. [[PS laughter.]] Let me tell you that I do not receive instructions, but the Prime Minister needed you to receive them because he had more information in order to be able to answer the questions objectively. [[PSD applause.]] But the members of the Government who are on your far-CL bench will get you the information that Mr. Prime Minister needs to answer. At least a little bit, or a little bit, as you like to say. We have also learned — and I am aware — that Mr Prime Minister seems to have wanted to say here that the OECD does a bit like the Portuguese Government: first, "plant" news, put things in the newspapers and then try to explain. Look, you've infected OECD, Prime Minister. That has happened a lot to your government! [[PSD applause.]] But, realizing your trouble and realizing that you don't want to go to the bottom of the matter or answer, we're going to go ahead. It is only and only another re-edition of your lack of answers. Secondly, Mr. Prime Minister: the wounded of the Holy Spirit Group. One more case of lack of appearance...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u23	Appearance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u24	Lack of appearance, that's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u25	Another case of lack of transparency and, yes, of appearance, because we have been waiting for many months for your promises. He promised that it was before the summer, then it was then on Friday, he went on to Monday, but finally one year after several pre-announcements that were made, Mr. Prime Minister announced to the country a decision whose contours did not reveal or clarify. And he didn't even answer the journalists' questions, I'm not talking only about opposition parties anymore. What we know, in the good manner of the OECD, as Mr. Prime Minister said here, is what comes in the newspapers. That's what we know! There is no document that has been sent to Parliament, Members are unaware of what the agreement the government has reached. And, Mr Prime Minister, I am not going to repeat questions here so that Mr Prime Minister can say exactly what the terms of the agreement are, because I run the risk of you doing as usual and not answering. So now I intend to make your life easier, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u26	You give up the lack of appearance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u27	It's Christmas!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u28	The State, as far as the news is concerned, assumes the losses of the injured members of the Espírito Santo Group, regardless of their judicial recognition, and creates a fund exactly to pay those money. The fund, to pay, goes to the bank and is indebted, but meanwhile, it will quarrel in the courts as a creditor of the Espírito Santo Group and the money it recovers from the bank debt it has already contracted. If the money does not arrive or if the courts do not recognize these credits at the bottom, pay the taxpayers, pay the State. That was the assumption of the responsibility of the Government. Mr. Prime Minister, is there any element in what I'm saying to you and what do you get from the news? What's missing or is that exactly what I just told you? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u29	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u30	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I do not know whether OECD behaves like you say it behaves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u31	Mr. Prime Minister said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u32	There is news that I do not believe it was the OECD to put in, record that you know a report that should have been handed over to the government and was not, but I am also waiting for you to be kind enough to offer us the report you have without having to wait for the OECD. Or doesn't he have it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u33	No, I don't have it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u34	Don't you have it? Oh, my God! It's just that I was so informed about what the report says that I thought I had it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regarding the injured of BES, his mouth fled to the truth when he spoke of the lack of appearance. This problem only exists, because the previous government was lacking in comparison with its resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] on Monday, the working group composed of the Association of Lesados do BES, the Banco de Portugal and the CMVM handed over to the Government and the injured of BES the proposal for a solution, a solution that responds to one of the conclusions adopted unanimously in the Commission of Inquiry of this Assembly and also in Resolution No 67 / 2015 of the Assembly of the Republic, which provided for the establishment of expatriate, judicial or extrajudicial mechanisms for the resolution of disputes that occurred as a result of crisis situations in financial institutions. To do nothing would be to let the State incur a risk of high responsibilities. What the solution foresees is based on the following assumption: first, as is known, CMVM (the Securities Market Committee) has already acknowledged that, in general situations, the commercial role of ESI (Espirito Santo Informática ) and RioForte is consistent with a misselling situation, subject to compensation. Secondly, in the counter-ordination processes already established, there is evidence that misselling was involved in the placing of this commercial role. It is very important that the Banco de Portugal, before the resolution, and seeking to protect the situation of those injured, impose provisions. These provisions began, in fact, by being registered in the New Bank and then for some reason that someone will be able to explain better than I, these provisions were withdrawn from the New Bank balance sheet, leaving the injured who had a protection that the Banco de Portugal had determined that they were insured. This means that the risk of compensation was particularly high and what was sought was to have a solution in which a vehicle is constituted, which will not be of a public nature but private nature, which will not be financed by the State, but which will have private funding and the guarantee that the State will only intervene as guarantor, and that... [[PSD laughter.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish. As I said, the amount of appropriations paid is EUR 485 million. The amount to be purchased is EUR 286 million, distributed in three years. This fund will, together with those responsible for misselling and other responsible, recover the money it is due. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u35	If there is an excess, it will be properly shared with the injured. The probability of no recovery is small,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u36	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u37	..., as the result of the study prepared by the Catholic University and the methodology for the clearance of the value of 285 million euros, which results from the sum of three fundamental plots: one, which would always have the right to receive...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u38	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u39	Mr President, I will try to conclude, but then Mr Luís Montenegro will say that I do not answer the question that has been put. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u40	Mr. Prime Minister, you have several possibilities to conclude later on in other answers. [[PSD protests.]] Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, the methodology for the clearance of the amount of EUR 285 million results from three plots. First, a share of 139 million, which is the indicative amount resulting from what any creditor would always receive, taking into account the application of the rules of the resolution itself. Secondly, an amount of EUR 80 million resulting from the liquidation itself. Thirdly, an amount of between EUR 70 million and EUR 80 million resulting from the claims already made in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u42	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u43	As you know, the full amount of these funds is guaranteed by the preventive arrest of EUR 1, EUR 8 billion, which far exceeds the guaranteed amount, so the probability of being activated the guarantee is a small probability and therefore also the risk that it may ever have to be borne by public coffers is small. In any case, it would never be the public safes to pay, because then it would fall, yes, on the Resolution Fund, i.e. on the banks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u44	The Bureau makes an effort to ensure that all speakers in the debate correspond to the time allocated to them, regardless of the difficulty and complexity of the issues that are raised. Obviously, from now on there must also be an opening for the other parliamentary groups. To speak again, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, in your words, the State only guarantees. That is not enough, therefore — the State only guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u46	It's a responsible guarantee.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u47	If the fund that is to be set up cannot, on a judicial basis, be able to collect enough to pay the debt that is to be incurred, what we have learned — even without a document, because the Prime Minister has not yet sent it to Parliament — is that the state will be the final guarantor. Indeed, Mr Prime Minister, it is good that you have made an allusion to the previous legislation, because the previous government has never, in similar situations, made taxpayers pay for what must be assumed by financial agents. And that is what happened in the Holy Spirit Group. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] We know that your thesis was a little different, that, perhaps, it was better not to have dropped the Banco Espírito Santo and to have lent money to Dr. Ricardo Salgado. We know that this is your position, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u48	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u49	Therefore, it is very coherent and it is quite understandable to mention the lack of appearance. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister thought that in 2014 the State should have come and put money from taxpayers also at the Banco Espírito Santo. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u50	That is the conclusion we have drawn, Prime Minister. But I do not want to end this debate without talking about the last issue. I think you can take advantage of the various interventions of the banks that support the government, which are many, all those who are here on my right side...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u51	I'm on the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u52	...to talk about public investment. Mr Prime Minister gave the country a few days ago with a remarkable statement that it had been a mistake — no doubt! — diabolising public investment in Portugal. What a rejection, since it was the Prime Minister who, in the last 65 years—see well! — further lowered public investment in Portugal, at the point of 2016, at the end of the year, the State came to have a public investment expenditure of 1, 8 % of GDP ( Gross Domestic Product ), when in 2015 it had 2, 4 %. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u53	Only here is an explanation of six tenths for the budgetary consolidation that you have been doing during the year and for that plan b that you have never wanted to take. Mr. Prime Minister, a Prime Minister who promised more public investment—which was, moreover, a touchstone of economic policy—and which in 2016 has less public investment than he had in all previous years still has the courage to say to the country that it was a mistake to devilize public investment? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, with roads that are about to be built and others on which no maintenance is made,... [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u54	You want roads, too? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u55	... with schools that are closing because they have no investment,... [[PS protests.]] [[PSD applause.]] ... with health centres, hospitals, prisons—which have no money to buy food—with public transport...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u56	Mr President, I ask you to summarize the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u57	I'm going to synthesize it, Mr. President. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has to go back to the subject. the other time he talked about the boats of the Tagus, now he can also talk about the remaining public transport, that is, the railway, the road...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u58	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u59	You can't wash your hands from there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u60	Mr Prime Minister, you are proud to have a deficit of less than 3 % now,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u61	That's what hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u62	Well, in four years, we passed your deficit from 11, 2 % to 3 %. Now it's going to come down a few tenths. I'm glad it's going to be less than 3%! But, Prime Minister, at what cost? At the expense of extraordinary revenues, such as tax forgiveness, at the cost of defining the public service, which affects the lives of people, who are having difficulty accessing the main public systems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u63	You must conclude, Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u64	...and at the expense of public investment! Mr. Prime Minister, the Portuguese state...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u65	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish. The fairness of times is already more than done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the Portuguese State had not spent so little of its gross domestic product since 1951, since the post-war height, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u67	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u68	This is the reality, this is your mark on public investment! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u69	Mr President, I thank you for concluding, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u70	It seems that it was Mr. Prime Minister who made a pact with the Devil. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u71	You now have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César. Continuation of PSD applause. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not get up early to begin my speech so as not to be a recipient of the PSD Parliamentary Group's applause. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, in this fortnight debate I will not talk about what we have decided in the last 15 days, but about the last 15 months, about the time of a new government, which has begun a new path to Portugal. A path of hope, although in a time without dangers and uncertainties, in a European economic area full of questions and involved in a geography of vulnerabilities and close conflicts. A path, however, that the opposition claimed to be the one from the return to instability. It is in view of the fact that there is an aspect in which everyone unanimously assesses the Portuguese political situation is precisely the proof of political stability that has been given through parliamentary cooperation between the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens, ensuring the adoption of fundamental documents for government action, including two State budgets, for 2016 and 2017, which are equally validated by the European Union. Cooperation with the autonomous regions, with the local authorities and among all the sovereign bodies is another of the rulers of this situation that we are living in. Another aspect that is the domain of public perception is that of social stability: 2016 is the year with fewer strikes of the decade. In short, neither political instability nor institutional instability nor social instability. They failed the demands of the opposition, they won all the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opposition also called for the collapse of public finances in what it said was — and I quote — a path that would inevitably lead us to another rescue. on the contrary, this year's deficit will be the lowest in Portuguese democracy. Portugal, by the hands of the PS Government, will depart from the Excessive Deficit Procedure. The Government demonstrates that it is possible to associate a policy of economic improvement and social responsibility with a policy of financial responsibility and good public accounts, fulfilling the Constitution and defending Portuguese interests in European contexts. In summary, and once again, he failed the opposition in his bad agoiro, but won Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The action of the new Government could not, nor could it, ignore the suffering inflicted on people and families in recent years, thus initiating a process and path of recovery of their income, security and rights. A path that the opposition unleashed, calling it a waste. The cuts in pensions, salaries of civil servants and the overtax of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) have been eliminated; family allowance has been extended; the reference value of social income for inclusion and the solidarity supplement for the elderly has been restated; the single provision of disability has been increased; we have reduced the moderation rates and admitted more 1000 doctors, 1596 nurses, 312 diagnostic and therapeutic technicians; we have launched the procedures for the rehabilitation of 36 health centres and for the construction of new hospitals; we have extended the social energy rate; we have established the free allocation of school textbooks. We did that and we did a lot more! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] In short, the opposition thinks we spend money, but the Portuguese know we invest in people and families. The opposition says, pejoratively, that we rule by distributing money. No, this is to govern by doing justice to those who have been unjustly wronged, fighting poverty and also helping who is and was in need. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of other opening sentences of the opposition. One of them, precisely one year ago tomorrow, was that the government was starting badly to increase the national minimum wage, which would lead to the explosion of unemployment. After all, we will increase and continue to increase the minimum wage, ending one of the biggest factors of injustice and poverty in our country and, at the same time, we have today better companies and less unemployment than the one PSD and CDS left us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Employment shows the highest growth in the European Union. There are more than 100 000 net jobs in Portugal and less than 85 000 unemployed. The unemployment rate is the lowest in the last seven years. In summary, the opposition felt that poverty was the employment friend and we proved otherwise. The opposition has lost, fortunately, and thousands of Portuguese families have won with it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They promised and announced the path of economic recession. We took action and gained confidence. We have not neglected the need to bet on the growth of the economy and to prevent any changes in the conditions of debt service. But we've got work done! Economic growth in the third quarter was the third highest in Europe, exports reached the highest ever value in the third quarter and Portugal reached the largest trade surplus ever. Consumer confidence has reached the highest value of the last 16 years. The economic climate improved almost twice as much towards the end of last year, demonstrating the trust of entrepreneurs. In summary, we have heard from the opposition that the economy is worse, from the reality we have concluded that the economy is better! Worse for the opposition, better for Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The opposition, at the time of the approval of the current Government's programme, accused us of impeachment. So we were sure that much of the government's inheritance would be a fantasy. This is what we found in the financial sector: the BANIF had to be resolved by government incurrence; the New Bank is impossible to be sold by the value that the previous Government guarantees; the General Deposit Box had to be recapitalized and it is the current government that has to mobilize resources for this purpose. All this costs money, a lot of money, but it would have cost much less if, in its own time and with the resources that were made available to stabilize the financial sector,... [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] ... the previous government had acted in a timely and competent manner. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] This was the same attitude of lack of appearance, although with greater responsibility also of Banco de Portugal, which was the basis of much of the problem of the injured, either with regard to BES, or with regard to BANIF. And it is good to explain here, as Mr. Prime Minister has already done, everything that is to be explained in the solution of these processes. In summary, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition has given us the illusion of the so-called clean exit, but what has left us was a land mined with high costs for the whole country and for all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I will finish, Mr. Prime Minister, by telling you that it is about the future that I call on you. We know that the country we have is not the country we ambition, but we already know that this is the way we have to go to the country we have to have. Mr. Prime Minister, a good year for the government, which is like who says a good year for Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u73	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u74	Mr President, Mr César, I reserve Christmas celebrations for dinner for the PS Parliamentary Group to invite me, but I would like to say that, in fact, the synthesis you made over the last year shows the strength and stability of the political solution that the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Green Party have managed to build and how the Government has been able to honour its Programme and the commitments it has made with its parliamentary base and with the Portuguese. That is why it is high time we focus on the future, which is based, firstly, on the priority of continuing the income replacement policy: it will disappear to 91 % of Portuguese people in January, the overtax on IRS; we will see real increases in pension pensions; we will continue to update the national minimum wage, as we started last year and as planned in the Government Programme; we will unlock collective bargaining and strengthen social support; we will continue the reinstatement of income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, we will continue the growth growth strategy on the basis of investment. This year, for 2015, the number of contracts increased 11 % and the resources mobilised increased 33 %. next year, we will have an increase in public investment by 22 % compared to this year. But we also created conditions for increasing private investment, in particular by improving the position of companies' treasury with the new customs VAT system or with incentives for innovation and the creation of enterprises, such as the Seed programme, directed in particular to startups. Our priority is also to continue to develop the social state, generalizing the pre-school to all children from three years of age, ensuring a family doctor to all Portuguese, with incentives to fix doctors within our country, creating the unique social benefit for the disabled person and also continuing to develop the best conditions for anyone to be excluded from school, including extending to all 1. the cycle the freeness of school textbooks. Finally, I stress the priority to knowledge and innovation, strengthening investment in culture, in particular for the preservation of heritage and also to create the conditions for restoring the necessary funds to support cultural creation. We have strengthened the funding for science to ensure the stability of the financing of higher education institutions and the fight against precariousness in scientific employment, because it is essential to give stability to those who are engaged in research and education in higher education. We therefore have good reason to continue to reverse the austerity policy which was followed in the previous four years. But we have motive for more: to agree on the implementation of the National Reform Programme, which is the key to solving once and for all the structural problems that have blocked a strong growth of the Portuguese economy since the beginning of the century and which have kept the country in a long stagnation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the six pillars of the National Reform Programme have to be our letter of tide over the next year, from now on in the valorization of Portuguese in a generalized way, from pre-school until we re-invest, as is essential, in adult education and in lifelong training, with the Qualifica program. We want to place educational success at the heart of the concerns of our education policy and, therefore, all school groups have a program for the educational process and we have a new method of evaluation that, allowing the early detection of the needs of each child, will allow the school to intervene early so that all children have equal opportunities in education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] with regard to innovation, we have placed a greater link between companies and sources of knowledge production with the development programme of technological innovation centres and the promotion of qualified employment. I also highlight the development that we have been developing in partnership with all companies in the various industrial sectors of the 4.0 programme and the implementation of our Startup Portugal programme. We have placed ourselves in the modernization of the state, giving priority to the simplification and decentralization that I have spoken here for a long time in the last 15-year debate. This simplification, made in the generalization of electronic notification as an alternative to paper notification, is a good way not only to improve the functioning of the State, but also of the saving state in what is redundant to invest in what is necessary, such as reopening the courts that have been closed and that must be reopened so that justice can be close. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the priority of valuing the territory in its diversity, we are concluding the public debate on the forest reform package so that it is effectively a priority of the political action of our State and not only a cause of distress when, in summer, forest fires arise. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even today, in the Council of Ministers, we have adopted a fundamental diploma to value our sea, with the new licensing regime for aquaculture enterprises. We have also created the financial instrument to strengthen urban rehabilitation policy, which is essential for affordable housing in the city centre, which can reach EUR 1 billion. This is an investment at the service of urban rehabilitation, the dynamization of cities and accessible housing, particularly for young families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the capitalisation pillar of companies, in the first quarter of 2017 we will bring to the Assembly of the Republic a package of legislation on economic justice, which is essential to speed up the processes of conversion or closure of companies in insolvency, in order to recover assets, protect employment and allow business restructuring. Finally, with regard to the pillar of poverty eradication and the fight against inequalities, the policy of income and social support that we will continue to develop will be at the heart of our concerns. Therefore, Mr Carlos César and other Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we are proud of the work that, with your support, we have done throughout this year, but the outcome of this year should not invite us to accommodation, on the contrary, should motivate us to go further. We will continue to prove that, contrary to what the right has said for four years, there was even an alternative to austerity policy and, moreover, that the alternative produces results that are good for the country: we have less deficit, less unemployment, more growth and more income for families, more confidence in the economy and more investment by companies. That is the way we should go, and that is the way we will go. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u75	It is the turn of the Left Block to ask Mr. Prime Minister. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u76	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to start with a political note and I would like to ask you two questions, based on news this week. I think it is good to say that, with what we know about the forecasts of the deficit for this year, after impoverishing the country, in the name of deficit targets that it has never achieved, the right is absolutely without arguments. Portugal recorded the lowest deficit in four decades, in a year of recovery of wages, pensions and social support. Mr. Prime Minister, the Left Block does not measure the success of policies by the right-wing bottle and the deficit that the Government can take pride today has, in our view, too high a cost. Even today, the Carcavelos school announces that if it does not have works it will not be able to open in January and there are emergencies at the Hospital de São João with a waiting period of more than six hours. The contrast between the goals of the deficit and the crisis of essential public services can demonstrate that Portugal is winning a race in Europe but that they are all running in the opposite direction. In fact, the euro rules prove to be absurd every day and the urgent need is to restructure public debt. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we didn't run away on any subjects. As you know, in relation to the damage to BES, the solution is published at the headquarters of the CMVM and needs to be analyzed very carefully, as it is a complex matter. There are injured people who stay out of this agreement. On the other hand, apparently, guarantees are being given to risk products that neither the deposits have guaranteed in the law and, as you should understand, the Left Block will carefully examine all the implications for taking a position on something that surely costs the country in the future. There is one matter which cannot be left behind, while negotiating this solution, which is to prevent further damage from taking place. After the damage to BES we have already had the damage to BANIF. Following the conclusions of the BES Committee of Inquiry, adopted unanimously, it was said : « Banks must be prohibited from selling risk products to the counter ». Now, the Left Block, in 2015, attempted to adopt this measure in the Assembly of the Republic. The PSD and CDS voted against for the bank's impunity to continue. The PS, at the time, abstained. The Socialist Party is changing its sense of vote and we are in a position to say that there will be no harm in the future. The question I ask you is whether the government does not think this is the time to change the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u77	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u78	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I thank you for your questions and I wish you and all the Members of the Block on the Left, a happy Christmas and an excellent year of 2017. From the outset, we have made a threefold commitment: the commitment to the parties that make possible the existence of this government, from the outset the Left Block ; the commitment that we, as PS, had taken with the Portuguese and the international commitment of the country. I do not meddle in the success of this government action only by the result of the deficit. I call on the deficit to demonstrate that, contrary to what the right said, it is possible to change policy and still have better results than the right had in relation to the deficit. But I measure the results of this government action when I see unemployment falling, when I see the income of families rising, when I see greater social support, when I see from 70,000 to almost 800 000 families benefiting from the social energy tariff. That is how I am working on the success of this political solution, in which the Left Block has been a party and without its participation this solution would not exist either. It's known we don't agree on everything. It is not a drama, we live well with our difference—I think I would even say that we live comfortably with our differences. It is very clear that we need to put our financial system in order, which means not only ensuring that it has conditions of proper capitalisation in order to be stable and not a risk factor, but also that it does not have risk behaviours and that it is a financial system that favours the investment where it should exist, which is in support of the economy. For example, I see it as a non-positive sign that the recovery of the credit award will take place again in support of consumer credit or housing credit. I believe that addiction in this type of financing weakens the resources needed to invest in what is essential: productive investment, wealth generator, employment and a new profile for our economy. We will be able to study the proposals that the Left Block wants to make and we are obviously available for this. I cannot speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, for which Mr Charles César will speak, with all authority, but what I would like to say is that the proposal that the working group presented to the Government, to the injured, and which is in public view must be well examined. First, so that there are no misconceptions—it is not the State that will buy the credit; the credit must be bought and charged to whom it must pay, which is responsible for having injured people in the sale of fraudulent products and for the fraudulent way they were sold.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u79	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u80	This is what needs to be guaranteed and so that, as the Assembly of the Republic unanimously said, there is an urgent way of satisfaction with these injuries, because its satisfaction is also the way we contribute to collective confidence in the financial system. Collective trust is not only the trust of shareholders; it is, first, the trust of bank customers, which have to have in relation to the banks of which they are customers. It is for this confidence that we want to contribute and that this solution seeks to rescue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u81	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u82	Mr President, Prime Minister, risk products are still being sold to the banks' counters, i.e. they may now be creating new injuries. We need a clear word about the end of this situation. It has not yet been today, but the Left Block here will bring its proposals, again, to see if we are going. Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you another question. The Left Block is certainly proud of the path we are taking together and of the political solution we have found, despite the criticisms it has and which we have always presented frontally, as I have just done. One of the ways in which we pride ourselves is the agreement we signed with the Socialist Party and which allowed, even with European and employers' pressures, the minimum wage to €505 for €557 in 14 months. It's little, but it's a little bit to return to the workers the historical debt that employers have to those with whom they have lower wages in Portugal. There's something we don't understand. We do not understand how the government offers discounts to employers in the TSU (unique social rate ). It is that if a year ago the discount was justified by the fact that the minimum wage increased at the last hour — the employers were not waiting, the companies had no time to organize themselves — now they knew for more than a year that the minimum wage would be at least € 557. They had plenty of time to organize. It is in the Government Programme. What justification is there for taxpayers to finance the wages of private companies? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u83	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u84	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we are looking for a balanced solution. I am not going to develop it much, because, as you know, it is now going to be the meeting of the Social Consensus Council and none of us can anticipate what the outcome of that meeting will be. We know what is in the Government Programme, what is in the agreements we have signed and what is the trajectory that has been defined. We will arrive at 600 € minimum salary in 2019 and the value will be 557 €, in 2017 — that is clear. I wonder why we make this proposal. As you know, this is not the first time that has happened in the past and is happening in many countries of the European Union. And it happens as a way of having some sharing when the increase in the minimum wage is not limited to being mere update based on inflation, nor the update due to productivity gains. As you know, if only that was the criterion, the minimum wage would be only €540. What we're doing is going further. We did it this year, in 2016, we are doing it again for 2017, we will continue to do it until we reach 600 € and then we will have to continue because we believe that the increase in national minimum wage is a way to reduce inequalities. For this reason, there is also a social policy dimension that does not simply deal with remuneration and its calculation by the normal form of calculation for updates. It is only in this measure and in part of this measure that we believe it is reasonable that, from the State's efforts to social policies, we can reduce that which was the increase in revenue and not actually increase our expenditure. Can we call it tax expense? Yes, it is fiscal expenditure, but it means abdicating a bit of the increase in revenue to also not penalise the increase, because we must not forget that an increase for the worker is now very limited by the additional burden that this increase entails in respect of transfers to the State. The State's lack of this increase in revenue for the State does not mean that social security does not continue to see its revenue increased but frees and creates conditions for workers to have a higher direct increase in their income and also creates lower pressure on many companies, because unfortunately the degree of economic degradation we had in the country over the past four years has not been unilateral, but multilateral. Workers, small and medium-sized enterprises and IPSS lost a lot, as well as many sectors where the number of minimum wage employment contracts has a very significant weight. Therefore, we must also look at the importance of these sectors in the dynamisation of the economy at the same time and ensure, as has happened this year, that the minimum wage and income are increased. This does not in any way affect job creation; on the contrary, it contributes positively to continuing to create jobs and combat unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u85	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u86	Mr President, Prime Minister, we cannot agree with the view that the national minimum wage is a social policy. It is not a social policy, it is a payout of work, it is wages, and when it was frozen, the capital accumulated. More: the increase in the country's productivity, since the minimum wage was created so far, according to data from the CGTP that no one has denied, would give to be discussing a minimum wage in the order of 900 € and not of 600 €. And therefore there is no justification for companies having to be financed by taxpayers to pay wages which are still below the minimum. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, there are two other issues I would like to talk to you about. I know that you have no time to answer me, but I do not lose hope that, during this debate, there will be an opportunity to talk about them. Even this month and in the first half of 2017, the government will be called upon to take a position on whether or not it continues with PPP (public-private partnerships) of health management because that is what is foreseen in contracts. That is to say, the opportunity is open, at no cost of litigation, to end PPP in health, and this is a good opportunity if it is used to revert these hospitals to public management. The expenditure on health PPPs will be EUR 431 million in 2016 and EUR 448 million in 2017, and the State budget expects it to cost more EUR 1807 million until the end of the contracts. It's a public resource bleed. And, therefore, the urgency is to do — and it is possible to do so now — that the hospitals of Braga and Cascais return to public management.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u88	The big argument to launch PPPs was investment. And the privates said that to invest in building hospitals, they wanted to keep the management, not because things were related, but because the business soul was the management that guarantees a income and, at the same time, increased the scale of their private hospitals — great business for the private, bad business for the public. Management was the second argument, but health and management indicators never proved that PPPs were better than public hospitals, in some indicators are behind and the Health Regulatory Entity (ERS ) does not see any advantage in this model. So all that remains is the disadvantage of us being paying with public money something that is a private profit, at the end of the PPP accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u90	Moreover, we are in the absurd situation of having made contracts with some companies that have been changing hands. Does it make any sense that the PPP of Cascais was a Portuguese group, which then passed to a Brazilian group and now to an American group? Or that Loures's PPP is a Chinese group? What does this have to do with the public interest of the National Health Service? Nothing! [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] And, therefore, the only way to protect the National Health Service is to take advantage of this opportunity and revert to public management the hospitals of Braga and Cascais, which can and should be done now. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The other issue that I wanted to talk to you about very briefly is clearance. in Amadora, there are families to be cleared without any alternative. It's not a single case, but it's perhaps the most violent. Well, I know it's precarious dwellings, lots of huts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u91	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u92	But if people see their homes destroyed, they have no alternative. The Special Realisation Program( PER) was done 23 years ago, the census of people who needed homes was done 23 years ago and was not updated! There are now families — women, children, the elderly, adults — living in disastrous conditions and seeing their already fragile ceilings being demolished, without any solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u93	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u94	The Ombudsman and the United Nations Special Rapporteur on human rights noted the evidence: a new census is needed. Portugal is not fulfilling the most basic human rights of these people. I conclude with two questions. When does the government make the new census? And do we have the government's commitment to no more waste and demolition without alternative housing solutions for families? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u95	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u96	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is, I believe, a special debate. We are at the end of the year, your united Left Government has also completed one year. You and your partners in the Left Block and the CFP and also the Greens and the NAP are responsible for two budgets and a Stability Programme, you have applied your economic model and your policies. On the other hand, in the last few weeks, data have been on fire which also enables the work of the previous government to be evaluated in some areas. I would even say that if Mr Prime Minister wants to have some political and intellectual honesty, he has to reflect on these data that have come to light, of which I give him three examples. Regarding inequality, the latest data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) show, black in white, that in 2014 and 2015 there was a sharp decrease in inequality in our country, to the point that in 2015 we will be better than in 2008, and that poverty has also fallen in 2015. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u97	Regarding education, the elements of the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment) and TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study) exams reveal significant progress by our students, who for the first time are above the OECD average ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). After all, the previous policies may not have been so bad...! with regard to employment, according to the news, the OECD study, which has to be coming and which we are waiting for — if Mr Prime Minister does not have it, I do not have it so little — shows the positive effects of the work reform carried out by the previous Government, which probably explains why, even without significant economic growth, we are able to create jobs and reduce unemployment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u98	After all, in none of these areas, inequality, education or labour policy, the previous government did harm, as Mr. Prime Minister and the left-wings want to believe. But let's go to the other side, let's go to the promises and commitments of the Prime Minister and his government. First, it promised an economic growth of 2, 4 %, the famous economic growth that would solve all problems. We will see, at the end of the year, but the truth is that it will be around 1, 2 % away from the growth of 1, 6 % that the previous government achieved in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u100	And I must tell you that we are all the more concerned when we look at your government's projections in the Budget for next year and at those of the international institutions and we see that, in fact, in none of the coming years, we will probably return to such good behavior. How can you be satisfied with the continuing failure of your economic policy? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u101	Secondly, he promised the end of austerity, which he failed in turn. He gave it with one hand, it's true, but he went to take it with the other, or with the two, I'd say so. It is enough to look at the budget implementation data to see that as many taxes as this year have never been collected. I ask the Minister for Finance : objectively, has more money been taken from the taxpayers' and businesses' purse? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u102	It did not remove the huge increase in taxes, did not eliminate the overtax, did not move on the steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and, on the contrary, created new taxes. Just look at the rate of fuel, which, directly or indirectly, falls into everybody's pocket, and even now more increases have been announced in public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u103	That has nothing to do with tax!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u104	He promised more public investment. Well, he's never been as low as this past year. In 2015, public investment increased by 18 %, 5 % ; in 2016, by 16 %. When you say it will now increase 21 %, I ask you if it will not happen the same as this year, in which you promised to increase 11 % and you decreased 16 %. I hope it doesn't happen again. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u105	What is done about the infrastructure programme, the PETI ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure )? Don't even talk. Announcements, ads... Concrete and execution, zero. He promised quality in public services and then in this respect, I think it's a disaster. The effect of their captivating is disastrous.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u107	Today, news about Carcavelos’ school came out — by chance I visited it a few months ago — that it will not open in January because it does not have security conditions. There is news every day about the enormous degradation of health quality in hospital emergencies, to the point of his minister, despite his regret, who publicly confessed that he had no more money for health. So where is the love of the National Health Service? in fact, the Portuguese have paid and will continue to pay with taxes, with degradation of public services the price of their stay in power and the price of their government solution. And more: they're going to pay today and they're going to pay in the future, with a debt that doesn't come down, which, in your perspective, should be at 124%, but that's going to be 130%, and that's getting more expensive. It's also worth asking if they didn't do anything right. I would say that they did some things: they guaranteed the unions trained, well we know at what price, the unions shut down, ignore the users,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u108	Salareant speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u109	... they have ensured political stability, which I have never doubted, because whoever comes to power does everything to maintain it. [[PCP protests.]] And they make a beautiful propaganda, they make a beautiful propaganda... and in that, Mr. Prime Minister, you are the best! I really think we should hire them when we're ruling.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u110	You should hire for everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u111	I wanted to finish, and I will still have a few minutes to speak again, asking you if you think there is anything of the previous government that is worth preserving, particularly in the reform of work. I also ask you what you're going to do, what resources will guarantee money for schools and health. And finally, I wonder if you can guarantee here, because the explanation is not clear, if the Portuguese aren't all going to be transformed into BSE injuries. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u112	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u113	Madam President, I welcome you and all Members and all Members. CDS-PP members a happy Christmas and a great year of 2017. I sometimes find it difficult to follow the strategic reasoning line of the CDS reflection on the government. I remember that a year ago I criticized us because there was what was meant by "the PS of all time", the PS of spending, which wanted to make the economy grow at the cost of domestic demand and at the cost of public investment. A year has passed, Mrs Deputies censure us because, after all, public investment was not the one that Mrs Deputies did not wish it to be, but which now says she is sorry that it has not been and, even worse, with regard to domestic demand, after all, so much income, so much income, so much income was only, as Mrs Deputies said, to train the unions, but not to improve domestic demand. In that regard, I must tell you two things. Firstly, I do not think it is right for any parliamentary party to refer to unions or any social partner as you repeatedly do. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] I don't know if, when I was a minister, Mrs. Deputy had some trained social partner,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u114	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u115	...but as a government, we do not see the social partners as animals to be taught. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] We see the social partners as what they are, entities that we respect, with whom we dialogue, whether they are unions, they are paternal confederations, taking into account what is the general interest of the country, which is translated into the Government Programme. That's how we do it, and that's how we're going to keep doing it. I can see that the honourable Member has stopped valuing some concerns that so much concerned her a year ago! I have noted, for example, that, in terms of public finances, nothing has been said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u116	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u117	... perhaps because it is already in line with the fact that this deficit has become the lowest of the last 40 years and certainly lower than in the four years in which you were the Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member wants to regain the taxpayer's party status, but you must understand that everyone falls first, but the second one falls only anyone who wants. And as for the taxpayer's party, we've already seen what the CDS is ; more, when the CDS held the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, that's where we saw that the CDS was actually, not the taxpayer's party, but the taxpayer's party of weakness! That was the reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But in a year when the tax burden is low, in which we are going to reduce the tax burden again in 2017, does the honourable Member talk about taxes? Oh, my God! I know that the honourable Member would prefer that, instead of raising some special taxes on consumption, that only some pay or that only affect certain goods, we would continue to do as you did in your Government, i.e. to increase the indirect tax that everyone pays, which is VAT (tax on value added) irrespective of who it is and what it buys. I know I'd rather everyone pay for just a few! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u118	You are the ones who have increased VAT!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u119	Well, I know I'd prefer that, instead of taxing the luxury heritage, we continue to increase the tax burden on work! I know that was your preference. But, Madam Member, you must realize that we are in government to make a policy different from what you did while you were in government and what you would do if you were in government. I must tell you that it is a huge advantage for the country to know that, contrary to what they have said, it is not deprived of what is essential in democracy, which is the possibility to choose and decide which political orientation you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u120	Say who lost the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u121	And the political orientation of this government and of this majority is that which is in our Government Programme and which we will follow. I am talking about a policy that places a lower tax burden on work and a higher tax burden on luxury wealth. These are options. I respect that of the honourable Member, and I hope that you will also respect mine. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u122	Now who will have the word is the trained partner of the PàF (Portugal to the Front)!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u123	The CDS bench still has time. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u124	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to know from time to time that petrol and the IMI relating to the sights and the sun are luxury heritage. You must be very wrong about what you're doing. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let me also tell you, Prime Minister, that you must not have listened to me when I spoke about public finances. I told you two things, but you didn't like it, because you can't answer, you're ashamed. In addition, you did not answer the question I asked you about what is going on in schools. Its policy is that of captivating, it is to blindly cut expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u126	He can't answer! He didn't answer the CDS or the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u127	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u128	When the direction of a school comes to say that it will not open in the second period because it has no security conditions, this is the direct reflection of your blind cuts. Your fiscal policy and the fanaticism of the deficit, which suddenly settled in your government, give this. The consolidation is not done in the right way, it is being done in the possible way, to pay the price of the support of the PCP and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u130	Not only are they captivating, I also gave you examples about education, but I could give you examples about health, about which every day there is news. Mr Prime Minister, I respect the unions very much, but I also know what people who belong to these same unions tell us: « Make noise, because we cannot do it». I know very well what they tell us, at the meetings, you call us: ask us to give them a voice, because you are quiet! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] Trade unions resolve one part but do not resolve the other part, which is part of the quality of services and users. Mr. Prime Minister, when, one day, the CDS can rule without being in an exceptional situation and help rescue the country from the hole in which the Socialist Party put it, then, we can talk differently. Mr. Prime Minister cannot deny that the economy is not as he promised, that public investment is a shame, that public services are unfortunately with a very weak quality, that love for the National Health Service was already and that what we have is more debt and more taxes. Mr. Prime Minister, I also want to give you good parties and wish you a good Christmas. And it would be wrong if you didn't have a special "number" for this moment...! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u131	It will not lead to harm, taking advantage of the Christmas season and doing some policy, which offers you three things. First of all, I offer you a couple of glasses, because I think Mr. Prime Minister sometimes sees things out of focus. I needed to see better, it's not all pink, as you imagine.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u132	This is absolutely ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u133	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u134	I will finish, Madam President. Secondly, I offer you the serum of truth, which is to look carefully at the objective evaluation of the policies of the previous Government. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Don't worry, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I offer Mr Prime Minister a package of the proposals presented by the CDS this year, with so many themes ranging from birth to ageing, public finances, growth, health, education, social security, just to mention a few. I hope it can be an inspiring reading for the new year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u135	To reply, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, also taking advantage of him to greet you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u136	Madam President, Mrs Cristas, I am very grateful to you. I always thought she'd give me an excellent Christmas Mother and I see she wasn't cheating on me. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Member, I thank you for the glasses and the serum because the search for truth is always an incessant work that everyone should inspire us. And in order to be able to see and inspire me, of course, on the good ideas of the CDS — which also has them — the gifts will be very useful and, therefore, I thank you deeply for the three gifts which, generously, had the kindness to bring me. next time, the PSD, in addition to exchanging Mr Pedro Passos Coelho by Mr Luís Montenegro, will also see Mr Luís Montenegro make a little Christmas Father to see if he can compete with you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]] Don't be like that! Mrs. Assumption Cristas is even dressed in orange to please you. Be nice to the honourable Member, please! [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Christian Assumption, I'm sorry I didn't bring you a present, otherwise I would have brought you a rear-viewer so I could see your past. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] If you compared your past with the 2017 Budget, after four years of halting investment in schools, investment in health, investment in social services and all services, as we not only increased public investment by 22 %, as we directed you to where it should be directed. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Are you worried about schools? So are we! But we do not limit ourselves to the common concern, we move from concern to action. And that is why the next budget foresees the start of works in more than 200 schools, schools where the works were paralyzed when you arrived at the government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the diabolization that made the investment in the School Park until they managed to go to Brussels to negotiate a Portugal 2020 framework in which the restrictions on investment in schools are of such order that they are only comparable to the restrictions on investment on highways. And they have even managed to exclude lastmiles to link economic areas to the main hubs of motorways, depriving many authorities of their ability to develop their economic areas by connecting to the main rail network.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u137	Go see the history of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u138	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u139	I shall conclude, Madam President, by telling Mrs Cristian Assumption that I will send you, until King's Day, the Rearviewer to be able to reflect well on the past so as to speak more prudently about the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u140	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u141	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u142	Madam President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u143	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u144	Mr President, during this and other debates, it has often been that our bench asks Mr. Prime Minister questions so that he can clarify the country. Of course, there has been an exchange of words in the heat of the debate. In fact, Parliament's parts are part of this House. however, what is not considered fair or appropriate is the circumstance of, permanently, Mr. Prime Minister, when he is responding to other benches, making graffiti with our bench. It's very tasteful. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE laughter.]] We would like to recommend to the Prime Minister that you use the time available to answer the questions that this bench asks you, although it has not revealed any ability or knowledge to answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u145	Mr Marco António Costa. But, as you know, who is in the use of the word is responsible for the statements he makes and the way he uses his time. Clearly, that is not why the time is available for the government to respond, but it is the personal and political responsibility of the Prime Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u146	Table doesn't control humors!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u147	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u148	Mr President, Prime Minister, at the beginning of the new year, the issue of inequality and poverty is central and is a challenge for any political force and for any government that has enough sensitivity on these issues to realize that it is necessary to go to the causes and causes of that same inequality and poverty. A study published by Eurostat 10 days ago shows that the main reason for a lot of inequality and poverty in our country is the huge and growing size of those who earn low wages and then reflect on the low reforms and pensions. In the European Union we have the record of the concentration of low-wage workers, including those who take up the national minimum wage. It also confirms the overall report of ILO ( International Labour Organization) that Portugal is the seventh country in 133, where the income of companies for the highest wages fell in 2010 and 2015. Let's get out of here, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, of this element that demonstrates your responsibilities for impoverishment in Portugal! [[PCP applause.]] If you want to combat, in fact, inequalities and poverty, this reality calls for strengthening the national minimum wage with an extraordinary increase to 600 € in 2017, as you have come to defend. Mr Prime Minister, those who resist an extraordinary update of the national minimum wage use an argument that is not plausible, that is the competitiveness of companies — it is the argument of custom! — even if it is known that the so-called staff costs are around 20 % of the production costs of a company, as referred to in the INE. But there is an unmistakable question: who decides to update the national minimum wage is the government. No conciliation agreement shall replace the Government's decision-making power. As someone has said, it is the government that decides to listen to the Social Concertation Council and not the Social Concertation Council that decides to hear the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u150	We therefore wish to express our deep disagreement with the criteria, deadlines and amounts of the national minimum wage that are proposed. Lowering the single social rate of companies for social security means putting the State, not the companies, to pay part of the increase in the national minimum wage. Yes, we support incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of access to credit and in relation to the costs of production factors, but not in relation to the drop in the single social rate. You know, Prime Minister, what you are proposing is an incentive for companies to increasingly use the national minimum wage rather than the value of wages. A six-monthly evaluation system was proposed, conditioning its development in accordance with the competitiveness of companies. in the recent past, this criterion has always led to the devaluation of the minimum wage and even its freezing. Another disturbing prospect is to maintain the expiry of collective bargaining. It will tell me that in the next 18 months there will be no contract expired. Why 18 months, Prime Minister? Is this a suspended penalty? It's a bad way, a bad option for which we feel some danger. And listening to the right here today, listening to the PSD and the CDS, we realized that the central concern they had in this debate was to know what the government is going to do about labour legislation. That is, the PSD and the CDS, faithful to their class nature, want to continue the work of destroying the legal-laboral building.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u151	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u152	The question is what the government wants, because, honor is done, the PSD and the CDS know what they want. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u153	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u154	Madam President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you and the Members of Parliament and the members of the Portuguese Communist Party wish a good Christmas and an excellent year 2017. I would like to accompany the honourable Member on the priority of combating inequalities, which must be done in the various causes. We have to do something to combat inequalities and poverty among the elderly, which has increased every year during the previous government, we have to give priority to combating child poverty, combat, that which has also increased through measures such as that adopted here, extending up to the three years of age of increased family allowance, now paid exclusively until the first year of age. But there is an absolutely unacceptable reality, which undermines a fundamental value of dignity, in particular the dignity of work, and which is based on the fact that 10 % of the people who have work incomes are below the poverty line. We must eradicate poverty in general, but it is absolutely unacceptable that those who work are below the threshold of poverty. So we have to systematically increase the national minimum wage and we have to increase it substantially above that which is the mere replacement of the purchasing power lost by inflation or by the sharing of productivity gains, because otherwise the update would be only to €540, this year. When we write in the Government Programme that we would propose an increase of €557 to social consultation is because we want the national minimum wage not to be an instrument of social policy, nor simply a means of remuneration; we also want it to be an instrument of combating inequalities and reducing inequalities. It is to this extent that we understand that the effort may have to be shared. It should not always be, but we cannot ignore what is the reality of the economic environment we face and which face many small and medium-sized enterprises, who face many IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity). We have all seen how, in recent days, the third sector, understanding and recognizing the need for the increase of the minimum wage, has also exposed its difficulties in responding to the difficulties it had in this area. That is why we believe that the priority which must be given to the replacement of income cannot be sacrificed. We must give priority to this policy, creating conditions for companies to make an effort to invest and create jobs. in the last four years, we have been back 30 years in business investment. There are many companies that either invest today to renew their own equipment so they can continue to work, or they may not be able to maintain their activity. It is therefore also necessary to take account of the investment effort that these companies have to make over the next few years. There must therefore be a joint effort to create new companies, to modernise existing companies, to create jobs, to increase incomes and perhaps to increase government revenue, resulting from this increase in incomes. However, there is something that we will not sacrifice, we will not be able to sacrifice: the reduction of inequalities due to the increase in the national minimum wage. I would like to be with you to say or, on the other hand, I can say that it should be faster, but we believe that objectively there are no conditions for being faster than what we have foreseen in the Government Programme. But one thing I assure you: we will comply with the Government's income replacement programme, as we have done this year and how we will continue to do over the next few years. If there are conditions for speeding up, we will speed up, but we will not accelerate without having the security of good conditions to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u155	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u156	I am sorry, Madam President, but I would like to mention a second question concerning collective bargaining. In order for income policy to continue, it is not enough to look at the national minimum wage, it is essential to unlock collective bargaining. And after the collective contract has been frozen for many years, expiry has taken another form of freezing. The country needs more social dialogue at the level of companies, at the level of the sectors of activity, at the level of social dialogue. The appreciation of this social dialogue at company level has given extraordinary answers, for example in Autoeuropa. Collective bargaining has allowed many sectors, even the most traditional, to have minimum wages today above 600 €. The possibility of social consultation can go further is essential and we must do so. That is why, in the proposal we have tabled, we have foreseen a guarantee that there will be no new expirys, creating space and time for collective bargaining to work and result. It is not a suspended penalty, it is an incentive for everyone to sit at the table, negotiate and find ways to unlock collective bargaining. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u157	Since the PCP bench still has time, you have the floor, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u158	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I thank and reward you and your Government for the Good Holidays. Although the Prime Minister does not have time to answer, I would like to ask two questions that are very topical. One of the questions concerns the unacceptable situation in the TTCs and postal public service. The PCP has been drawing attention to this problem, which is inferring populations, users and postal workers. over the years have closed hundreds of stations and posts of the CTT and now are the distribution and delivery of mail that are in a level of degradation as never seen: letters and orders that remain days, or, even weeks, yarn in distribution centers waiting to be delivered; postal vouchers, retirement pensions that arrive with delays of 10 to 15 days, or more; hundreds of situations in which the distribution of mail is subcontracted to privates or, then, carried out by wallets that work beyond their working days; endless queues of waiting at stations where CTT workers are placed in other areas of service. The situation is unsustainable. It is the state to which the company arrived, the result of the privatisation imposed by the PSD Government and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u160	We have warned of the consequences of this option: a public service vital to the population, for territorial cohesion, for the economy, for sovereignty transformed into a maximum profit business for the economic groups. The year has not yet come to an end and the profits of four years already amount to more than EUR 250 million. That's why you're serving this whole sacrifice! There we have Christmas at the door and, as always happens, many will be those who count on mail to send a message, sometimes few words, but which mean a lot to an elderly single or to a family. Until that was removed to the Portuguese. This cannot continue, Prime Minister. Given that it is a public service, what does the Government consider it important to do in order to avoid this situation? With the tolerance of Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u161	Tolerance was given to all benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u162	... also mentioned that we brought the problem of hospital emergencies to the plenary during the last debate. Concerns about the possibility of repeating situations of chaos in the same emergencies as in recent years remain. We have said that a first step would be to remove a significant part of hundreds of thousands of users — more than 2 million — who resort to emergencies and who could and should be treated in primary health care units. In addition to waiting times—in many cases far above the safety levels for patients—there is another problem which results from the fact that more than 900 beds have been closed in recent years. As the reality shows, these beds need, particularly in this period, to avoid that degrading spectacle of being found dozens of monkeys and beds spread by the corridors, because there is no ability to enter. The difficulties in forming emergency teams are also known not only because of the lack of professionals, but also because a set of conditions is put in place which result from the cutting of rights and royalties carried out by the previous government. We know there is a Regional Contingency Plan for Extreme Adverse Temperatures for 2016 / 2017. But, knowing the alerts of some organizations due to recent situations, I ask: now that two weeks have passed, what measures has the government taken to avoid situations of chaos? What measures were taken in terms of strengthening primary care, training of teams, opening of beds, articulation between the Health Line 24 and health services, and finally at the level of articulation between public health units?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u163	Mr President, it has already exceeded three minutes in relation to the time you had at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u164	Madam President, I thank you for your tolerance and, because it is Christmas, I wish you good holidays. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u165	Thank you, Mr. Deputies. Questions remain for the PCP bench, since Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to answer. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia on behalf of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u166	Mr President, Prime Minister, the increase of the national minimum wage to the 600 € already from 1 January 2017 would be of the most elementary justice. If we take into account factors such as inflation, productivity or even old social agreement agreements, we know that if all this were respected in the update of the national minimum wage, we would be agreeing to much higher than 600 € from 1 January 2017. The increase in national minimum wage is very important, since this is a fairer payment for workers' work, since our national minimum wage is absolutely unrealistic. On the other hand — and Mr Prime Minister has already mentioned it — by reducing inequalities, but also because these people have the right to contribute to what we all want: the dynamisation of the economy. This to say what? That everyone in the country is earning with the increase of the national minimum wage, including companies. But it goes from there, the government gives a currency of exchange or proposes a currency of exchange. See: for a value even below 600 €, it gives a counterpart to companies, which is the reduction of TSU ( single social rate ). in this sense, what the government is doing, in our view, is encouraging companies themselves to hire the national minimum wage and, on the other hand, to make all other Portuguese compensating for this counterpart. It happens, Prime Minister, that the Greens are having a serious problem. It is because in the agreement that we have made called the joint position, we are committed that there would be no reduction in TSU for companies. More: we are committed to reassessing the exemptions and reductions of the TSU, which have become a rule of exception. So, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u167	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u168	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I begin by wishing you and your colleague a Good Christmas and a Good New Year. Madam Member, we have an extended debate in the social dialogue on different subjects: the Green Paper on Labour Relations, the programme to combat precariousness, which we will present, and in particular on income, updating the national minimum wage. We want and wish to make a comprehensive review of the tax triangle, financing social security and income policy. This triangle should be the subject of a global agreement and it was important that there should also be a medium-term agreement involving all the social partners around these different dimensions. I draw attention to the fact that incentives through the single social rate for job creation have existed for a long time. The proposal which has been put forward — and we will soon see whether or not it is accepted and whether it is implemented — is lacking in many other incentives for job creation. And we have significantly corrected throughout this year the position that was adopted on active employment policies, in particular to stop being an instrument to subsidize precariousness and become what they should be, which were effective support for stable and quality job creation. And we have succeeded in these policies, because today we have more than 128 000 jobs than we had one year ago, the unemployment rate has fallen and the active population has increased. Therefore, this line must have continuity. We have one year of the legislature, we have three more ahead, we still have a long way to go, this path has to be pursued and, if there is an essential component in this way, it is to ensure that all those who work are going to have a decent and fair remuneration. Therefore, in the Government Programme, we have set a path of recovery of the national minimum wage which does not merely recover the purchasing power lost each year due to inflation or productivity gains. We went above that in 2016, we go above that in 2017, in 2018 and surely in 2019. This is the path we must continue. However, we cannot ignore the economic reality in which we are, in particular, the economic reality in which many companies are. I register and understand the opposition of the Green Party to this measure, but I point out that, even with this proposal, there is still no agreement and we do not even know if there will be agreement. But as Mr Jerónimo de Sousa said recently, the law is very clear: whoever decides to fix the minimum wage is the Government; we want to do so with a social agreement, but obviously we do not depend on the social agreement to do so. last year, there was and it was better that it had been; if there were this year—and we wish and work for it—, it will be better and we will commit ourselves to it. I hope that today's meeting can be concluded with a medium-term social agreement dealing with the minimum wage, which deals with unlocking collective bargaining, which opens the door to solve the problems of precariousness and creates conditions for improving the creation of quality and dignity jobs. This is what is essential and that is why we must continue to beat. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u169	Mrs. Members, The Greens still have time, although the Government has no time to answer, so you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u170	With some tolerance, please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u171	As you know, it existed in relation to all the seats, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u172	Of course, Madam President. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I pay the votes of Happy Holidays and I realize that the Government is aware that whoever decides on the national minimum wage is the Government. The reduction of TSU as a counterpart is not a mechanism for job creation, it is a mechanism for financing employers and making them contract and pay no more than the national minimum wage. It is important for the government to have that conscience. Now, Prime Minister, I will ask you, when you get out of this debate, to look into the wording of the joint position signed between the Greens and the PS, so that we can continue to talk later. There is another issue, Mr Prime Minister, which I would like to bring to this debate and which concerns the Greens with regard to the increase in the price of collective transport securities. We are working here to encourage the use of collective transport, but collective transport, the result of the prosperity that the PSD and CDS have given in recent years, has dramatically increased. Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, and they continue to increase! It was not the proposals presented by the Greens at the level of the State budget, namely the reduction by 25 % of the price of the pass for young university students and the possibility of families to deduct, within IRS, all the value of VAT, where would we stop? Oh, my God! Mr Prime Minister, The Greens want to contribute to the promotion of the use of collective transport for social reasons and for environmental reasons. We have goals to meet with regard to greenhouse gases and the fight against climate change. And the policies to be pursued must, precisely, be aimed at promoting the use of collective transport and not at finding mechanisms that will stop people from using it. One last word just to say the following: We greet the Government regarding the termination of contracts for oil research and prospecting, including Portfuel and Repsol / Partex, but, Prime Minister, there are other contracts that do not safeguard the country's public interest and, therefore, the Greens will continue to fight for them to be rescind as well, which do not do any harm to the sustainable development of the country. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u173	To put questions, Mr André Silva has the floor on behalf of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u174	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, first of all my compliments to all the members of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing two central issues in national policy in this last fortnight of the year: the decarbonisation of the economy and the attraction of investment to the country. A month ago, in Marrakesh, at COP22, Mr. Prime Minister made a firm commitment to be neutral in terms of greenhouse gas emissions until 2050. All right! With this declared intention, which has succeeded even in supplanting Germany, the NAP assigns the Prime Minister of Portugal to « Gold Ball 2016 », in the championship of environmental rhetoric. Mr Prime Minister, we have no doubt about your political intentions, but you should agree that we need to play with more concrete measures. There was an advance, with the end of some oil concessions in the Algarve. And the rest, Prime Minister? The presentation of a national strategy for organic agriculture was scheduled for October, for which the NAP contributed, but close to Christmas, the Portuguese are still waiting to unveil this present. We have reached with you the partial renewal of the state's car fleet with electric vehicles so that we will soon read that the Government is studying the recovery of the supply of these vehicles. Mr Prime Minister, do we see positive steps and good intentions, but will it be the future decarbonisation plan of the national economy, too, built with progress by half? Oh, my God! This analysis and concern lead us to the theme of sustainable and long-term investment capture. This type of investment is essential to give shape to the intention to decarbonize the Portuguese economy. But once again, Mr. Prime Minister, you have to go to the game. It is essential that the Government can attract the Tesla factory to Portugal. This is an investment with an unprecedented dimension in our country, the creation of thousands of jobs and the geostrategic positioning of Portugal in the supply of climate services. Mr. Prime Minister, wishing you good holidays, I ask you: will we be able to bring the Tesla factory to Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u175	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u176	Madam President, Mr André Silva, votes for you and for the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u177	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u178	I want to tell you this: decarbonization is a priority and it is a priority that is present in the urban rehabilitation bet as a condition for improving energy efficiency. Even today, we have approved a EUR 1, EUR 8 billion programme focused on urban rehabilitation, precisely to improve energy efficiency as well. It is also present in the priority given to public transport either by decentralization in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, or by the strong investment planned for next year, of EUR 120 million in the Metropolitan of Lisbon, in the Caris, in the STCP, in the Metro of Porto and in the Transtejo, in order to respond to the enormous losses accumulated after four years of disinvestment. Renewable energies are again a priority for us. this year, Portugal won a real "goldball" because it has been four consecutive days to consume exclusively renewable energies. this year, for the first time, we will have a positive balance in the export of energy, thanks to the energy that we have produced from renewable energy and the needs of some countries whose energy system is based on nuclear, which currently have paralysed nuclear, at least for review, and which have realized the importance of interconnection with our network. We are committed to extending our interconnection to Morocco too and, therefore, we have signed an agreement with the Government of Morocco this year for energy interconnection. We are still betting on the production of electric cars in Portugal and Tesla is not the only factory, there are other factories. We have not only been committed to attracting foreign investment to Portugal, but also to developing national capacities to produce good electric cars that can serve as an example and model for the internationalisation of our economy. We have already done this on heavy transport vehicles. We also want to do this on light cars. This is why we have created a programme, both in the central administration and in the local administration, for the electrification of fleets of light cars over the next few years. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u179	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and good Christmas and good New Year for you too. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u181	Good holidays, Prime Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the end of the debate with the Prime Minister with a golden key. The next item on our agenda does not have time for debate and concerns motions for resolutions Nos 24 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016, 25 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Principality of Andorra to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in New York on 27 September 2015, 29 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Services between the Portuguese Republic and the United Arab Emirates, signed in Lisbon on 27 July 2015, and 32 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the strengthened Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, signed in Astana on 21 December 2015. Let us now start the period of statutory votes, for which we need to proceed, first and foremost, with the electronic verification of the deliberation quorum. I would therefore ask the services which operate the respective mechanism and the Members of Parliament and the Members of the Commission. Members who have made their registration. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the electronic framework records 220 presences, to which 2 are added ( BE Paulino Ascenção and PS Member of Parliament Helena Roseta ), and 222 Members therefore we have a quorum for discussion to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting No 179/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Laura Ferreira dos Santos ( PAN, PS, BE, The Greens and PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last Friday, day 16, died, victim of cancer, at 57 years of age, Laura Ferreira dos Santos. She was a graduate in Philosophy by the Catholic University and a PhD in Philosophy of Education by the University of Minho where she taught as an associate teacher. Founder of the Right to Die with Dignity movement devoted much of his civic and academic life to reflection, research and intervention on the problems of the end of life. Professor Laura Ferreira dos Santos was, in Portugal, a pioneer of the defense of the decriminalization of euthanasia, within and outside the University, contributing to her discussion in a high, knowledgeable, committed and convinced way, both in social communication, and in society, with important participations in spaces of debate. As a reference to the discussion of this topic, did Laura Ferreira dos Santos write numerous articles of opinion and was she, among other books, author of Help to die? The death assisted in the Western culture of the 21st century, which constituted an irreplaceable reference in the approach and study of assisted death, the most complete and systematic work edited by a Portuguese author on euthanasia and assisted drug suicide, Vital Testament, what is it? How do you elaborate it? He openly defended his ideas, demanding respect for the dignity of the human person, when the intimate and reflected convictions about life and death were at stake, seeking that the State should legislate in order to give them a final opportunity, while respecting the dignity of the people. Known for her dedication, generosity and humanity, Laura Ferreira dos Santos has contributed and will contribute, with her testimony and with her work, to important discussions about respect for dignity, self-determination and human rights. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, marks its death, conveying to its family the greatest sense of regret. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u183	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 183 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation of the attack committed in Berlin ( President of the HR, PS and PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last Monday night, December 19, people who were on the Christmas market at Breitscheid Square in Berlin, next to the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church, were deliberately hit. This barbaric attack, claimed by Daesh, made 12 dead and 48 wounded, 14 of whom were seriously injured. The victims were ordinary people, innocent people, who sought the typical joy of the Christmas court we crossed. Once again, the Assembly of the Republic reaffirms the need to find common and cooperative responses that contribute to curb the phenomenon of terrorism and its causes, affirming the democratic and humanist values that distinguish the model of society in which we want to live. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deepest sympathy to the victims, the families of the victims, Germany and the German people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u185	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 184 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the assassination of the Russian Federation Ambassador to Turkey, Andrey Karlov ( RA President, PSD and PS ), to be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on the afternoon of 19 December, while participating in a cultural event, the Ambassador of the Russian Federation to Turkey, Andrey Karlov, was brutally murdered. In addition to cruel and cowardly actions, this criminal act endangers the security and immunity of the diplomatic corps, whose mission is to ensure dialogue and build understanding between States — the exact opposite of the objectives of terrorism and fanaticism. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its greatest sympathy to the Russian Federation and the Russian people as well as to the family and friends of Ambassador Andrey Karlov. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u187	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just appreciated, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 177 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for 40 years of local democratic power ( PS and PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The year 2016 is under the sign of democracy, freedoms and equality, since we celebrate the 40 years of our Constitution and the first authentic elections in democracy, precisely on December 12, 1976. in this paradigm change, one of the greatest achievements was the democratic legitimacy of the local power. A local power that has gained in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, by law, its autonomy and independence, which has made it an essential pillar of democracy. The local authorities over the last 40 years have been the power that has dared to transform territories, to infrastructure, to develop potentials, to promote social, economic and cultural cohesion, to approach agents and living forces, to preserve identities and to democratize services and their equal access. At the same time, the local authorities, appealing to the participation of the population, have been a true school of citizenship and have accumulated a capital of confidence of the greatest importance for Portuguese democracy. Many are the future-dressed challenges that are placed in local power and that go through the deepening of the constitutional principle of subsidiarity, autonomy and decentralization, because the path of local and regional development is a continuous evolution and permanent demand that is never over. The autarchs of this country have always known to be the power of proximity, effective and speedy response, that is, they have known to be ‘ the power that matters. ’ A power with a ‘human face’, always among the people who represent and who always knew how to feel and hear in permanent dialogue. To celebrate 40 years of the first free and democratic elections is thus a greater date of our democracy and that calls upon us, first of all, to thank and greet all women and men who in the assemblies of the parish, assemblies of the parish, municipal assemblies and municipal chambers have contributed to a more modern, more developed and more democratic Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 178 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Commending all educational agents for the continued improvement of the school results of Portuguese students ( PS ), which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The results of international student evaluation studies, PISA, TIMSS 4 have recently been published. the year and TIMSS Advanced. These results are encouraging for education in Portugal, in the perspective of a long series analysis, which makes sense in educational matters. The data now known show that the background trend is a continuous progression for many years. As one of the studies in question commented, the European Commissioner for Education stated: ‘ Portugal is the only country in the European Union that has continuously improved its performance in PISA since 2000. ’ Or, as the international rapporteurs have summarized: ‘Among the OECD countries, Portugal has improved more than seven points every three years on average. ‘ Being involved in an effort of decades — a collective effort of the school communities and the educational communities where schools are inserted — any temptation of particular appropriation of these results is inadequate. The studies, although they do not consider all curricular areas, show the relevance of the work of the entire educational community in pursuing this huge task of democratizing knowledge, whose possibility was opened by the revolution of 25 April 1974. Public education policies, pursued for decades, were essential in building these results. Here, for example, it is worth stressing the extension of the pre-school; the Action Plan for Mathematics; the National Reading Plan; the wager in Education for Citizenship, in the Design Area, in the Accompanied Study, in the measurement tests; the investment in the school park, the investment in school equipment. All those who have waged in strengthening public school have contributed, in one way or another, to the results that now deserve our congratulations as a national community. These studies, being evaluation instruments, but not student series or selection, are important contributions to the progress of education in Portugal. These results, being encouraging, require that we strengthen our attention to the problems that continue to be solved, often linked to the structural delay in qualifications. An important example of these concerns is the prevalence of too high retention rates. It is therefore important not only to be encouraged by the positive aspects of the studies, but also to be driven to act decisively so that the benefits of educational progress reach everyone. It is important to comply with the recommendations contained in these studies, so that public policies continue to contribute to the determined pursuit of the goal of more and better learning for all generations. The Assembly of the Republic, welcoming the confirmation of the long trend towards improving the quality of education in Portugal, welcomes and encourages the continuation of the good work of all those who over the years have been creating conditions for these results: students, teachers, technicians, operational assistants, families, researchers, policy makers and services at central and local level. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u191	We shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the PSD, the PCP and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 582/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Public participation in the national strategy and the plan of action to combat food waste ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 583/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Food waste diagnosis in Portugal ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 266 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime applicable to the donation of food for the purpose of social solidarity in order to combat hunger and food waste in Portugal ( PAN ). [[The vote was taken and the PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens voted against the PSD, PS, CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 576 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Food Waste Combat Commission, promote the dissemination and replication of the Commissioner's model and the Municipal Plan for Combating the Lisbon Food Waste, with the aim of promoting the creation of a national food waste control network ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 577 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a number of measures aimed at reducing food waste ( CDS-PP ). At the request of various parliamentary groups, we will vote on points 4 and 5 separately. Let us therefore begin by voting on point 4. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We now vote on point 5. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Finally, we shall vote on the remaining points of the draft resolution, i.e. points 1, 2, 3 and 6. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 581 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat food waste ( BE ). At the request of the PS, we shall vote separately on points 4 and 6. Let us therefore begin by voting on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on point 6 shall follow. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We are now voting on the remaining points of the draft resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 575 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the harmonization of the school schedule in pre-school education and basic education ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and PS abstentions.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 580 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Changes in the school schedule of pre-school education ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u192	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u193	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u194	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u195	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 479 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of a national cooperation agreement between the Central Administration of Health Systems IP and the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal for a period of five years in accordance with Article 2 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). Article 3 ( 2 ). Article 8 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Decree-Law No 138 / 2013 of 9 October ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u196	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u197	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u198	Mr President, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the last vote, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u199	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us then proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 359 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the purchase and sale of pet animals ( NAPs ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 7. the Commission. We now vote, also in general, Bill No. 360 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the impossibility of using the Internet to announce the sale of wild animals ( NAPs ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill also drops to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u200	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u201	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u202	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u203	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 579 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Consecrate on 31 May as the Day of the Brothers ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 24 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 25 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Principality of Andorra to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in New York on 27 September 2015. [[When put to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u204	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u205	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u206	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will deliver a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u207	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The overall vote on motion for a resolution 29 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Services between the Portuguese Republic and the United Arab Emirates, signed in Lisbon, on 27 July 2015. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall then proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 32 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the strengthened Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, signed in Astana on 21 December 2015. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 393 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the competences of the parish and the evaluation of the territorial reorganization of the parish ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the NAP, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 551 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extraordinary ECJ course for judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 555 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open in 2017 an extraordinary course of the Centre for Judicial Studies for the formation of 100 new judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u208	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u209	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u210	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u211	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote for Bill No 124 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Data Sharing Legal Scheme ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 151 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the exercise of the rights of users as enshrined in the Code of Copyright and Related Rights ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 12. the Commission. We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 27 / XIII ( 1 ). (a ) — establishes the legal regime for the conduct of tests, medical examinations and other appropriate means for the workers of the Prison Guard Corps with a view to detecting excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages, drug use and psychotropic substances and similar products. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall, in general, vote on the text of substitution presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees in the general speciality and in the overall final vote on the drafts of lein. 164 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by establishing a legal status of animals ( PS ), 171 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Civil Code, recognizing animals as sensitive beings ( NAPs ), 224 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter the Legal Statute for Animals in the Civil Code ( PSD ) and 227 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by assigning a legal status to animals ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation, with Members of the PS and BE and the PAN applauded standing.]] We will generally vote on the draft lein.o 173 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthens the animal sanctions regime ( amends the Penal Code ) ( PAN ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, the PAN and 9 PS (André Pinotes Batista, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Diogo León, Joaquim Raposo, Luís Graça, Odete João, Pedro Delgado Alves and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and abstentions from PS and The Greens.]] Voting in the speciality and overall end of this bill is thus detrimental. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 209 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amended thirty-seventh to the Criminal Code by revising the system of penalties applicable to pet animals ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP and with votes in favour of the PS, BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] Voting in the speciality and overall end of this bill is thus detrimental. We shall now vote in general on Bill No. 228 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review the sanctions regime applicable to crimes against animals ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and 9 PS (André Pinotes Batista, Vasconcelos Bachelor, Carla Sousa, Diogo León, Joaquim Raposo, Luís Graza, Odete João, Pedro Delgado Alves and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and the abstention of PS.]] The votes, in the speciality and overall final, of this bill are thus impaired. We will generally vote for the Lein.o 245 / XIII project ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by exempting from the complaint the crime of violation of the obligation of food and aggravating its penalties ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] The votes, in the speciality and overall final, of this bill are thus impaired. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 246 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by creating the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of a food obligation ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] The votes, in the speciality and overall final, of this bill are thus impaired. We are going to vote, in general, on lein.o 231 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establish the regime for the replacement of strawberries ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE, The Greens and PS Member Norberto Patinho and abstentions from the PAN and PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Voting in the speciality and overall end of this bill is thus detrimental.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u212	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u213	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u214	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group intends to present an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u215	Madam Member, at the end of the vote on the Rules of Procedure we shall proceed to this exercise. We will move on to the general vote on Bill No 272 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the extraordinary process of restoration of ferries extinct by Law No 11 -A / 2013 of 28 January ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the NAP and the Members of PS Pedro do Carmo and Norberto Patinho.]] Voting in the speciality and overall end of this bill is thus detrimental.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u216	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u217	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u218	Mr President, it is in order to request, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the possibility to present an oral vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u219	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. It will be done at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u221	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u222	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u223	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote will be taken at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u224	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u225	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u226	Mr President, it is also to announce that I shall present in writing a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u227	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u228	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u229	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u230	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party will also make an oral vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u231	Of course, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u232	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u233	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u234	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u235	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on the opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to give these opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request in Office No 176 / SE / 2016, concerning Case No 1276 / 15.4T9LRA of the Central Office of the District of Leiria Criminal Section J3, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José António Silva ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u237	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request in Case No 177 / SE / 2016 concerning Case No 1620 / 15.4T8 PDL of the Central Court of the 1st Cable and Criminal Section J2 of the Comarca de Ponta Delgada, Azores, the Subcommittee on Ethics of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Mariana Mortagua ( BE ) to provide written testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, and in accordance with the request in Case No 178 / SE / 2016, concerning Case No 1231 / 15.4T8 PDL of the Central Court of the 1st Cable and Criminal Section J2 of the Comarca de Ponta Delgada, Azores, the Subcommittee on Ethics of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Mariana Mortagua ( BE ) to provide written testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u241	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] To make a statement of vote on the vote on Bill 231 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes the regime for the replacement of strawberries of the CFP, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, in the Assembly of the Republic, we have lost the opportunity to solve a very meaningful problem for the people of the north and south of our country, the problem of the replacement of the parish. PS, PSD and CDS prevented this claim, this aspiration of the populations and of the autorcas of hundreds and hundreds of Frequencies in the country from seeing today the light of the day and being realized here in the Assembly of the Republic. The reality has shown that the extinction of freguesis has led to the impoverishment of the democratic regime: they have lost - they have been elected, they have lost proximity, the ability to solve the problems of the populations has been reduced, the demand capacity of the populations has been reduced, the cultural and local identity has been lost. The PS, the PSD and the CDS are now responsible for defrauding the expectations of the populations and the autarchs who have been fighting and intervening in the replacement of their frequencies. There was a great expectation of this replacement, taking into account the amendment of the composition of the Assembly of the Republic. The Assembly of the Republic is not diminished in its powers and the creation of fregueries is a competence of its own. We therefore do not follow any delay in this matter. There is no reason why a significant step could not have been taken today and to restore the parish in accordance with the will of the peoples and the local authorities in the time of the forthcoming elections. We welcome the struggle of the populations, we greet the autoarchs and the local organs, which, throughout this period, have not lowered their arms and continued to defend their parishioners. We also welcome all those present who were attending the debate and who once again marked their position on this matter, claiming and not lowering their arms in this just struggle for the replacement of the parish. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u243	Mrs Deputy, you have already exceeded your regimental time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u244	In conclusion, Mr President, we reaffirm here that the CFP will continue to intervene and fight for the replacement of the parish according to the will of the people, in the time of the forthcoming autarchic elections. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u245	To give a statement of vote, Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you know, the Left Block has always vehemently opposed the famous law of Miguel Relvas, which has extinguished more than 1000 parishioners at national level. The extinction of these fregueses, imposed the rule and framework, to the awakening of autoarchs and populations, the pretext of the Memorandum of Troika, was an authentic fraud, because the Memorandum did not anticipate the extinction of fregueses. It was an ideological option and it was a very strong attack on local democratic power, which this year commemorates four decades of existence. This attack impoverished the democratic regime, impoverished democracy and, in particular, the weakest populations, the interior populations and the populations of the countryside. We welcome the inclusion in the Government's Programme of Restoration of the former Frequencies, which will happen if this is the will of the local authorities. We proposed again, like the past, a bill which included the local referendum if that was the will of the populations. And this project, such as PCP and PS projects, went down to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralization, Local Power and Housing to get out of there a common text. Unfortunately, that was not possible. It was also constituted a working group and one of its high points was the hearing, on 5 December, in the Assembly of the Republic, of more than 300 authorships, which mostly rejected the existence of the previous law and which, like the populations and the Left Block, had the expectation that the replacement of the fragesias already had effect in the forthcoming elections. The Left Block regrets and rejects the withdrawal of both the Socialist Party and the Government in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u247	Mr President, the time has already exceeded to give the vote. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u248	The populations and the autarchs can always rely on the opposition of the Left Block as regards the extinction of fragesias. The opportunity was lost, effectively created here, that, in the upcoming elections, the parish is already restored according to the current law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u249	To give a statement of vote on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Lima e Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u250	Mr. President: The proposed laws of the PCP and Block now rejected have at least the virtue of bringing down the mask of the hypocrisy of the PS. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u251	The PS has been smilingly promising everyone dissatisfied with the reform of the parish that, in any future, everything would be reversed. However, now he knows very well the numerous situations of aggregation of freguesis that at the time were the object of challenge but that today, because the time elapsed in the meantime allowed to undo misconceptions, if it is considered to serve the populations better. It is true to apply the maximum old PS: the PS can fool all extinct frequencies for some time, it can even cheat some extinct frequencies all the time, but it cannot cheat all extinct frequencies all the time. [[All right!]] [[Protests of BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u252	Therefore, today it is clear that the PS, in everything it can cause to lose votes, whistles to the side and push forward. on the contrary, the PSD justifies its vote not by electoral calculus, but because it assumes its reformist genetics in the profound conviction that all reforms can momentarily displease some, but at the end of the accounts—as we saw in education, for example—the results appear and the Country progresses. PSD is a reformist, non-fundamentalist party,... [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u253	... and therefore, as it has always been planned, we keep ourselves available in a stable legal framework, and after a proper assessment, to make some adjustments that may eventually result from a reform of this scale. It is the position of those who recognize the importance of local power, of those who take pride in the work done in local power over the past 40 years, and in this regard we receive no lessons from anyone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u254	Your intervention will be very useful in the district of Évora!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u255	Also for a statement of vote on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the defence of the autonomy and consolidation of local authorities, the Socialist Party defined in its electoral programme and in the Government programme the need to assess the extinction of fregueses that the PSD and the CDS advocated in 2013. The Members of this Parliamentary Group voted against the drafts of lein. 231 and 272 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) because they believe that the territorial reorganization of the parish must be duly reassessed after the 2017 electoral act, on the basis of objective criteria that allow local authorities to measure the results of the last four years and correct the poorly solved cases on the basis of a new legal framework to be approved in the follow-up to the joint work currently being carried out between the Government, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and ANAFRE. Correcting the errors of the removal process is a compromise that we will fulfill. It is essential that populations evaluate the outcome of a mandate under reality so that the same errors and precipitations of the former PSD/CDS Government are not made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u257	Yeah, well... okay, okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u258	It is with this democratic spirit that we are working, in an integrated logic, with dialogue, in a serene, thoughtful manner, with a strategic and prospective vision, where a framework law is prepared that will enable us to develop the constitutional principle of local autonomy as an instrument of decentralization of the State, promoting the proximity and efficiency of the services provided. This is the Socialist Party's commitment to local power. at the same time, as expected, the process will be accompanied by the strengthening of competences now proper to the parish and other differentiated according to its size and nature, advancing with a renewed ambition in administrative decentralization as a key element of a state reform, which will be crucial to the deepening of the principle of subsidiarity, the constitutional autonomy of local authorities and always of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u259	To give a statement of vote, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we have discussed here, or, better, what we have voted on today has not been a specific case of one, two or more certain frequencies. In fact, it was not even the merit of this or that specific and determined case, it was generic projects that, as well as the explanations of vote we have already heard, were created as an adjustment of accounts between management and not properly as a way to solve concrete problems of the population. [[PCP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there were any real will of the parties that now support the government to carry out a reversal of this reform, it would be ending today and we would not be discussing its start today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u261	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u262	And so this was the day that the mask fell,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u263	The theater's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u264	... because we talk about very different things when we talk about the correction of mistakes, and even the merit of some cases, and when we talk about the reversal of this reform. The projects that were discussed today would start a reversal of the reform which, if it were now, as planned, would hardly end after 10 months and before the new elections. And from this point of view, it seems to us that these types of processes and projects are not those that must be done during the electoral act, they must be done in a timely manner, in time to discuss what is of the best interest of the people and not discuss a hunt for vote more or less deputated. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u265	So cynical, so hypocritical!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-22.u266	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore finish today's agenda. I will announce tomorrow's agenda, beginning at 10 a.m. of the first point is the assessment of petition No 540 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Presented by Helena Pinto and others, requesting that those responsible for the practice / tradition « cat burning» be punished and that the tradition be abolished, in general, with Bill No. 361 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, expressly prohibiting practices that are seriously harmful to the physical integrity of animals, such as "cat burning" and shooting at the flight of captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as target (NAP). of the second point is the debate of petition No 106 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Presented by the Platform for Defence of Public Water Services, Sanitation and Waste Management, in defense of those public services, together with draft resolution No 584 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Guarantees the right to water and sanitation ( The Greens) and generally with the projects of lein.o 358 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection of individual and common water rights ( PCP ) and 335 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection of individual rights ( establishes the fundamental right to water and sanitation and provisions for the protection of that right, as well as the right to water as an environment and the rights common to water and public property of water as a resource and its management in the collective interest, hierarchic use of water and preventing the privatization and marketing of water services, public infrastructure and the water public domain) ( BE). The third point follows the assessment of petition No 23 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Submitted by Ana Cristina de Brito Leal and others, requesting measures for the preservation of the Formosa River and the suspension of demolition. At the fourth point, we will appreciate petition No 114 / XIII ( 1. (a) — Submitted by Antonio José Salgado Rosa Negrão and others, requesting that all citizens have the same social dignity and be equal before the law as regards education. Finally, petition No 118 / XIII ( 1 ) will be appreciated. a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers - FENPROF, in defense of public school, together with draft resolution No 578 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Defence and valorisation of public school ( CFP ). Follow-up to the plenary session will be given the Human Rights Award ceremony to Eng.António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 2 minutes.]]
