ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries. I begin by greeting everyone, sending very warm vows of an excellent year of 2016 to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials and the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of the Duarte Pacheco Bureau to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein. 86 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the impermissibility and impossibility of execution of the mortgage of the housing property itself and permanently due to tax debts ( amends the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October ) ( BE) ( 87 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Protects the household under tax enforcement procedures ( PS ) ; 88 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes a system of impermenability of the housing itself and permanent, setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages ( PCP ) ; and 89 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspends the penhoras and sales of own and permanent housing in tax enforcement processes and determines the application of a regime for impermissibility of such buildings ( CFP ). Draft resolutions 58 / XIII ( 1 ) were also presented. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the identification of the consequences of cuts in the National Health Service ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 59 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of measures to defend national milk production ( CFP ) ; 60 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Construction of an elderly home in the parish of Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra, Setúbal district ( PCP ) ; 61 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By a public school that covers the needs of the entire population ( PCP ) ; 62 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspension of curricular goals and opening a debate process for the definition of objectives for a real and deep curriculum reform ( PCP ) ; 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the agreement with the Holy See for the restitution of religious holidays ( The Greens ) ; and 64 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Lifting requirements in the SNS and urgent intervention in services with serious failures or potentially broken ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission. As far as the dossier is concerned, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The first item on today's agenda is political statements. You have the floor, therefore, for a political statement, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to address all votes in a good year of 2016, also fulfilling the votes that have put us here for the best work that we can do. as far as education is concerned, and contrary to Mr. Prime Minister's message, the new year does not bring new life, it first rests the popular gastronomic tradition of putting on the table « old clothes ». [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] We ended the year 2015 ending the national tests of the 4. the year in a tabulated form, not discussed and without an alternative proposal prepared. We started 2016 apparently extinguishing the national evidence of 6. the year, again the tow of the ideological initiatives of the parties to the left of the PS, and contrary to what Mr. Prime Minister said here in the first fortnight debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We ended the year with a missing Minister of Education and we started the year with an unauthorized Minister of Education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u5	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the ideological trailer is not left for the exams. on Friday, the left-most parties that support this government present, in plenary, two draft resolutions aimed at the end of schools with an association contract. The proposal is not part of a rational vision or a weighted analysis of the impacts on the education system; part of the assumption, wrong, that the improvement of the state public school is against non-State schools that provide public education service to the same families and under the same conditions. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is purely ideological action, either by the Left Block or by the PCP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u6	What about the PS? There is no line in this direction in the Government Programme. But, over time, your position can be revisited, in the words of several of your ministers of education. Guilherme d’ Oliveira Martins said: « New forms of association and complementarity must be found between state and non-state schools», so that, with « strict criteria », better use of resources is allowed. (...) The freedom to learn and teach requires that the State does not have the monopoly of the public education service». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u7	Júlio Pedrosa said: «I do not have an experience that aligns with the negative speech that permeates public discourses about education since these positions forget the historical path and devalue the developments that have been made». Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues said: "It is very gratifying to see that there are schools that are proud to be schools in the exact place where they are providing the public education service" — said John Alberto Faria, a school with an association contract, adding that he should continue "to carry out the task of qualifying the populations, young people, adolescents and children" of that authority. Marçal Grilo said: « The model is no model(...). If in an area there is a public school and a private one, if the private has better evaluation, I shall close the public and leave the private one". [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u8	In fact, association contracts are a private sector response that arises from a need for the public network. Today, about 150 000 students — 11 % of the students in the system — represent 2 % of the budget of the Ministry of Education (if we include the sponsorship contracts of artistic education which the CFP also intends to see extinct) employ about 20 000 teachers and non-teachers, have high effectiveness in terms of results in national examinations and have an average cost, per student, of about 400 € lower than in public school. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to extinguish all forms of support for families who do not attend state public schools means to question the educational course freely chosen by 150 000 students, to question the employment of 20,000 people and to close the current specialized schools with a sponsorship contract, i.e. the schools and the jobs of artistic education will be extinct. For the CDS it is clear that this path must be prevented. The question remains: what can we expect from the Socialist Government? Will it be consistent with your past positions or will it once again give in to the agenda of extreme-left parties? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u9	To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u10	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I do not understand whether this recent CDS obsession with education... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... resulting from the separation of themes that now emerged from the recent divorce with the PSD and therefore in the separation of goods the education, as an ideological reduction, to the CDS, or if it is, yes, a mourning for the legacy of Nuno Crato, a mourning for the selectivity and punishment of dual education, a mourning for the obsession and facilitation of the close evaluation of the exams, a struggle for permanent picardia with the teachers and with the dignity of the teaching career, a mourning for the end of the drama of special education or for the end of the tragedy of artistic education. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] The freedom of choice which the CDS so much appreciates, when it is financed by the State, when it is supported by the State, that is, when it is paid by the taxpayers, is not about freedom of choice, but about putting taxpayers to finance private education. [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]] [[PSD protests.]] Those who really have to choose must be able to choose a quality public education, a demanding public education. This must be the choice that must be in the hands and hands of the parents and students of this country. What the right has done was take this freedom away from people, taking them away from being able to attend an equal education for all, public, demanding, because the financial strangulation they have made...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u11	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u12	I said that the financial strangulation that they made to public education was done precisely to force the choice by private education, that is, financed by the State. So what I wanted to ask is whether your freedom of choice is actually not a way to finance private education, to create a first and second school. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And it's not worth bringing art education here to the sound, because it was the right government that attacked art education the most. Neither artistic education nor students nor teachers of artistic education believe in these words on the right, which now defends the artistic teaching that has so far only been able to attack. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u13	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u14	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, said that this Government, on a proposal from the CFP and the Left Block, wants to end the examinations. Our position has already been marked: we consider exams useless, they are, yes, laxists,... [[Representatives of PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] ...as they pass or reproach students. It's not the exams that will teach or evaluate nothing or anyone! [[All right!]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u15	These tests only serve to devalue the role of teachers, because they evaluate, in each period and for a year, their students, they know them and they can give a more knowledgeable opinion about each of the students. [[PSD protests.]] Regarding the role of the public and private, the PCP considers that the PSD and CDS have emptied public school, transferring funding to private schools, which has to do with the closure of classes in public schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u17	... where exactly the same classes are transferred with these courses for private education. [[Exactly!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u18	I also wanted to say that the CFP does not want to end association contracts. The CFP wants to regulate these association contracts and ensure that funding is constant, in order to bring stability to schools, for example artistic education. I also wanted to say that the PCP defends that there are contracts...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u19	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u20	I shall now finish, Mr President, by saying that the CFP maintains that there are contracts when there is no public offer that can cover this void.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u22	Finally, I would like to say that the initiatives proposed by the CFP are to solve problems that the PSD and the CDS have created and have even worsened! The PCP defends a quality public school for everyone. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u23	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u24	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I am aware that you also have a new obsession with the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u26	I assume that it has to do with the subject of education and nothing else! [[CDS-PP applause.]] I would just like to ask you, for the sake of the discussion, not to confuse things that I know are clear to you, namely that the state school is all paid by the taxpayers, whether it is state school with association contracts, whether it is public state school, which is different from private school. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] We are not dealing with this reality here, we are dealing with comparable realities that serve identical audiences, that do not pay to attend school and that, in this sense, they fully compete. With regard to Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira's comment, I would like to leave two notes. One has to do with what he said about the transfer of classes from public education to private. I would like to remind you once again that, as we have said several times in this House, in the period 2004 to 2014, there was a reduction of the money transferred to private and cooperative education by about 30 % while in state education this reduction was about 18 %. There was a reduction in the number of classes, there was a reduction in the number of schools with association contracts, so what you simply say is not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u28	With regard to your own draft resolution which will be under discussion next Friday, I ask you to read it more carefully, since in point 4 it calls on the Government to « draw up a plan for the creation or improvement of the public network in 2016 to gradually reduce and terminate current sponsorship contracts ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u29	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u30	That's right! Create public offer to end private financing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u31	Therefore, I do not think that this is compatible with the defense of what exists today on the ground, but, yes, it means the end of contracts and schools that have rightly suffered in recent times. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u32	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, would like to welcome your political statement because in the PSD Parliamentary Group we are also concerned about the matter you have dealt with. Mrs. Member, there is no father, teacher or student who is not with his heart in his hands today. [[Rice from MP PCP Rita Rat.]] They wrote that they were going to reassess the basic education exams and eliminated us without hearing anyone, without dialogue, under communist command. Now, after all, it looks like there's going to be a measurement test, but we still don't know very well what terms we're in! Maybe they'll finish the 6th exams. it's 9. the years, but they still don't know how well! They're going to end the school contract, but they don't know how they're gonna replace it, even when! But, worse, much worse, it seems there are teachers of 1. a and teachers of 2. a! They are in favour of job creation, but they want to fire 20,000 teachers and employees, and they propose this in the projects they will bring on Friday! They strike for artistic education, but they want to end sponsorship contracts and thus end artistic education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u34	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u35	It doesn't count anymore! They want to combat precariousness, poverty and end contracts that defend the most disadvantaged and deprived families. So now you don't care? Oh, my God! What about stability? Where is the value of stability? Oh, my God! And how much does this reversal cost? When does this drift cost the country, this revolutionary situationism? I'm even scared, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let the Minister of Education be surprised!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u36	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u37	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. It is only that, Mrs Deputy, a minister with communist command or FENPROF command may even have a whim, because it is a revolution, not a peaceful revolution, but a hecatomb! It's really the dismantling of the public school. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from PS and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u38	Finally, to clarify Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, once again the theme of education has been addressed. Obviously, for us and for the Socialist Party, this is an issue that always leaves us at ease, because if there is a party that has a proper agenda for education, which has a clear view of defending public school and knowledge is the Socialist Party, it has always been the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the Socialist Party this was always very clear throughout its successive governments. And I am glad to recall here excellent Ministers of Education, who left a positive mark on education success, combating school dropout, inclusion and a public school for all, such as Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues and Guilherme d’Oliveira Martins. And there are also unsuspecting instances, such as the OECD, such as the PISA, such as the National Council of Education, to confirm the qualitative and civilizational leap that occurred in all these indices. With the Socialist Party education has always advanced towards very close to European goals. Therefore, yes, Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa, although she spoke of these distinguished socialists, because in the PS we are very proud of our historical heritage and those who have ruled well for education and knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Without education, without knowledge there is no competitiveness, there is no cohesion, there is no social justice. And we know that Portugal only advances if it has a strong public school, a consistent school, a school that is not a distant island, a school where teachers, students, non-teachers and parents can continue to affirm this defense of public school, which, unfortunately, has been dismantled in the last four and a half years, has been subject to successive disinvestment. That, yes, is the "old clothes" that we do not want to dress again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u40	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u41	Just to finish, I meant that for the PS, the school center is not the exam, the school center is the learning, the continuous evaluation, the ability to do. I would also like to say that the PS now has a new Minister of Education, a new government team that is attentive, who visited a complex school and who clearly told what was coming. This week we will also have a very clear programme on learning and measuring. And our vision is not a vision is not an easy view.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u42	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u43	Mr. President, I appreciate your generosity. Our vision is of the future, it is a vision that defends a public school in which the PS will not tow anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u44	Even with generosity, you have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u45	The PS has its own agenda and in the coming days they will understand very clearly the position of the PS, the PS government and this bench with regard to public school and the advancement of Portugal, which is done only by knowledge, with « new clothes » and not « old clothes ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u46	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u47	Mr President, Mrs Nilza de Sena, we obviously share the concern with you, especially with regard to the examinations, which is already under discussion...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u48	Concern and responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u49	... because, in the space of a class quarter, they have completed the national examinations of the 4. the year and the year of the 6th. They're on their way. The 9th. the year does not seem to be a peaceful matter between the government party bench and the sides of the parties that support it, thus leaving students without a time of binding evaluation until their 15 years old, without knowing equally for all students in the system as it progresses its learning and how it is carried out in schools. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Amadeu Soares Albergaria.]] Mrs Susana Amador, I found it curious to have made an extensive intervention, in which she stressed several times the defense of the public school, never referring to the particular issue that we brought here to the debate, which is that of association contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u50	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u51	I assume it is also a subject that is not yet clarified between the various sides on the left side of the Hemicycle. As I have often mentioned and stressed the importance of having been referred to the former PS ministers, I am assuming, and I think well, that I agree with one of the citations I made, that of Prof. Marçal Grilo, which says that if there is a public school and a private school in an area and if the private has better evaluation should close the public and remain private. I therefore hope that this will be your behaviour in the discussion that will take place on Friday concerning association contracts. [[CDS-PP applause.]] She also said that the PS has its own agenda for education. It will not lead me to harm that, still in the spirit of the court, because today is the day of epiphany, and since this religious calendar will be under discussion on Friday, that on this matter and many others wish you and all the Members of your bench who have a good epiphany. [[Congratulations and laughter from the CDS-PP and from the PSD Members.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u52	Mr João Ramos has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first political statement the CFP makes in this Parliament on health problems. Unfortunately, reality compels us to return to this subject. Since mid-December, several events have led to the need to report and demand solutions to the serious problems of the National Health Service. We have seen patients who die from lack of assistance in Portugal. And we're not talking about patients who can't even get access to health care—which there are also—but we're in front of patients who die inside hospitals because they're not assisted properly or in good time. He took special media proportions the case of the young man who died at S. José Hospital, because he had the chance to have an aneurysm on a weekend and at that time there was no team of service neurosurgery. This is in one of the most distinguished hospitals in the country. And there were no professionals because the former government cut the value paid in quality and prevention hours. following this case there were the resignations of the Boards of Directors not only from the hospital centre concerned, but also in Santa Maria, where the problem of lack of teams is similar — as well as the President of ARS Lisboa and Vale do Tejo. It was known that the problem was not from now on and that dates back to 2012 / 2013, but nothing was done for the duel. On the contrary: whoever had responsibilities to denounce him remained silent and consistent with the policy of protection. The lack of assistance in the area of neuroradiology did not hinge on the above case. at the end of December, a patient with stroke was transferred from Algarve, where he had already waited six hours in urgency, to Lisbon, where the answer was not available. He was later transferred to Coimbra, where he ended up late, as his death confirmed. We then learned that four more people died in the same situation. These more mediated cases add up to as many others as those who are reporting on saturated and broken emergencies. This in a climate-like year and in which low-temperature peaks have not yet begun. However, waiting periods are already at 12 hours and hospitals are requesting that urgent patients not be referred to them. The rupture in hospital emergency services is a consequence of the shortage of professionals, part of which is motivated by early reform, because these professionals are already sick of their rights being stolen. But other resources have also been reduced. Today, many units have their capacity for exhausted hospitalization, but the former Government has removed over 900 beds from the National Health Service, arguing that they were superfluous, while increasing the number of beds in private hospitals. The origin of these problems is based on one cause: for four years, the PSD/CDS-PP government understood that the National Health Service should be enlarged. They were years of underfunding and dismantling of the National Health Service, of disinvestment and devaluement of health professionals. It is true that this path began to be traced earlier, but it is also true that it has intensified dramatically. While this happens, in Portugal many health professionals are literally thrown out of the country, where they seek better wages and better reception. What is also regrettable is that, despite the problem not being new, it is found that little or nothing has been done to avoid situations that repeat and worsen. The former PSD/CDS-PP government is not only responsible for measures that undermine the response capacity of public health units, as, in view of the concrete finding of its consequences, as was the example of the dramatic situation of last winter, in which nothing has been done so that limited situations do not repeat. On 22 January 2015, in the face of the chaos in hospital emergencies, the CFP made a political statement here saying: « The last days have been fertile in announcements by the Government of measures to resolve the chaos of emergencies. Measures which, contrary to what the Government says, do not definitely solve the problem, can only mitigate it. » For here is the reality confirming what the PCP said then. It was foreseeable that this devaluation of the National Health Service would bring these consequences. The PCP early, and well, alerted to these problems. When the PCP warned that the destruction of the National Health Service contributed to the early death of many Portuguese people were outraged. But reality came, unfortunately, once again, to give reason to the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u55	The PCP has been monitoring the problem. He made a request to hear, in Parliamentary committee, the leaders who resigned and the Minister. This request has today been approved by the Health Committee and we hope that the hearing will take place as quickly as possible. The CFP also presented a recommendation to the Government to identify, in all areas, the consequences of public investment policies and successive budget cuts in the functioning of public health institutions that integrate the National Health Service, health professionals and health care. The health sector cannot continue to be seen as a cost. It is rather an investment in a healthier population and therefore in a more sustainable country, in addition to an investment in the welfare of citizens, and this is irreplaceable in a developed country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u56	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u57	As we said a year ago, "it is necessary to put an end to the policy that every day prevents thousands of Portuguese people from accessing health care and seeking to save at the expense of Portuguese life; it is necessary to hire professionals and value them socially and professionally, integrating them into careers and promoting labour stability; it is necessary to strengthen primary health care through the reopening of health centres and extensions that have been closed; it is necessary to invest in the National Health Service, providing them with the material and financial resources that enable the provision of quality health care. And we were saying at the time that for this it was necessary to change policies and change government. The CFP is now contributing to this policy change. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u58	Mr. João Ramos, five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u59	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u60	Of course. You have the floor, first of all, Mr António Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u61	Mr President, Mr. João Ramos, I will be very objective in the matter which I will put to you. We agree, in fact, that the budget cuts in the area of health were drastic and that the de-investment was obvious. From 2010 to 2014, the budget allocation was less than EUR 15 %—EUR 2000 million — the cost of medication in the field of health, and the budget allocation is not a determinism, it is surely an option and a choice, such as the the thesis of the insolvency of the National Health Service is an option for the product of underfinancing. This obviously has had an impact on primary care: 1, 2 million users without a family doctor; moderate rates that increased more than 50 %; unpaid transport to non-acute patients; larger waiting lists; lower participation in medicines; daily problems, as mentioned, in emergency services; lack of material and consumables. But now, Mr President, there is a new period of hope. The Government is, in fact, recentralizing its activity in primary care and access, transport, moderate rates, response times for complementary diagnostic examinations and for diagnosis and treatment of diseases, in improving the management of hospitals with the motivation of health professionals, in the fight against waste and in a better link with primary care, in order to avoid the establishment of emergency services. In a month and a half, the government reduced moderate rates through the reference of primary or health care 24 ; it contracted more differentiated doctors; it provided specialist consultations in health centres, including physiology and psychology; it strengthened health care with pilot-experiences in the area of oral health; it provided contingency plans for this phase of winter, always so problematic; and it hired more differentiated doctors for emergency services. Indeed, this government action is important. And the question I will ask you is very quick, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u62	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u63	The question is as follows: does the honourable Member think that in so little time — a month and a half — these measures are in fact in accordance with the conditions for strengthening the National Health Service and improving the conditions for access to the least privileged groups of our population? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u64	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Ramos, I would like to begin by welcoming you for bringing to the debate such a serious, serious and current matter as is the situation of the National Health Service and the Portuguese access to health care. But the honourable Member did not just bring the problem to the debate and did more, and also put his finger on the wound. And putting your finger on the wound means pointing out responsibilities for the state in which health is found in Portugal. Certainly, we all remember the words of the Minister of Health of the former PSD/CDS government when he said that the government closed health services to improve Portuguese access to health care. Well, today the scale of the error in calculating the PSD/CDS Government is clear to all, including those who at the time agreed with this doctrine of the former Government that it closed services to improve access to health care by the Portuguese. In fact, the health policy of the previous PSD/CDS Government can be synthesized in four points: first, blind cuts in an area as sensitive as the health area; second, closure of health services throughout the country; third, an indisputable concern with the interests of the private sector in the area of health; fourth and last, a clear effort to push health costs to the user. Well, the results are there. They are the hospitals on the edge of the rupture, the emergencies waiting longer than 12 hours, and, still far from the peak of the flu, the services are already having trouble responding. There are no human resources, there are no internment beds, which are, in fact, forcing patients to be transferred from hospital to hospital, on a real life wheel, which seems most like the wheel of death. This is the result of four years of PSD and CDS governance. Mr. João Ramos, today in fact, there are signs of change in the way of looking at health, as in fact shows the announcement of the construction of the hospital of the Sixal, which is also due to the struggle of the populations and the autarchs, which, in a fair way, have fought a great deal for this claim.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u66	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u67	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Ramos, I would like to ask you what, in your view, is more urgently required today to ensure that the State guarantees access to health care by the Portuguese, at least what is needed to compose what was damaged by the previous PSD/CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u68	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. Deputies Antonio Sales and José Luís Ferreira. in the intervention that I made of the rostrum I effectively mentioned that it was the deinvestment in the National Health Service, the deinvestment in the health area that is responsible for and the cause of these problems, the deinvestment that led to a sub-financing of the national health service. Mr.António Sales also referred to moderate rates and our assessment is that moderate rates effectively cause a limitation on users' access to the National Health Service. in our perspective—and this has not been done— we need to make a clear bet on primary health care. The PSD and CDS government had promised family doctors for all Portuguese, but did not fulfill this promise, not only for family doctors, but in terms of a set of technicians. For example, the number of nurses is below the defined ratios, lack diagnostic and therapeutic techniques, lack operational assistants. This is a cross-sectional lack of professionals in the National Health Service. But underfunding and de-investment in primary health care also has a very close relationship with what is happening today in hospitals and with what has happened in recent years. It is that the evaluation indicates that more than 70% of the use of hospitals' emergencies are not, indeed, emergencies, but lack of response in the consultations that patients should have and are therefore obliged to address the emergencies of hospitals, thereby suffocating them. That is why the existence of a family doctor and the strengthening of primary health care are so important to solve this problem. We understand that the defeat of the PSD government and the CDS was an important step to reverse these policies, to reverse the sub-financing cycle to which the National Health Service was voted. We also know the position of the current Minister of Health, even before being, when he said that the standard of quality and efficiency should be in the National Health Service and, therefore, we understand that the conditions to solve these problems are created. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, with regard to the Sixal hospital, we also appreciate the issue and point out that the struggle of the populations and the autarchs was crucial so that the matter should not be forgotten and that a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic should be adopted today that determines its construction. What we understand is fundamental, and what we have already proposed, is, on the one hand, to make an assessment of what the implications of cuts and underfinancing were, as well as its implications in Portuguese, health units and the National Health Service and, on the other hand, to break this cycle of underfinancing, de-investment and de-valorization of services and health professionals. That is what needs to be done and that is the contribution that the CFP is available to make. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u70	To make a request for clarification, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Ramos, in our view, the death of a citizen would recommend that there be some care, some respect for families and that the political instrumentization of a tragedy, a family tragedy, be avoided. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u72	Respect should remove the primitive speech which Mr has produced and which he no longer seeks to use than to use the death of a citizen, the misfortune of others to, on the basis of unforeseen and factual considerations, conclude in a lamentable political use.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u74	Do you not know the CFP which follows an investigation, conducted by your Government, with a view to accurate clarification of the circumstances that have occurred? [[PCP protests.]] Do you not think the CFP that these political statements, in addition to instrumentalizing the drama of a family, throw anathema on the National Health Service and its professionals, which is unworthy and undermines people's confidence in the SNS with damage to all?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u76	The PCP, as always, has only certainty and no doubt. On the contrary, we have doubts, at least until there is a factual and concrete report that reveals with certainty the circumstances in which this death occurred. And the questions are many, Mr President: has the medical assistance in question been provided? Why didn't there be a transfer to another hospital? Clinically, was there a transfer? Why didn't a team come from a nearby hospital to do surgery at São José Hospital? Why are some doctors in São José not willing to be on prevention at the weekend at the rate of 250 € per day and in other hospitals is it possible to maintain the prevention teams? If the CFP is right, is everything due to remuneration reductions, when thousands of professionals have maintained their duties, having seen their wages also reduced?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u77	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u78	I will finish, Mr. President. Does the CFP know in the de-investment version that, in particular, the Central Lisbon Hospital Centre over the four years, had a budgetary boost that began at EUR 308 million and ended at EUR 383 million? This is not de-investment, sir! I believe that these and other questions needing concrete answers, so that we can then withdraw the true conclusions and we can not take advantage of the tragedy of people to make primitive politics, which is what Mr John Ramos did.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u79	Primitive is death without assistance!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u80	Mr. Miguel Santos, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u81	The Portuguese do indeed deserve much more respect than the use that Mr makes of the tragedy elsewhere. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u82	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to make the last request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating Mr João Ramos on bringing this issue to debate, but more in the face of the episodes that the country has had in recent weeks. The case of death at S. José Hospital is a drama, it is true, but it is a drama that is unacceptable in this country. It is unacceptable because we cannot allow patients to die for lack of medical care in hospitals and it is unacceptable because it was avoidable. And it was avoidable because there are political responsibilities in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u85	In 2013 the Left Block warned the PSD/CDS government that the absence of a intervention neuroradiology prevention team could lead to drama. PSD and CDS didn't do anything. In 2014 the Left Block warned the PSD/CDS government that the lack of a neurosurgery prevention team at S. José Hospital could lead to drama. PSD and CDS didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u86	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u87	The honourable Member has said that recognizing the facts is to launch anathema on the National Health Service. Launching the anathema on the National Health Service is not recognizing that there are services in rupture. What launched the anathema was the policies that caused the rupture in these services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u89	What launched the anathema about the National Health Service was the PSD, the CDS and its government have, Budgeting after Budget, reduced the funding of the National Health Service. To recognize that today there are hospitals that are at the limit of their response capacity is not to launch the anathema on the National Health Service. Who launched the anathema about the National Health Service placed them in this response limit and who placed them in this response limit were the PSD, the CDS and its government when, year after year, they let about 3000 doctors leave the National Health Service and let many services and hospitals suffer from the lack of doctors. Therefore, it was the right that launched the anathema on the National Health Service and will be left in this Parliament to revitalize the National Health Service in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u90	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u91	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr Miguel Santos and Mr Moisés Ferreira. Mr Miguel Santos has put, with great emphasis, respect for families and for the death of the citizen. For now, I would like to inform you that it was not just a citizen; unfortunately, it has been several citizens who have died because of lack of response from the National Health Service and the truth is that this is not the first time that you make this accusation, of instrumentalizing the situation of the patients. When it was the case, which was discussed here, of patients with hepatitis, the honourable Member came up with the same talk and the fact is that, if there had not been a chance to discuss this issue here, the problem was not solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u92	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u93	So I am glad that the problems are discussed here so that they can be solved. But, Mr President, respecting families is not to silence what has happened. Respect for families is to clear up the responsibilities, to secure the political responsibilities for what has happened. That's respect for families. [[PCP applause.]] We know that the PSD and CDS are not interested in finding out responsibility for this matter, but that is what matters to the proper functioning of the National Health Service. What would interest the PSD and CDS would be to silence these problems, but for that they do not count on the PCP. I wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, unfortunately, are several places where problems have occurred: in Abrantes, in Évora, in Faro, in the Garcia de Orta Hospital, in the Amadora-Sintra Hospital, in the Western Lisbon Hospital Centre, in the Mid-Tejo Hospital Centre, in Viseu, in the Barreiro, units where waiting times in some of them are longer than 12 hours ; where waiting times for screening, in some of them, are longer than 1 hour ; units in which is required not to be transferred urgent patients because there is no response capacity ; units where there is lack of beds after they have been closed... This is all the result of the options of the PSD and the CDS, who want to create a National Health Service at two speeds: a service that was public but discharacterized and with few resources for the poorest and a private service to which millions of euros are transferred to those who can afford. What reality has shown is that this system of yours, as they call it, the National Health System, does not give answers and the evidence is that a patient goes from Algarve to Coimbra, because, in the middle, there are a set of hospital units that cannot respond. Therefore, there is no complementarity between private and public services. The reality is in sight and the PSD and the CDS, which had four years of government responsibility, could have solved many of these problems, but the fact is that these four years have continued to exist and even intensified. Fortunately, today there is another reality that can change this situation. I will finish as I have done in the previous intervention: here is the CFP to make its contribution to this solution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u94	For a political declaration on behalf of the PSD, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this first plenary meeting of the year 2016, I begin by wishing all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, an excellent year. Let us know, each and every one of us, to place national interest above all others. I think that's what the Portuguese expect of each of us. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is true that the statization of society and the partisanization of the public administration apparatus were brands of socialist governments, we thought these were practices of the past. But the government of António Costa, with a little more than one month of life, proves otherwise. And proof, why? The confidence of citizens in public administration and governments is supported only by competence and transparency and never by any partisan logic. It is therefore in freedom of choice and equal opportunities that must be rooted in the construction of modern Portugal. It was on the basis of these assumptions that the PSD/CDS Government has launched essential pillars for a reform of the State which has as guiding principles, I repeat, merit and transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u96	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u97	Two examples: the Recruitment and Selection Commission for Public Administration is one of these pillars. Moreover, in order to preside over this Commission, in an attitude of great political impartiality, the majority then invited the Socialist Party to indicate its President, as another example is the legal imposition by the PSD / CDS Government of compulsory publication on the Government's electronic page of appointments of staff in office in the ministerial offices.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u99	however, and with only one month of life, the Executive of the left front clearly reveals the options he has made, does and will do in this matter. Or let's see. In just 41 days — in just 41 days — the Government of António Costa has already taken 154 appointments.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u100	It must be at the request of the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u101	Perhaps now you can see why we have one of the largest governments of the last legislatures, with Under-Secretarys of State without end, ministers for everything and something more and attached to the deputy ministers of the Prime Minister. Counting on the direct appointments that the law confers, we immediately observed a legion of greedy supporters of placement, coming, perhaps, and perhaps the nervousness, of the various quadrants on the Portuguese left. To date, this government has already made 154 nominations for its ministries. Repeat, 154 appointments in 41 days! The government has forgotten to appoint the advisor with the power to publish the nominations on its electronic page. A requirement of the law. [[PSD applause.]] Of two, one : either the government does not know the law, which is revealing atrocious negligence, or fails on purpose, and the PSD Parliamentary Group demands to know why. The conclusion remains: this is a government that cannot appoint, but it is a government that is very ashamed to disclose. Without shame, because it does not inhibit itself from doing so; with shame, because it ignores the law and the most basic rules of democratic transparency, thus proceeding without public disclosure, as it should, the choices it makes. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there was even hope. There was hope that the Government of Antonio Costa would continue its policy of transparency and clarity. In fact, he himself stated it in the Government Programme on page 44. But on page 45 you can read: « It is by pressing to stabilize the central core of the organic structure of the ministries, avoiding the changes introduced by successive governments». The truth is that only 41 days after possession, all the leaders — all — at the top of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, central and regional, were all exempt. Without any shame, without any particimony, the Government excludes leaders who in the last year have the legacy of reducing unemployment in Portugal and increasing employment. He says the government wants to change politics. But what? The reverse of the trend we've been watching? Do the Government of Dr. António Costa want to return to the increase in galloping unemployment, so expensive and so to the taste of the governments of Eng.o Socrates? What do the parties that support the government now have to say? Will they remain in the noisy silence after this intervention, or are they waiting for their right, perhaps legitimate, for their own indication, for those places that have now wandered? But let's go back to page 45 of your Government's programme: « It is pressingly stabilize the central core of the organic structure of the ministries, avoiding the changes introduced by successive governments». It is true to say: dead letter, that of the Socialist Party program! in practice, they were all exonerated. The question is this: but not a servant? Wasn't there one who was competent? But does anyone believe that? Oh, my God! And, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, the CRESAP ( Commission on Recruitment and Selection for Public Administration ) is to continue? Or what was a requirement for transparency, for your government no longer serves? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Public Administration needs stability, it is true; policies must have consistency and durability, it is true; but, apparently, these characteristics can exist only if the nominees are chosen by Dr. António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u103	I will ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u104	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The Government may be aware that the PSD will not deal with any takeover by the Socialist Party. Well, you know the Portuguese that Dr. António Costa is an expert in taking power at all costs, but you may know that Dr. António Costa will have in the party most voted in the last legislative elections to defend transparency, merit and competence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u105	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u106	That is why we are here, that is Portugal that we built with the Portuguese and on this path we will not deviate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u107	Mr Hugo Soares, Mr Soares, wrote to ask for clarification. Deputies João Galamba, Pedro Filipe Soares, Cecilia Meireles and Antonio Filipe. Do you intend to answer together or separately?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u108	Mr. President, two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u109	Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u110	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, the honourable Member must have confused things at the beginning of his speech, when he said there was an infinity of Under-Secretarys of State. There's only one and it's called Mariana Vieira da Silva. It has immense quality, but I confirm that it is only one person. [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] The honourable Member also came here to talk about the reform of the state and I noted that he was not ashamed. It is that if there is something about which there is document and not practice, because they have done nothing about it, it is exactly the reform of the State. So I thought it was curious that I mentioned it here. Then he made a very interesting intervention, which has the small problem of not collating with reality. And I am not saying that it is the former President, or the President of CRESAP, Professor Bilhim, appointed by the PSD and the CDS, who, I do not know if you know, is not very happy with the appointments made in the State services, particularly in social security. I can have Professor João Bilhim's statements circulated here, saying that he deeply regrets the full partisanization in all social security,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... where CRESAP was doing what was competing with it, which was indicating the name of three people, and then, by chance, they all ended up being CDS and PSD. So, honourable Member, don't come here armed as a virgin and pretending to be a member of a party that disparted the Public Administration, when, if anything has happened in recent years, it was exactly the opposite, and everywhere. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u111	As for the IEFP, if you say here that you have left a legacy of rising employment and falling unemployment, I will have to remind you of the record of your previous government in this matter and tell you that the same is not about creating jobs, it is about destruction. And in the year 2015, the latest data, starting in August, are not rising employment and falling unemployment, rather. In fact, in 2015, in the peak of summer, contrary to what is normal, employment in Portugal fell and is now stagnant according to the data known in November. Therefore, from August to November, there was no improvement in the labour market, on the contrary. And if there is a major feature in the labour market in recent times and that, yes, it is important to fight—and that is why it is necessary to change the leadership of the IEFP—is the policy conducted recently by the IEFP, which was that of increasing precariousness and some statistical juggling for the convenience of the PSD and the CDS. That policy is over. The Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of its left, will give priority to quality employment, wages and the fight against precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, as you will understand, the team that led the previous policy should not be the team that will lead the new policy that this government will implement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u112	You don't really know the quality of people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u113	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u114	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, I must say that when I heard him speak in state reform, I remembered Mr Paulo Portas and that document which he would even present and which made all the difference. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] The times have passed, so has the government. Mr Paulo Portas is not even here to defend himself, but I hoped that the honourable Member could present here this document studied, validated, in-depth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u115	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u116	... as a result of the reflection of two stands, of a government of numerous specialists. But there was nothing, sir! Because there was nothing about it. Yes, there was an ideological fanaticism, a fanaticism of the jobs for the boys,... [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] ... the same ones who tried to create a huge adrabice, which is the CRESAP, to be able to say: « No, we are different. The PSD and CDS have a CRESAP that prevents, for example, nominations for the State apparatus resulting in each indication for the positions of the State now being the PSD or the CDS". And we saw CRESAP being created, we saw CRESAP working and we saw appointments happen. And when CRESAP was asked who was now going to a certain place, CRESAP replied: "It is one of these three. The government knows. Do not keep on seeking. ” And, curiously, appointment behind appointment, after appointment, was now leaving the ticket to the CDS now leaving the ticket to the PSD. Appointment behind appointment, behind appointment, now leaving the ticket to the PSD or leaving the ticket to the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] That's how CRESAP was working, sir! This is the PSD / CDS legacy. So if you say that we want to change this, I say: we want to! From the beginning, the Left Block said that CRESAP would leave everything in it so that appointments of always existed. there is, on our part, a frontal opposition to the CRESAP and a need for transparency in relation to all appointments and the process of the contests taken forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u117	What about the lack of publication? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u118	But the honourable Member has brought here another example, the example of the exoneration of the members of the IEFP. Mr President, I must tell you that when we have an institute that should be used to create jobs, and when, for example, it hires 900 green receipt trainers...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u119	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u120	I shall finish, Mr President, with a very direct question. As I said, when we have an institute that should be used to create jobs, and when, for example, this institute hires 900 green receipt trainers, tell me, Mr Member, if these people should not be exempt, if it is not a service to the country to exempt these people. It's that whoever wants to create jobs doesn't create green receipts, but that's what these people did. So, very well, we say, they were exonerated. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u121	To reply, Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u122	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions that have been put to me, but I must also say that what we have just heard makes me clearly concerned. I am concerned that the last few times have shown that those who go in the leadership of this government, on the left, are the Left Block. And when we hear Mr. De Clerk say here that there is a frontal opposition to CRESAP, we all realize that we are going back to the old days. Let us go back to the times when we now realize that the nominations that the Socialist Party wants to make are so that they can, yes, ask those who have been serious in the performance of functions over the past four years, confusing them, embezzle them, distorting numbers, charging the government in office. Mr President, that is not why the Public Administration should serve. And when Mr Pedro Filipe Soares said that he was now leaving the ticket to one, he was now leaving the ticket to another, I do not know if he was speaking, for example, of the President of INATEL, who is now going to be replaced by the Socialist Government and was even Secretary of State of the Socialist Party. I do not know whether you would be referring to a Member of the Socialist Party in this House, who was appointed by the Government as head of education in the Public Administration. Sir, don't confuse me! The honourable Member must decide once and for all: either it is from the Government, or it is from the opposition. [[It's from the government!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u123	The honourable Member has nothing to say about the fact that the Socialist Party Government is breaking the law and has not yet published the 154 nominations, which they did in 41 days on the official government page, as is the law, as does the law say it has to be done? You have to get used to this new record. Mr. João Galamba, the honourable Member is normally the Member of the Socialist Party for difficult times. Therefore, he was able to tell us today, both to us and to the country, that in the last year there has been no improvement in both employment and unemployment numbers. I believe that saying this to the thousands of Portuguese citizens who have found the possibility of working and being paid in the last year is indeed something extraordinary and that you are making some difficulty, so I am giving you the effort here. Finally, Mr President, let me say that the signs of concern have increased with Mr Galamba's intervention. It is that he even addressed Prof. João Bilhim as the former President of CRESAP. It seems to me that 'he has fled his mouth to the truth', Mr President. We now realize that the Socialist Party will prepare itself even to re-make appointments as they were made before 2011, based on three things: either on the militant card of the Portuguese Communist Party ; or on the militant card of the Left Block ; or finally on the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u124	Only The Greens have been out of business!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u125	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u126	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, I would like to ask you a question because there is one subject, mentioned by the honourable Member, which I believe is being a little forgotten. The truth is, when this government took possession, I heard here proclamations, even something inflamed, like those of which it was a turn, it was transparency, it was dialogue, it was Parliament that was going to have a new role, finally, it was a new time. And suddenly, with regard to this problem, which can be called a real blackout of the boys, with regard to that, no one is already curious, no one wants to know about anything. But, after all, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, appointments will continue to be published on the Government Portal, or will they not?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u127	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u128	It's just, sirs. Members of two, one : or the government thinks it's nonsense to publish the appointments of the cabinets on the Government Portal and then change the law and assume it, saying: "We don't publish because nobody has anything to do with it. The way cabinets work, the money they spend, the people who have and the means that they are affected is a problem that is only ours» and the general public does not have to know,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u129	Contributing citizens!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u130	... i.e., it assumes that transparency is only a word but that acts are very opaque; or, then, it is even worse because it is the same thing as saying « publication made a lot of sense, we agree very much, but, as we do not agree, we will not do it». And this is something that in a rule of law is a little difficult to accept, because if the law says it is to comply, it does not only do when it is right for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u131	By the way, the Constitution...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u132	Therefore, it is important that you be clear in this debate exactly when they will do so. And it never ceases to be extraordinarily curious that even so curious, so curious, so curious parties, now, in relation to your government's boys and the boys supported by the Left Block, they no longer have any curiosity about who they are. I wonder if there will not be such special information for BE in your coalition agreement to find out which boys are VV. Ex. They're naming.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u134	Finally, I am not going to go into the debate again, which we have often had on unemployment numbers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because there is an undeniable truth: when the previous government took possession, we were in the middle of a crisis and unemployment was rising — and unfortunately, it has increased a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u135	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u136	Surely, Mr President, thanking you for your tolerance. What the Government has left, the unemployment rate of 12 to 4 % is, yes, very high, it is very difficult for people who have not yet found employment, but it is also much lower than that in Greece than 25%, the country where you put into practice what you believe, and is less than Spain. It is, yes, a rate of unemployment that we want it to be lower and going down, but it is also a rate of unemployment that, fortunately for many people who feel this in their lives, is falling down. This is what we left behind — and we were very proud. And we will always continue to work for it to be lower and lower, because that is our function and that is our duty. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u137	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u138	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, when the honourable Member came here to talk about the reform of the state, the first thought that occurred to me was this : « Decisively, the coalition is broken down ». The honourable Member came to speak of the famous script of the state reform, so pompously announced and never carried out by the former Deputy Prime Minister and leader of the CDS. in fact, the reform that the previous government did was not reform the state; it was, yes, dismantle, liquidate, fire. That is what you have actually reformed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u140	But the honourable Member's intervention was on the question of nominations. So let's talk about appointments. If you come to us here and say that you believe that the state apparatus should not be captured by party customers, I will tell you, Mr, that we can no longer agree. The problem is that when Mr Hugo Soares, who is a PSD Member, comes here to talk about appointments, that is « to talk about rope at hanging houses ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u141	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u142	And you know why, Your Honor? Look, let's look for examples, and you don't have to go too far. Dr. Sérgio Monteiro transferred directly from State Secretary of Public Works of the PSD Government / CDS to a millionaire contract, which is said to be 30 000 € / month, to sell the New Bank. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u143	But did the government appoint him? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u144	Don't get excited, Mr. Deputies. Then you'll have time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u145	With pleasure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u146	Second example: three days after the elections, the Chief of Staff of Minister Mota Soares was illegally appointed as Director of the Institute of Financial Management of Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u148	The scandal broke out, resigned three days later, but was appointed. Mr President, it is enough to do a brief research in the press and we are dealing with even an on-line newspaper, which is not known for having left-wing sympathies, which is the Observer, who reported that on the day the current Prime Minister was commissioned by the President of the Republic to form government on the same day, the previous Government made 100 appointments to the ministerial offices.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u149	Mr President, I will ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u150	I will finish, Mr. President. I quote the news: « on the day Costa was called to form new Executive, about 100 appointments were published for positions in PSD-CDS government offices that will fall ». But at this rate, in 41 days, you would not be criticizing 154 nominations, you would be criticizing 4100 nominations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u152	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about appointments. I would like to say, Mr President, that we are very happy to talk about this because, as everyone will recognize, we are not looking for places here. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u153	You guys are hauling buses to the demonstrations...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u154	It's for the scouts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u155	Mr Hugo Soares, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u156	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been put to me... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr. João Oliveira seems to have been a little uncomfortable with a side,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u157	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u158	...for which I asked for some time tolerance. In fact, I found it funny that Mr. João Oliveira had become upset with a part of him that made buses that went to a demonstration instead of being at school. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u159	That's right! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u160	The uncomfortable stays. Mr President, I would like to say that today those who serve at the Social Security Institute were also concerned. Mr Galamba has already made the warning: after the Employment Institute, you will prepare yourself for social security, which will be next. Mr President, I would like to begin by replying to Mr António Filipe, who brought back the issue of State reform, and still well. Mr President, when I heard it, I thought that I would start by raising the news that came today — because state reform is the set of reforms that we have been making over the past four years — and stress the note given today by the International Monetary Fund on the reform which Mr here so often criticized, which was the profound reform that was done, for example, in justice, in Portugal. However, as far as this is concerned, Mr President, not a fault of my own, nor a word of my own. In addition, with great frankness and friendship, I told him, he had another intellectual seriousness in the intervention he did. The honourable Member has not yet realized — and I understand — whether he is a member of the opposition or power and he will always turn to this bench, forgetting that who is ruling is the Socialist Party, who has appointed the Socialist Party and who has not published, according to the law, was the Socialist Party. Mr. Deputy said zero to the customs! The honourable Member is disturbed by this attitude of the Socialist Party. But perhaps, the gentlemen. Members should have instructions from the Central Committee that it is not a good option to criticize the options of the Socialist Party because it may call into question the common political positions, which, it seems, should have some secret addendum with regard to appointments.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u161	This is not the JSD, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u162	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is true, she is right when she says that it is better for the Socialist Party to assume once and for all. Either transparency is to practice or is, in fact, dead letter in the mouth of the Members and rulers of the Socialist Party. CRESAP did all the recruitment until it left three finalists. How many times were the leaders of the Socialist Party chosen, independent and independent citizens to perform functions?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u163	More than 70%!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u164	I've given you a very varied example. The question that arises, and that it was important to be clarified in this debate, but it did not remain, having only posed threats, is whether the Socialist Party will or will not comply with the law, whether it will publish the 155 nominations it has already made for the ministerial offices, whether it will do so when it is and, fundamentally, whether it will continue or not rely on the Committee on Recruitment and Selection for Public Administration, which is an essential pillar for a modern, transparent public administration and where citizens can trust it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u165	Let us turn to the following political declaration. In representation of the PS, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes Mendonça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The agreements signed between the Socialist Party and the other left-wing parliamentary parties have opened a new time in this Assembly of the Republic and in the country by enabling a government based on an alternative programme to austerity policy, economic impoverishment and social backwardness, which the right coalition applied in the previous legislature. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there are points that we naturally assume separate the PS from the CFP, the Greens and the BE, there is, however, something that unites everyone: to make politics an instrument for improving the living conditions of citizens,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... an instrument that values work and workers, an instrument that seeks to show that impoverishment is not the only way that can be followed, but rather its opposite, that is, to make the growth of the economy and the income of families the high priority of governance. This is how the Socialist Party now has a huge responsibility to rule Portugal. A little more than a month after its takeover, the government, led by Antonio Costa, has already shown that, contrary to what some said, and still today they have said, it is possible to do different and better than the government's policy on the right, it is possible to combine a policy of relaunching the economy with increasing the income of families and sustainable public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this short new period of confidence for Portugal and the Portuguese, it has already been possible to adopt an important set of measures, which translate into fulfilling the commitments made by the Socialist Party before the Portuguese. This is also the best way to dignify politics and politicians: to fulfil the commitments made, with the eyes set in a better future. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of the measures already adopted, I would like to highlight those aimed at the recovery of family income. These measures already involve improving social protection. From then on, with the return of the annual update of the pension value of the general social security regime and with the resumption of social minimums by the replacement of the reference values of the solidarity complement for the elderly and the social income of insertion, and also by the increase of the first three steps of the family allowance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we must also note here today the gradual decrease in the extraordinary contribution of solidarity on pensions, which will lead to its total elimination at the beginning of next year. These measures also involve the beginning of the tax relief when the Assembly of the Republic approved the end of the overtax of IRS for all in 2017 and for most Portuguese already in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These measures are also a strong sign of the commitment to improving wages in Portugal. during 2016 it will be gradually eliminated the cut that had been imposed on the salaries of public servants, without any criterion, by the governance of the right. The national minimum wage went up to €530, on a journey which will lead to the fact that at the end of the Legislature it is fixed at €600, according to our commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese can therefore have confidence in a government that fulfills the Constitution and does what you promised! We promised and started to fulfill! Let's promise and let's keep doing it! Also in the area of improving rights and eliminating discrimination, this Parliament and this government, by turning the right to their opposition, are making a difference. We comply with the approval of the legislation that allows the adoption by couples of the same sex, bringing down from time to time an incompatible discrimination with a decent society, in which it is a civilizational advance of the greatest symbolic and effective importance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have complied with the repeal of legislation which imposes unacceptable and even unworthy obstacles to women's access to voluntary termination of pregnancy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the support for the economy is already being revitalized, as was absolutely necessary. The Government has already approved the measures which will enable the implementation of the commitment made here by the Prime Minister in the presentation of the Government Programme, so that at the end of the first 100 days the payment of EUR 100 million from Community funds will be implemented, accelerating investment and job creation. A mission structure has also been set up for the capitalisation of companies, which will present concrete proposals for diversification of sources of financing. I would also like to highlight, in the fisheries sector, the agreement reached after the previous Government's inertia for a growth of 11, 4 % on fishing opportunities in national waters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ruling also means solving the problems that others did not want, they did not know how to solve and even worsen. This was the case with Banif, in which there were only a few weeks to resolve, in the context of urgency, a situation already known to the previous government for more than a year, but which insisted on hiding only for electoral reasons. The PS had an alternative solution, but it was no longer possible to perform. The adopted solution does not fully satisfy anyone because it was "only" the possible solution in the state to which they had let things come in Banif.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u167	Madam Member, I will ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u168	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. A solution was taken, with the courage that was left to the right when he was in the government, which fully protected, as was guaranteed, all the deposits and savings of Portuguese migrants entrusted to Banif outside the national territory. It was the possible solution, in the defence of jobs, to safeguard the economy, in particular the autonomous regions and the stability of the financial system. It is possible, therefore, today, to increase Portuguese income, relaunch the economy and investment, ensuring the sustainability of public accounts and the national financial system. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we have ahead of us a path that will certainly not be easy, where it is necessary to have social sensitivity and rigour permanently as allies, but by the vote the Portuguese asked to turn the page of austerity. [[PSD Protests Hugo Lopes Soares.]] The PS's understandings with the other parliamentary left parties have responded to this request. With the PS government, it opens up a new time, which is time of hope and trust. It is time for a different government, with the support of a different majority. It is time to return to the defense of the Portuguese social model. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u169	Madam Member, four Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. Do you intend to answer together or separately?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u170	Mr. President, I am responding to the set of two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u171	You have the floor, then, first of all, Mr Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u172	Mr President, I would like to wish all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, a good year. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I would like to begin by telling you that, in matters such as restoring or relieving sacrifices imposed on Portuguese, whatever they are, we all agree. I would say until it was the previous government that began to relieve many of the sacrifices that were imposed or started by the Socialist Party. I assume that I have no doubt about this. I will also say, again and again, that in many matters, such as the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity) and the ordination of public service, we have the same position, we only have different times and speeds. Therefore, on this subject, we agree. Madam Member, allow me to tell you only those in which I do not agree. About Banif, advises the common sense that there is some calmness and weighting. We will be here to vote, to decide to hold a committee of inquiry, to know how they were done, why and who will be paid for these interventions in Banif. Maybe it's still early to make big statements. Here we are to know who, how and why.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u174	She said that there is a new time, a new government, and we know it is. It is the Government of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block, the Green Party and the Socialist Party. [[Exactly!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u175	Don't be a fireman! Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, do not be a carpenter, because it is indeed your government and therefore assume it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u177	We will have time to know why some initiatives go down without a vote, or are hidden, but we will be here to know. Madam Member, this new time is not so young, because we've seen it in the past. Do you remember the increase in public service salaries in 2009 by 2, 9 %? Do you remember this same model of development, of the same model of intervention, of the same model of government that brought the troika, which originated a pre-bancarrot and forced us to all the measures that the previous government was obliged to take?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u178	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u179	Even now I was looking at that document of the Youth Parliament and I realized — again, I already knew and had said it — that the unemployment rate, during the governments of the Socialist Party, has always increased, never decreased. And now we have a much lower level of unemployment than we have inherited. What new time are you talking about, Your Honor? How does it once again say that it will make the same path, the same model, the same practices, the same policies? Oh, my God! How does it guarantee that we will not reach the same destination again, the same difficulties, external aid, bankruptcy and troika? Tell me how this is possible! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u180	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u181	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement. A few moments ago we saw the right to welcome the unemployment rate that we know today without understanding that there is no pride at a rate of unemployment that persists in not coming down, that continues in both digits and that leaves so many people outside, so many people who never appear in unemployment statistics, because they have given up looking, because they are part-time workers, because they have emigrated. There were those who were left out because those responsible for IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ), that we were still talking about here recently, excluded these people, gave them only a precarious future and allowed them, yes, a fraudulent concealment of unemployment statistics. The right and Mrs Cecilia Meireles recently presented the reduction of the unemployment rate as a victory without realizing that the maintenance of structural unemployment and long-term unemployment, which is today a structural problem of the Portuguese economy, is related to the destruction of productive capacity in this country, with the fall of public investment, with the fall of private investment, with a policy that attacked income and killed domestic demand in the name of a mirror model of exports that never arrived. This is because the contribution of net foreign demand to GDP continues to be negative even after four years of austerity and the creative destruction that has been made over the entire Portuguese economy. Already before the right had proudly presented its results for the deficit, hitting with his hand on his chest and saying "Don't spoil! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But that was before we found out that the accounts were full of time bombs ready to explode on anyone who would come and pick up on them and try to present the final accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u182	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u183	There is an important difference between PSD and CDS and this parliamentary majority, which is presented here: the right one believes that sacrifices are the cure for the economic crisis—it is a moral belief, conservative, old, self-sufficient, but which says that, if we suffer enough, the economy will grow, as if the economy had something to do with sacrifices or moral beliefs—and we understand that the recovery of income is a mechanism of economic recovery itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u184	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u185	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, income recovery is a recovery mechanism. This is a very different view from the conservative view of the right, and of which I think that the honourable Member shares, as she shares the view that human rights and economic rights are the condition of a country of progress, are the condition of economic growth, but also of well-being and respect for the quality of life of all people in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u186	In reply, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u187	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral and Mrs Mariana Mortágua, thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr. Hélder Amaral, I have only three very simple answers to give you. On the increase in public service salaries in 2009, I remember well and remember the debate in this Parliament. Do you know what happened to the vote? It was approved unanimously. I don't know why you're complaining now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the maintenance of the overtax, the freezing of pensions, cuts in wages, the degradation of social support, i.e. the maintenance of cuts in the solidarity complement for the elderly or social income of insertion, we know what the right income was (in fact, it must be said, a very divorced right today and already far from remembering that the two parties were doing these evils to the Portuguese): keep, with your Government, until 2019. And that's what we didn't want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Hélder Amaral, on the third and final issue, I must say that there are guarantees that cannot be given, but there is a guarantee that I can give here in the name of the Socialist Party's bench: we will do everything we can to respect the dignity of people, to respect the right to their wages, the right to decent work. We will do everything possible to make growth and employment a reality in Portugal. Mrs Mariana Mortágua recalled here, and well, that Mr. Right-wing Members today welcomed unemployment figures. I would say it is good to always be present that never, as in the last four years, have been so many jobs destroyed in Portugal. And it is this investment that we too must have as a priority in our government action. Yes, they left time bombs, as was the case with Banif, or as will be other cases that will be known. There we will be to resolve these problems with determination, courage and transparency. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, for us, it is absolutely clear that a policy of increasing income increases the economy and therefore human rights, economic rights and also social rights must be fully respected by government action, and that is what the Socialist Party proposes in its governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u188	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u189	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, in fact the perspective with which we started the year 2016 is totally different from that of the beginning of the last five years, in particular the last five years. in the last five years, at every beginning of the year, the prospect that workers, pensioners and the people had was that it would be a year of more backwardness, of more withdrawal of rights, of more attack on the social functions of the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u191	The CDS Member Hélder Amaral, in his request for clarification, sought to state that they had left only positive inheritances and that their policies had been very positive for the country. I ask what the honourable Member is referring to. Are you referring to the destruction of jobs? Are you referring to unemployment and poverty as never before seen? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Are you referring to the increasing difficulties in access to health care? Are you referring to the benefit given to private school to the detriment of public school? Are you referring to the House of Douro? Are you referring to artistic teaching? Or is it referring to the court in social benefits, wages and pensions? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] It was important for the honourable Member to say what you are referring to, because in all this identification I do not see a single positive aspect,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u192	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u193	... only deeply negative aspects that have attacked the most fragile, the workers, the same of all time, those who have had no responsibility for the situation in which the country has met but who have paid the full bill for the dismissals of the great economic groups that you have always favored.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u195	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, in fact we have started a year of 2016 with a new prospect of recovery of income, recovery of rights, resolution of concrete and immediate problems facing workers, reformers and the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u196	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u197	I shall conclude by saying that some measures have already been effectively adopted, particularly in the Assembly of the Republic, such as the replacement of the IVG legal framework (voluntary termination of pregnancy), the end of the examinations, the cancellation of concessions for public road transport. But other measures are now on the table, such as those aimed at the replacement of holidays, the replacement of 35 hours a week's work, preventing families from losing their homes, the valuing of public school. Finally, we are in a new time, in a time of change, this time for which the CFP has contributed decisively and in which we will be to intervene and fight in order to defend the rights of workers and our people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u198	To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u199	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has brought us here, instead of a political declaration, a set of intentions in a proclaiming tone, speaking in new days, in future present full of good intentions, which is not new. It is not the first time that we have heard the Socialist Party, when it is in government functions, to beg more or less the same thing, although, we recognize, at other times, it has not been accompanied, in choir and in unison, by the radical extreme left, which here has made a chorus also with these proclamational intentions. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The honourable Member said that the austerity policy, which would have been taken over by the previous government, now has an end. It has already been said here by Hélder Amaral, and rightly so, that this policy of austerity, rigour and restraint had already ended in the previous government, and had a planned, clear, secure and clear end. It is appropriate to put some light into the intervention which the Socialist Party has made in this matter, because the voters understood very well, on 4 October—and that is why the Socialist Party has lost the elections—that austerity, restraint, rigour, sacrifices that the Portuguese were forced to make over the past four years have not been born by work and grace from anyone other than the governance of the Socialist Party, which preceded the 2011 Memorandum. Once and for all, it has to be clear here: if there have been sacrifices in the past four years, it has been precisely because of the politics of the Socialist Party, political, that the honourable Member has come to say here, without regret and, allow me to tell you, from a political point of view, without shame, that they are prepared to repeat again. Mrs Deputy spoke of the return of income, in the deterioration of the tax burden, in the elimination of pay cuts in public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u200	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u201	I will finish, Mr. President. Anyway, he spoke at the party. What comes out of the speech of the honourable Member is that the Portuguese, after hearing what they have just heard, must be afraid, must be very afraid.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u202	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u203	I will finish, Mr. President. Apparently, things don't go too bad, when the Socialist Party is ruling, the problem is later. The problem is the bill you have to pay! The problem is the costs that this party announced here by you Ex.a will have for all of us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u204	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u205	...and I just hope the costs are lower than those we had to pay from 2011 onwards. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u206	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies Paula Santos and Carlos Abreu Amorim, I thank the questions that have raised me. Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim, I don't think you heard me well. I didn't go to the rostrum to make a proclamation of a set of intentions. Don't! I'm asking the ladies. Members who, from my intervention, realize that they are facts, are measures that have already been approved. [[P.S. and BE Mariana Mortagua's deputy.]] The increase in minimum wage is a reality today. The replacement of the wage cuts that you have imposed over these years and that you were preparing to maintain during this legislation are already being restored. The increase in social minimums, or the resumption of social minimums guaranteed to people, which have led thousands of poor elderly people in this country to be excluded from access to the solidarity complement for the elderly, is now guaranteed because they are approved measures, Mr. [[P.S. and BE Mariana Mortagua's deputy.]] We're not just talking about intentions. And, Mr President, I am speaking to you about this with the greatest conviction that we are doing our best for the Portuguese. We are not here to say that we want power by power. We're here on our own agenda. You left Portugal in the social bankruptcy, you left poverty. [[P.S.P., BE Mariana Mortágua and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They left poverty! [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u208	That's the party you've had for four years. It was the poverty party! It was the unemployment party! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] It was the Portugal impoverishment party that the Portuguese don't want to have again. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u209	And, honourable Member, the austerity policy was made by the governments on the right and then by Mr. Prime Minister Passos Coelho, who is here today in this room. It was made by choice. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u210	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u211	There was another way! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] There was another way and the gentlemen. Members decided to triple the austerity dose that was foreseen in the Initial Memorandum.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u212	Mrs. Deputy, it's been too long. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u213	I am done now, Mr President, but I do not want to fail to reply to Mrs Paula Santos. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, we are here, but at the beginning of this year, to say that we want to strengthen the social state that you have so badly damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u214	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u215	So the new year is also a year of hope for all Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u216	I assume I still have one more minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u217	You have, yes, Mrs. Deputy. I'm sorry, I was overzealous.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u218	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim that fear has been what you have installed in Portuguese society for the past four years. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] It was the time of uncertainty, it was the time of fear, it was the time to know that they had no money, no employment, to meet their needs. And so today we have about 30 % of child poverty in Portugal, which is unacceptable in a decent state, as we want it to be Portugal. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u219	Madam Member, I regret the excess of zeal on the part of the Bureau. For a political statement, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European system that imposed Banif's sale is the same as tomorrow will ultimately require the privatisation of the General Deposit Box. And everything will be done in the name of the supposed interest of Portuguese taxpayers. It was on behalf of the Portuguese taxpayers that the European Commission found it illegal to maintain EUR 1100 million in Banif, injected by the then PSD Government / CDS. It was on behalf of the Portuguese taxpayers that rejected Banif's possibility of integration into the General Deposit Box and rushed a forced sale. It was then, on behalf of the interest of the Portuguese taxpayers, that the European Commission imposed not only the loss of 1100 million, which were already Banif, but also an additional injection of 2512 million euros. And there are those who in this process ask themselves, but what happened here? How did the hole in Banif grow so much? Oh, my God! It is difficult at this stage to make an exact calculation of everything that has cost the deliberate inertia of the previous government or the precipitation of the events of the last days. But one thing seems obvious: if we take the last accounts published by Banif as moderately realistic, we will conclude that the amount injected is greater than the hole detected in the Bank. Those who bought Banif took a bank that is not only clean as they still have money left to recapitalize their new owner. And that is how, always on behalf of the interests of the Portuguese taxpayers, the European authorities imposed State aid on Portugal to Santander, the second largest European private bank. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Follow now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the New Bank. The New Bank is larger and more important than Banif. Whoever stops it will determine much of the credit policy for the country's business sector, without speaking on the huge network of agencies or its employees. It is misleading who believes that the resolution of BES was made without recourse to public capital. The EUR 3900 million that allows the New Bank to remain in operation today is a state loan to the Resolution Fund, which, until proven otherwise, does not have a date of return. The Banco de Portugal did not learn from yesterday's mistakes. The rush to speed up the New Bank is, in itself, a obvious factor of devaluation that will only benefit its buyer. But we also know that not all the bad ideas about the financial management of the country are the work of Governor Carlos Costa. It is that even before the regulator announced the immediate relaunch of the sale of the New Bank, the European Commission already congratulated the national authorities for the excellent initiative taken. And all of this happened in the face of the most committed silence of the Portuguese Government. More than the moment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end it is the substance that matters. Brussels is in a hurry to sell the Bank because that's what best meets its goal. in the New Bank, as in Banif, the plan is to focus the property of the Portuguese bank on the hands of the major European financial groups, always clear! , on behalf of the best interest of the Portuguese taxpayers. And after that, we, here, Members and Members, political and ruling parties, civil society and civic movements, who have entertained ourselves to discuss what went wrong, whether they were the moral failures of Ricardo Salgado or the supervisory errors of the Banco de Portugal. After that, what really matters, which is the control over credit policy, the determination of the financing strategy of economic activity, will be everything already irremediably out of our hands. And as the Assembly of the Republic dwindled from the effective power to control finance in this country, it is democracy that becomes poorer. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the state to which the Portuguese bank arrived — a bank inflated by debt, focused on short-term gains, highly exposed to the real estate delirium — is not unique in Europe. This is precisely the result of European policies on deregulation and liberalization of the financial system over the past 20 years. What concerns the European institutions is not the fragility of the Portuguese banks, the need for recapitalisation and, more than that, the need for strategic reorientation. European institutions are not so concerned about the problem of injecting public money into the bank. Until now, taxpayers' expenses for saving banks have only been taken into account when requiring more austerity to pay the public debt, which has not stopped increasing every time another bank was saved. What is on the table is the strengthening of the single European financial market, dominated by large economic groups, at the expense of the absorption of national banks sanitized with public money. And it is precisely for this reason that Banif should never have been handed over to Santander and that the New Bank cannot be privatized. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from now on — perhaps in a short time now — the General Deposit Box may also need a normal recapitalisation to meet the regulatory requirements in terms of capital ratios. at that time, the European Commission will not delay knocking on the door of Mr Bento to inform us that the Community rules do not allow the shareholder State to inject money into the public bank and therefore always on behalf of the Portuguese taxpayers, it is necessary to initiate the privatisation of the Box. at this moment, as at this moment, we will all be called upon to decide not only between a public or private bank, but if the country, if Portugal, accepts the dismantling of its banking system to deliver it entirely to external interests. on that day, as now, as today, the response of the Left Block will be a round and round « no ». [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u221	Madam Member, there are three entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u222	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u223	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u224	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I and the Socialist Party, essentially share the principles that you proclaimed in your speech. Allow me, Madam Member, to say that what we found on Banif was not beautiful. It wasn't nice and it's not nice. And on this subject, I would like to remind the honourable Member that we were beginning to be amazed at what we found and that we ended up outraged by what we discovered. Mrs Deputy, the PSD/CDS government had the opportunity to resolve the issue. It has had long months to resolve Banif's issue, since January 2013. They did, imagine, eight restructuring processes. And, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we both know that if we do a restructuring process and it is not accepted, we make a second restructuring process and it is also not accepted, in the third, of two: or we call to ask how this should be done or, then, it is a clear demonstration of total incompetence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u225	Therefore, Mrs. Member, here are effective responsibilities of the PSD Government / CDS. But there's more! After failing other restructuring processes, Banif also failed to sell voluntarily. It clearly failed the voluntary sale of Banif and, in the middle, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, still hid what was going on, because they wanted to show the country a clean exit in full electoral campaign, for absolutely electoral reasons. Therefore, on 16 December there were only two ways, Mrs Deputy, or the way of the resolution, as the Socialist Party submitted, or the liquidation of the Bank. And, as we both know, the Bank's liquidation would mean the collapse of regional economies, the collapse of the economies of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which had a significant exposure to Banif. So, Mrs Deputy, I ask: what, for the Left Block and for the Member, is the solution that we should follow?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u226	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u227	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, her speech was the most powerful criticism of this legislation, coming from this bench, the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u228	And it is interesting to note that, day after day, the Left Block wants to be with the government in nice things, but it wants to be irresponsible for all management. And here is a clear sign: you sometimes have to see whether they are part of the coalition that the Government of Portugal supports, whether they are part of the majority that supports the Government of Portugal, which has promised political stability to Portugal, or if they vote one thing every day and say another so that they can please both the PS and your electorate at the same time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u229	They define themselves and decide, because what is not possible is to promise the country and Mr. President of the Republic stability and, at the same time, every time they speak, to make profound criticisms of the management that is done by the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by you. The second question, Mrs Deputies, is the stability of the financial system. The stability of the financial system is fundamental to any economy, because it moves with families and businesses. Now the stability of the financial system was on the edge of the complete break-up in 2011. In addition, EUR 12 billion was provided for in the assistance programme negotiated by the Socialist Party to help the financial system. And today, we all know, regardless of the difficulties that persist, the stability of the entire financial system is completely different, because it is more solid than it was, and it was good for them to recognize it. There are problems. Of course they persist, and there are different ways to cope. at the time of the PSD / CDS government, we tried not to be the taxpayers called to pay, that it was the financial system to do so - see the case with BES. When the Socialist Party is ruling — and we have the "BPN case" and we have the "Banif case" — first, the government puts the taxpayers to pay and then it will clear up responsibilities. These are two distinct ways of being and addressing these problems. Third question, Mrs Deputies: on this subject...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u230	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u231	I shall conclude, Mr President. On this matter, who shouldn't, don't fear! And because we are not afraid of what has happened, we are asking Parliament to deliberate on the setting up of the committee of inquiry — in fact, we have already proposed it and I am sure that your party will support us. And we also call for an independent audit, from a technical point of view, and we are sure that your party will also support us, because those who should not be afraid, and we are not afraid of what happened. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u232	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u233	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u234	Mr President, it is for an inquiry on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u235	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u236	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco said here that the Socialist Party had an intervention in Banif different from that in BES, he asked the Bureau to distribute to Mr Duarte Pacheco the law of 1 January 2015, transposition of the BRRD ( Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive ), which was submitted by the Government supported by the party to which Mr Duarte Pacheco belongs, because it explains in detail why Banif's solution could not be equal to that of BES... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... and why the Resolution Fund could not have a greater share in the solution found.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u237	Mr President, the Bureau will do its best to distribute something that is public knowledge, but in any case...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u238	Apparently it's not! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u239	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u240	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Mariana Mortágua on the subject she has brought us with this political statement and also on some of the aspects she has focused on, including the fact that the CFP bench identifies itself, in fact, we are going further in relation to some of the issues she has identified with regard to the role of the European Union, European policy, the taxes that have been placed on Portugal and the results it has had. It is clear — and this is not now, nor is it just the new rules of the European Union and of the banking union, it already results from the whole European construction—that this whole construction is sending, not only in the financial sector but mainly in it, the groups to a monopoly in which small groups are swallowed by the big ones and, in the case of the financial system, with the active assistance of the State, using the money in this case of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u242	I take advantage of this because Mr Duarte Pacheco spoke before me, to remind you that in Portugal, PSD and CDS scrupulously complied with these guidelines in the 'BES case' and were perhaps even further in the 'Banif case'. This is because if in the « BES case » they saved a bank with the taxpayer's money, but still, the bank, today, in the case of the New Bank, is still in time to apply a public control, in the « Banif case » they just threw money there and just resigned from any kind of control, despite the state holding most of the capital, by choice precisely the PS and PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u243	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u244	Therefore, in this context, purely and simply, they simply gave up money to an administration that the story proved to be revealing the interests of its depositors, its customers, the public interest, which has been reflected in a huge rumbage in the pocket of those we usually call "the taxpayer", as if they were all the same thing, that is, it has been reflected in the pockets of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u245	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u246	Mr President, I will end with three or four very quick questions. Madam Member, is it not time for us to assume that, for more layers of regulation that we will take over the problem, it will not be resolved until the public control of the bank is taken? Is it not true that there is inconsistencies between the rules of the European Union and the national interest, particularly between the use of the framework, which we now call « euro », and the national interest, in particular between banking union and national interest?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u247	Please conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u248	And is it time for the Government of the Republic to take the Portuguese side, take up this confrontation and take up the defence of the national interest? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u249	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u250	Mr President, I begin by thanking the various questions that have been raised and will answer by order. With regard to the Member of the Socialist Party, I must say that we have no doubt that the inertia of the previous government in the case of Banif... In fact, I would like to disagree, she was not just incompetence, she was competent in accordance with a strategy designed and deliberate to create a clean exit, at any cost. And, in this case, it cost what it cost to push a problem with the belly and, as time went by, not only the Bank's balance sheet was deteriorating as the possibilities available were decreasing, and this did harm the extent and capacity of the State to intervene in the replies on Banif. So it was irresponsible, it is true, but it was not irresponsible because of incompetence. It was a deliberate irresponsibility in one of the many concealments, which we are still discovering, in order to pretend such a clean exit, such correctness in the accounts, such budgetary discipline, in fact, whatever it is. Of course — and I am sure — that the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which we are going to institute here, and an external audit, which we have also been defending since the first minute, will, on the one hand, allow us to understand what Banif has brought up to this situation and, on the other hand, make an assessment of the costs of dragging this process all the time. Mr Duarte Pacheco, it is not true that the Left Block criticizes everything the government does.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u251	The nominations didn't criticize!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u252	The Left Block not only often agrees and praises the measures taken by this Government, which have emerged by negotiation and agreement with the Left Block, in particular all income replacement measures. That is why I do not think it is a very fair criticism, just as I do not think it is a very fair criticism to say that the Left Block says one thing and votes another. We voted against the Reforming Budget and now we are demonstrating against Banif's recapitalization to sell to Santander, because we think it is, in practice, Santander's recapitalization with Portuguese public money. And I do not understand how Mr Duarte Pacheco can agree with this! I do not understand, honestly, how someone can afford and think that this model defends national interest! But it also seems to me that we are talking about financial stability and responsibilities, and therefore the PSD and the CDS, which accompanied the entire process of the coming of the troika to Portugal, have to explain why for four years the troika has been stationed in this country, having as a pillar financial stability, and has only the troika turn its backs and leave the country to two banks go to bankruptcy: the BES and Banif. Now, this is incomprehensible to those who said that in 2011 the banking system was very fragile, but that in 2014 the banking system was much more healthy and that the troika did much to save the banking system. It seems to us that we are far away from this! It is also true that there is no big difference in how to save banks: PSD and CDS injected 1100 million into Banif — and this has already been mentioned by Mr Miguel Tiago — they washed their hands, left an administrator and did not want to know! I don't think it's a very responsible position.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u253	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u254	I will finish, Mr. President. in the same way the money that allowed intervention in BES is public money, say what is said. That's why, sirs. Members, there is no logical consistency between the positions on the one hand to liberalise the bank, to deregulation the sector, to deliver the sector to large international financial conglomerates and, on the other, to say that banking stability is being defended, because these are not compatible objectives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u255	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u256	I conclude by saying that the fundamental problem is this: European strategic interests for the financial system and for the capital market are contrary to national strategic interests at the moment. We have to decide which side we are on, and this is the final question left to us. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u257	With these answers we end item 1 of our agenda, political declarations. Before we move on to the next point, I ask the Secretary to report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u258	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau and draft resolutions 65 / XIII have been accepted ( 1 ). a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate extinction of the Algarve Hospital Centre and the appreciation of the Hospital de Faro and the Hospitalar Centre of Barlavento Algarvio, with decentralized management, strengthening them with new professionals, improving and creating new valences and services (BE) and 66 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeal the Cambridge ( BE ) case. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u259	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point 2 of our agenda with discussion of petition No 513 / XII ( 4. a ) — Submitted by Monica Sofia Correia Barbosa and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic that the presence of the father or companion in the scheduled cesareans and considered at low risk be ensured in all units of the National Health Service where children are born. Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the signatories of this civic initiative, to us, which is highly worthy. They require signatories to be provided with conditions for the presence of a significant person during a scheduled cesarean section of a non-increased risk, if interested persons so wish, in all institutions of the National Health Service. The fact that this initiative is aimed at individualizing and thus humanizing health care, particularly at such a significant moment as childbirth is relevant to us, CDS. in this context we want to remember Law No. 15 / 2014 on the conditions of follow-up of pregnant women during childbirth. This law constitutes a useful and socially relevant compilation of support for maternity and the rights and duties of users of the National Health Service. However, there have been erroneous interpretations of the text of this law which has led to some misunderstandings that distort and distort the spirit of that law. For this reason, it has not been assured to those who wish to do so, the presence and follow-up in all the institutions of the National Health Service where cesareans are practiced. We would like to stress the importance of monitoring labor in the hospital and the health gains for the child and for the mother who have been conquered over the last decades with this practice. We insist and stress: delivery is not performed with safe conditions and by properly trained health professionals. Having said this, and reiterating the spirit of Law No. 15 / 2014, we understand that some of its points can be clarified which have been provided for a distorted application and, in this sense, ensure, to those who wish, a follow-up in the scheduled cesarean sections. thus and defending a concerted action with the bodies responsible for this area in the Ministry of Health, the CDS has already introduced a legislative initiative in order to carry out the object of this petition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u261	For this initiative, we look forward to the support of the other banks, and in this way, we will surely dignify and improve the health care provided in the institutions of the National Health Service that we all defend. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u262	Mr António Sales spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me a special compliment in this first intervention in the plenary and the desire of 2016 full of initiatives that have a positive impact on the lives of our citizens. I would like, now, to welcome the initiative of civil society and petitioners on this matter. Application No 513 / XII ( 4. a ) aims to defend the presence of companions in the scheduled cesareans, given the importance that the birth of a child has in the triad parent/ mother/child and the emotional and psychological involvement that this moment provides, as well as the link that is projected for the child's own future, and considering studies that indicate that men who participate in the process of labor are more emotionally involved and present in the lives of children, as well as studies that indicate that parturients with greater emotional support are less likely to develop postpartum depression. Considering the Portuguese legislation and the recommendations of the WHO, which allow the father or the other companion to be present throughout the normal delivery process, considering also the difference in treatment that occurs in many public sector hospitals compared to the private sector, where in the latter the presence of a companion is always possible and in the first instance the access to the operating block is often conditioned ; considering, lastly, that this is difficult to understand, in particular, the case of scheduled cesareans, in which the suspicion of fetal or maternal suffering is excluded, and on the basis that it must be a right of the father to be present from the first moment in the life of the children, as well as a right of the child to have contact with both parents from their birth, the Socialist Party believes that it is a question of humanization of birth in cesareanaries programmed in which the presence of a companion becomes essential, contributing to minimize the negative impact that this type of surgery can produce from a psychological point of view on the woman. It also adds the fact that safety conditions, including physical space, asepticism, respond to unexpected complications during surgery, as well as rules for control and prevention of hospital infection have evolved very favorably in recent years, which allows considerable safety and comfort for those involved in the process. Today it is the grip of modern societies to consider affections as a source of relational development. Making politics is creating affections! Therefore, as a father, as a man and as a physician, I consider the father's right to be involved in the delivery process regardless of its type, ensuring the necessary safety conditions, as well as the proper information and consent of the interveners. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u264	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party begins by welcoming the petitioners present here and all those who have associated with this initiative—more than 4000 citizens have done so. They intend the petitioners who—and I quote— "are assured the possibility of the presence of the father or of companions in the scheduled and low-risk cesareans in all units of the National Health Service where children are born". at the hearing held by the Health Committee, the petitioners also claimed that this presence — and I quote again — «is an opportunity to establish, from the outset, the connection to the baby ». They further stated that although there is legislation allowing such follow-up, it is not carried out in the SNS. They went further and said that — I quote again — « only in three public hospitals is allowed the presence of the father in the operating block». We reiterate today, here, what we have said in the Committee on Health, that is to say, we recognize the importance for pregnant women and for the establishment of the bond with the baby of the presence of a companion and, in this case, taking into account the object of the petition, of the father. We also affirm that the existing legislation already provides for such follow-up and should therefore work towards the implementation and enforcement of such legislation. We have also said, and we have said again today, that if these limitations exist at the level of the premises, because that was what was brought up at the time of the petition, they may indeed be weak, but I cannot but say that, as we did at the time of the hearing — that, if there are such problems, they cause, and the cause is — today in the political statement we have said here — in what were successive policies, particularly the last government, of disinvestment in the SNS and in the specific case of the non-investment of funds for investment and equipment in the units of the National Health Service. Therefore, these problems must be weakened. It is urgent, in fact, to solve them, and that is why we are going to work. We also said, and we reiterate here, that the presence of the companion must comply with a set of rules and the safety of clinical procedures must be ensured. The positions of the CFP on the right to maternity and paternity, as well as the right to follow-up of patients and users in the National Health Service are well known. That is our commitment, that is, that there is in fact an enforcement of this law and that for pregnant women who want to have a companion at the time of delivery this is permitted in order to comply and to implement what is in the legislation. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u266	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u267	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I wish you all a good year. First of all, I would like to welcome the more than 4000 citizens who have subscribed to this petition, in which it is recommended that the presence of a companion in the scheduled cesarean sections be possible. In our view, the petitioners do not want anything that the text of the law no longer gives. Indeed, Law No 15 / 2014, which consolidates the legislation on the rights and duties of the health service user, admits in its Article 16. o, the follow-up of pregnant women during childbirth. Such follow-up may only be carried out in the cases referred to in Article 17. that of the said Law, that is, when, in serious clinical situations, and by express determination of the obstetrician physician, this is considered to be unacceptable and, as well, when the facilities of the health units are not consensual with this presence. And this is precisely the only issue that is raised by the matter party, i.e. the maintenance in the text of Article 17 ( 2 ). what comes from the Act still of 1985 and which may in fact be decontextualized in view of the resources that already exist today and lead to erroneous interpretations, because when we speak in facilities consensual with the presence of the companion, what was intended to be safeguarded was only the privacy of the parturientes. This means, then, that where the said follow-up is not clinically unconsolable and the facilities allow it, the right to the presence of the woman's companion pregnant during childbirth should be guaranteed and also in situations where it is carried out using cesarean, provided that, of course, that is the desire of the parturient. We well know that this occurs more in the private sector than in the SNS, which is not an acceptable situation, in our view, from the point of view of the rights of users and the humanization of health services itself. Indeed, allowing pregnant women to follow up during childbirth in situations of scheduled cesarean women is not only their right, but also a right of the future father and, because you do not say so, also a right of the child who will be born. in fact, this is an intense and unique moment, either from a physical and psychological point of view, which, not uncommonly, takes particular meaning in the life of a family that experiences at the birth of a new member an indissible and profound happiness. And this experience cannot and should not be denied to families. The argument that cesarean birth constitutes a surgical act and, as such, is not compatible with the presence of a companion is only valid, to the extent that, as previously said, clinical reasons deconselhem. in our view must prevail the will of the parturient. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the mother has the right to continuous support during childbirth, support provided by someone who is significant to her and who, in this way, contributes to her own desirable psychological balance, which is why in the last legislation she proposed for this practice and so this is already a reality in three hospitals. It is in this context that the PSD cannot fail to support the claim of petitioners in order to be assured, in the units of the SNS where children are born, the possibility of the presence of the father or companion in the scheduled cesarean sections. It is therefore important that the State seek to create the conditions for this right to be exercised in full, ending an unjustified unequal treatment of women in public and private establishments. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u268	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I respect the petitioners and petitioners who bring this matter to debate and I begin by saying that from the Left Block the individualization and humanization of the National Health Service, the provision of health care is a good practice and is a good way to follow and pursue. This is both valid for cases where one has to resort to health care in a situation of pain, distress or suffering and where having the support of a companion is, by itself, beneficial as emotional support, as is valid, also for these situations of happiness in which a woman needs a companion or a companion at her side or wants to live this moment of childbirth with one or a companion at her side. Therefore, we solidarity and follow the object and purpose of the petition here present. Indeed, the current legislation already provides for monitoring women in delivery situations. However, there are some weaknesses in the current legislation that may occur, even if there is a need for clarification of the legislation itself. There are some public hospitals in Portugal, few, which already allow follow-up in a case of cesarean birth, but there are many others, the overwhelming majority, who do not allow it. And they probably do not allow it because the current legislation says that « in the care units where the facilities are not yet in line with the presence of the companion, and with the protection of privacy invoked by other parturients, this monitoring cannot be done». There is probably a need here for clarification of interpretation because there may be hospitals who interpret that the operating block, by itself, is not an environment where you can admit an assistant, a companion, so I think we should follow and present legislative initiatives to have this clarification. As the Directorate-General of Health itself says, currently the overwhelming majority of operating blocks already guarantee the conditions of individualization of care, already guarantees the privacy conditions of the parturient and therefore guarantees conditions for this follow-up. And it is true that if there are operating blocks where these conditions are not present they should be created to allow this follow-up to the parturient. Therefore, we follow this need for clarification in the legislation, as we also follow the need for some criterion for follow-up in situations of cesarean birth, precisely because we cannot allow there to be risk...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u270	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u271	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, we cannot allow there to be any risk of infection or other risk to the parturient. There must also be some more specific regulation on the criteria of the situation and of the companion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u272	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the next item on our agenda, which is from the joint assessment of petition No 402 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Community Centre for the Fifth of the Count, requesting from the Assembly of the Republic a consensus on the urgency of the construction of the home of the elderly of that Community Centre, and draft resolution No 60 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Construction of a home of elderly people in the parish of Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra, Setúbal district ( PCP ). To present the draft resolution, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the subscribers and petitioners of the petition we are discussing today and who are present here to follow this discussion. The population and the authorities have been fighting and claiming for years the construction of a home of elderly people in Quinta do Conde. The lack of social equipment for the population. Despite the parish of Quinta do Conde, in the municipality of Sesimbra, being quite young, has also a significant elderly population, for which we have to look and to whose needs we have to respond. The construction of an elderly home in Quinta do Conde has already been identified in the Sesimbra Social Development Plan and the lack of social equipment to respond to the needs of the elderly population is an increasingly identified reality that has been worsening over the years. The elderly population has been severely penalized by the policy pursued in recent years by the PSD/CDS government, with cuts in pensions, low reforms, increasing difficulties in access to health and medicines and insisting on privatization options of social equipment. Our Constitution has principles that aim to protect the elderly population and guarantee the right to living conditions with dignity. It is not acceptable for this population, after a lifetime of work, to have contributed to the development of the country, to become unprotected in a more vulnerable phase of their lives. It is in this sense that the CFP accompanies the need for the construction of a home in Quinta do Conde and brings this proposal to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u274	Mr António Carlos Monteiro spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the subscribers of this petition, in particular the Community Centre in Quinta do Conde, who ask for the construction of an elderly home in this same parish. This is already an old story, as was mentioned here. In this regard there is also a statement in 2006 by the Secretary of State for Social Security Pedro Marques, current Minister of the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the Communist Party, that in 2006 he was in a position to fulfill the old dream of the founders of the Community Centre of Quinta do Conde. Let's see if this time the Socialist Party's government is going to keep its word. We know that the social network in Sesimbra identifies, and well, the need for more social responses in this territory, we do not ignore that, in addition to this initiative, there are other initiatives, in particular in terms of childhood—only the League of Friends has this response in the same parish—but the truth is that the PARES programme rejected the proposal in 2001 for lack of a day, having been sent again a project which, as far as we know, was stopped due to the lack of documents. What is important is to consider whether, also having initiatives in this direction in Fernão Ferro, it is possible to reconcile the various needs of homes so that the public supply can be compatible with the possibility of partnerships with private institutions of social solidarity. Having a project of the Communist Party, the issue is essentially in the hands of the Communist Party and the support it gives to this Government of the Socialist Party. Is it part of your book of charges? Do they have the right conditions to solve the problem at the moment? Is it in your hand or are we going to have, in this case, once again, a word given that is not honored? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u276	Even for an intervention, Mrs Sofia Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address for the first time to this House, wishing everyone good year and good work, and I also comply with all the petitioners present here. It is from the general knowledge that demographic evolution in Portugal has been characterized by a gradual increase in the weight of older age groups and a reduction in the weight of the young population, marking the progressive aging of our society. A relevant aspect of aging is the question of physical and psychological dependence that can affect the elderly, requiring specialized care and the need to know what are the most appropriate solutions to give them response and the public practices that are necessary. Elderly and family, when confronted with this reality and with the inability to find adequate solutions within the family environment, view, most of the time, as the only solution, the use of hospitalization in an institution. The lack of this type of social equipment in Quinta do Conde is, for a long time, a reality, referred to in the Sesimbra Social Development Plan the need for the construction of an elderly home in this parish. And although children and their families are sometimes willing to do all they can to support their elderly, hospitalization at home is often the right answer. For PS, it is important to continue to invest in the development of a network of social services and equipment adapted to the reality of each region, of each district, of each municipality, in order to be able to respond to the needs of the elderly population, guaranteeing them a better quality of life. This was a PS priority in the past and continues to be a priority today, so we will try to contribute to its deepening and for this claim to be reassessed. Understanding and welcoming the motivations that justify the mobilization of the inhabitants of Quinta do Conde for the construction of the home of the elderly, any commitment on this claim can only be taken seriously within the framework of a financing programme for the construction of new equipment. The option of the former Government was not to define any programme in this area, which led to the accumulation of needs. It is as if the last four years, in this area, had not existed. Nothing's been done, nothing's been designed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u279	Let us be honest: Quinta do Conde lacks this equipment; the country will need so many others. Let's work so that you can have an answer. It is not possible to recover in a short time the error of the previous Parliament, but certainly with this government, everything will be done to ensure that the answer is given as quickly as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u280	Madam Member, I welcome your first intervention in plenary and I hope that it will be the first of many. For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are a greeting to the petitioners here present and also to the 4411 citizens, of whom I highlight the members of the management of the Community Centre of Quinta do Conde. The civil law they have exercised, when they present this petition, must be emphasized, because it strengthens our democratic system and gives expression to the expectations and aspirations that have brought us here. We also recognize and reveal how important the role of institutions of social solidarity is. The role of the institutions of the social economy is extremely important to support both childhood, the elderly and other areas of society, which citizens generally need. unlike other parliamentary groups, which sometimes look at institutions of social solidarity with some mistrust, we believe in this movement, believe in the work done by the citizens at the level of these institutions, and therefore we welcome and acknowledge — I was rapporteur of this petition and had the opportunity to receive representatives of the Community Centre de Quinta do Conde, the authorates and some petitioners — your resilience to obtaining this claim. I would also like to say that sometimes it is easy to speak, so easy that «words, take them to the wind». It was very easy in 2005 to make promises that all the conditions were met. We, four years ago, didn't make that promise to anyone. And we didn't, because all Portuguese know that we had to honour commitments, that the previous government of the PSD and the CDS was tied to the commitments it had to honour...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u282	Which tie, what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u283	...and had to pay debts that didn't allow us to have money to do works.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u284	They put people in misery because they wanted to!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u285	But still,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u286	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u287	I conclude quickly, Mr President. Even so, the Quinta do Conde health centre was built, it supported childhood through the League of Friends of Quinta do Conde and we are now fully available, as in the past, to support the construction of the new home,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u288	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u289	... because aging with quality is our desire, it is not only a right, it is also a necessity and it is still a guarantee that it is worth aging, because we are all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u290	Also for an intervention, Mrs Domicília Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u291	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome the petitioners and their citizen intervention and initiative on a subject that should call on us all. Population ageing is a reality that requires immediate political attention and adequate responsiveness and accelerates to the specific needs of this population group. The 2011 INE statistics accounted for nearly 400 000 people over 65 years of age living alone in their homes, 25 000 of whom were at risk. It is not difficult to assume that, after four years of austerity measures, which have done no more than aggravate the living conditions of these people, cutting pensions and support and forcing the impoverishment of those who were already poor, this number is now far superior. The lack of support equipment for the elderly population and the inadequacy of existing responses are problems that cannot continue to be postponed. It is for the State to ensure the creation of social equipment to support the family and children, but also for the elderly. There is a lack of support services and equipment and, in particular, the homes of elderly people throughout the country. The parish of Quinta do Conde is no exception. In fact, in this parish, with about 30 000 inhabitants, there is no single public equipment for the reception of elderly people. It cannot be accepted that, after a lifetime of work and contribution to society, people are completely destitute when they need more support and security, voted for forgetfulness, isolation and social exclusion. Let us remember the news from all winters that tell us about so many deaths of elderly people, alone, in their homes. The Left Block therefore considers the urgent strengthening of the public network of homes, day centres and home support for the elderly absolutely essential. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u292	You have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of « The Greens », I would like to begin by welcoming the more than 4500 petitioners who today call on the Assembly of the Republic to require the Government to urgently build an elderly home in Quinta do Conde. The Assembly of the Republic therefore has the opportunity to address this direct recommendation to the Government when, in this case, the CFP Parliamentary Group, and I would also like to welcome it, took an initiative which will be voted on next Friday and which will, in essence, be the message which Parliament will send to the Government, whether or not by reason of this request, on the basis of what will be the vote of the different parliamentary groups. From the Greens, I want to say that we will vote in favour of the draft resolution presented here by the CFP Parliamentary Group, because we are fully aware today as in the past that Quinta do Conde faces a substantial increase in the elderly population and that this increase does not correspond to a set of support equipment and social equipment that can respond to the needs of this population. We cannot continue to realize that people do not need, because people need and do not, in the vast majority, have economic conditions to pay for the only private homes in that locality, and in this sense they are faced with a problem for which the resolution is also our responsibility to contribute, and in which, moreover, the Authority has also committed itself, asking the competent authorities, in particular the Government, to create conditions for the problem to be resolved. And the problem is solved by the construction of an elderly home in Quinta do Conde. the PSD and the CDS would like to say the following: you speak as if, since the 1980s, when the construction of the home is requested, you have never been in the government. And we point the finger at those who have been in the government and who have made commitments that then do not come true, namely, the CDS, the PSD and also the PS. We say that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u294	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u295	I shall finish by saying that we are at a stage where it is important to find the funding that has been requested since the 1980s.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u296	So, now, aren't they in the government too? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u297	Look at the years, the decades you've had in your hand to find the proper funding.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u298	Now that they support the government and the problem appears, they solve it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u299	We must take steps, Mr. Member, but, attention, responsibility now remains here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u300	Here, no, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u301	...it's everyone's and, next Friday, let's see. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-06.u302	With this intervention, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: in point 1, the general debate on the proposal for a law No 7 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, transposing Council Directive ( EU ) No 2015 / 121 of 27 January 2015 amending Council Directive No 2011 / 96 / EU of 30 November 2011 on the common tax system applicable to parent companies and affiliated companies of different Member States. The joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 18 / XIII ( 1 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the defence of additional Community measures for dairy cattle farming ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent initiatives for the defence and sustainability of the national dairy sector following the end of the dairy quota scheme in the European Union ( BE ), and 59 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends promotion of measures to defend national milk production ( CFP ). Point 3 will be the subject of joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 86 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensures the impermissibility and impossibility of execution of the mortgage of the housing property itself and permanently due to tax debts ( amends the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October) ( BE), 87 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Protects the household under tax enforcement procedures ( PS ), 88 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes a system for the impermenability of the housing itself and permanent setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages ( PCP ) and 89 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspends the penhoras and sales of own and permanent housing in tax enforcement processes and determines the application of a regime for impermissibility of such buildings ( CFP ). Finally, the projects of lein. 52 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed together and generally. ( a ) — Bans banks to unilaterally change interest rates and other contractual conditions ( CFP ) and 90 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — I have established the obligation of banking institutions to fully reflect Euribor's decline in credit contracts for housing and consumption ( BE ). We have therefore reached the end of today's session. Before closing, I take advantage to remember that a reception is followed to our Ambassadors in the Noble Hall, for which they are invited. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 57 minutes.]]
