ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein. 94 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the obligation to present the unemployed for the fortnight ( amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006, 3 November ) ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 95 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March ( Law consolidating the legislation on the rights and duties of the health services user ) ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 96 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Thirty-five hours for increased job creation and replacement of rights in civil service ( BE ), and 97 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish 35 hours as a normal working time for workers in public functions ( PS ) ; and draft resolutions 69 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by requalification of the current and construction of new building of the prison establishment of Ponta Delgada ( PCP ), 70 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reversion of the merger process of algarvo hospitals to a single hospital ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 71 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the transitional period provided for in the status of university and technical higher education, ensuring conditions for the completion of the doctorates and correcting injustices ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 72 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Completion of national road reclassification works No 125 ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 73 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Towards the creation of a set of national and Community financial support, tax incentives and social security incentives for foreign producers ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 74 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the Esponnde bar ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 75 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada ( CDS-PP ), 76 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgency in resolving obstacles to the issue of the Vitality Citizen Card ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 77 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the replacement of the discount of the pass sub23, extending it to all higher education students up to 23 years, including ( BE ), which falls to 6 years. the Commission, 78 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Financing of artistic education ( BE ), and 79 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new prison establishment on the island of São Miguel ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u3	Mrs. Members, let us begin our work today, with the joint assessment of draft resolutions 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada ( PSD ), 79 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new prison establishment on the island of São Miguel ( BE ), 69 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by requalification of the current and construction of new building of the prison establishment of Ponta Delgada ( PCP ), and 75 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada ( CDS-PP ). First of all, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor to present the PSD draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to extend a special greeting to Mr. President of the Municipal Chamber of Ponta Delgada and his colleagues, who are attending this plenary session in the galleries. The Regional Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada has been in a situation of almost operational unsustainable for many years, given the scarcity and degradation of its facilities to meet the needs of the island of São Miguel, where more than 60% of the Azorian population reside. We are thus faced with a situation of chronic overcrowding which exceeds 190 %, that is, at the moment it has almost twice as many of the inmates it should receive. This is a building of 1860, whose successive adaptation led to the moment with the maximum of areas converted into comrades, many of them without the minimum conditions of dignity. As you will recall, it was public news, particularly in September 2015, the scarcity and lack of conditions of an old training workshop transformed into a cell, with more than 50 inmates, which led all political parties to solidarity and commit themselves to finding a definitive and convenient solution for the Regional Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada. The Order of Lawyers and the National Union of the Prison Guard Corps have also come to pronounce and carry out initiatives and endeavours to create dignified conditions for residents and professionals of that prison establishment. And, on this occasion, I want to leave a public word recognition to the leadership and to all the professionals who provide service there, for the dedication and effort they have made to minimize the inconveniences of a situation that has been dragged for several decades, going through various governments of different party formations. Unfortunately, in the time of the fat cows, when there was money for pharaonic works, the options were others, of course, with the same money could have been made more and better. The Autonomous Region of the Azores has its own specificities in almost all areas arising naturally from its geography and, in particular, its ultraperipherality and its insularity. To relocate a prisoner to another island or to the continent is deprived of contact with the family, it is to remove him from his environment and ultimately to hinder his rehabilitation as a person and his reintegration as a citizen. Overdue the period of financial adjustment to which we have been subject in the last four years, due to the situation of pre-banking inherited from the former Government of the Socialist Party, it is time to move forward in 2016 with the construction process of a new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada. in this sense, the PSD Parliamentary Group, through the draft resolution we are discussing today, proposes that the State Budget for 2016 consider funds for this purpose. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u5	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Regional Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada is the subject of news for more than 20 years and the news is always the same: the urgent need to be replaced by new, root-based facilities, in order to finally be able to make another use of the current building, which dates back to the 19th century. Since 1976 the construction of new facilities is planned and both the Regional Government and the City Hall of Ponta Delgada have already made available land for this purpose, but nothing has been done. While the construction of the new prison facility continued to be postponed, the current building was voted for abandonment, arguing that it was not worth investing in a building that would soon be abandoned. The only answer that has been so far was the transfer of prisoners out of the island and away from their families. The Regional Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada was designed at other times to accommodate a maximum of 110 people and under conditions that do not reflect at least what is today considered to be a minimally dignified accommodation, because it has a constant population that surrounds almost twice that number. São Miguel has a high rate of detention, higher than the national average — 450 per 100 000 inhabitants, while the national average is 129 per 100 000 inhabitants — still 75 % of the crime of the Autonomous Region of the Azores recorded, precisely on the island of São Miguel, which makes prisoners from São Miguel displaced on the continent or even Madeira. Those who can remain in Ponta Delgada, and can therefore enjoy the right to be visited by family members, live not only in degrading conditions as extremely dangerous, which naturally extend to professionals who develop functions in that same Establishment, i.e. 53 prison guards and administrative, health, education, etc. , and to anyone who travels there for visiting purposes or for any other purpose. Mostly as a result of the bad state of the sawmills, but probably due to the very age of the materials and the proximity of the sea, from the top of the walls, pieces of stone and mortar fall into areas of great circulation. Many inmates live in comrades in conditions that can only be defined as unimaginable, reaching one of them to lodge, recurrently, about 50 inmates, being impressive the scarcity of the physical space available to each of them, not to mention the miserable state of furniture, the floor and the walls themselves. It is clear that in the premises of these prisoners, of very diverse ages and with a very differentiated criminal record, are obliged to live very closely. It is not difficult to see all the problems that such a situation entails, both in terms of health and safety and the possibility of an effective individual re-education aimed at their reintegration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u8	The Regional Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada is a flagrant problem both in terms of security and in terms of respect for the most basic human rights. This establishment should of course be replaced by another one and already several times the CFP has made this proposal in the context of State budgets. However, since this solution is absolutely unacceptable, it must be considered that its immediate realization will always require a number of years, during which the existing building cannot be abandoned, under the penalty of very serious situations. The construction of a new prison establishment and essential improvement works that guarantee at least the safety and minimum dignity of those who are living and working in the existing building have the same urgency, are both unacceptable. Even considering the decision is made...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u9	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u10	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. I just want to say that, even though I have already made the decision to build a new prison establishment in São Miguel, it is obviously necessary that this decision be accompanied by the realization of conservation and maintenance works of the current building. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u11	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The construction of a new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada is an ancient reality and is a pressing reality and it has long been claimed by both the prison population and the forum professionals. And from now on, I leave a compliment to the professionals of the Regional Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada because of the effort and dedication they have had, in recent years, to their service, to the prison population and to the population in general. The news of its overcrowding is known and also old, as well as the news of the lack of dignity to which some of the prisoners are voted. There is a problem of human rights, which everyone knows and recognizes, in the chain of Ponta Delgada. Much because of the draft resolutions that we are discussing today, the government has pressed to announce its construction. Good! The question here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to know whether this announcement does not again represent the chronicle of the death of an announced chain. It is good not to forget three facts: first, the conditions of the Ponta Delgada chain and the urgency of its construction are not new, because the PS met them, announced the start of the project, launched the first stone in the summer of 2010 and then did not advance. Curiously, at the same time, the PS government decided to move forward with the Angra chain of Heroism, also an old project, but less old and much less necessary than the Ponta Delgada project. The decision is not understood and the result is in sight.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u14	The former government, consisting of the CDS and PSD, faced with the bankruptcy inherited from the PS Government in 2011, had to halt several projects, some megalomanics and unnecessary, but unfortunately also the necessary ones. However, he was already considering the best time to start the construction work of the new chain of Ponta Delgada. It was interrupted in this work for the reasons that we all know very well. The PS, who has been in an energetic race to undo all that the previous government has done and to restore, in a hurry, everything that was already being responded gradually and prudently by the previous government. He is now having an attitude that is important and that is to be welcomed. It is to greet the PS government, when it agrees with the right benches and decides to continue the work that was already started; it is a work that the PSD and the CDS had already started, it is a work that was already being studied and it is a work to which the PS now decides to continue. Reitero : all right! What we hope is that we do not want again because of errant and irresponsible policies, such as the policies of the past. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u15	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada is an example of what should not exist in our country. It is a 19th century building that houses 195 inmates, when it has a plot planned for 110 inmates, and in one space it has 50 of these inmates share it. And for this reason it is shown as well as the public complaints made, for example, by the Order of the Advocates, by the National Union of the Prison Guard Corps, by the Block of the Left, repeatedly also, are absolutely true. It is an indignity and it is a stumbling block to human rights the existence of that chain, the existence of that prison establishment. PSD and CDS have now made interventions, as if they had discovered the powder, as if suddenly they had perceived the inhumanity that exists in the Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada, and as if, over four years, they had not themselves in the government, denied the urgency that they are here claiming.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u18	It is a quite clear embarrassment, in the interventions of PSD and CDS, but it is an absolute rejection of who, having been in government, has not solved this hot problem. [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u19	Ah, but now with the PS everything is solved!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u20	He told us the PSD even, in his intervention, that it would be disproposed and uncovered if there were the solution to send to another island those prisoners who today are in the Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada. We were told that this could call into question their reintegration and that it would be another factor of inhumanity to add to the existing inhumanity. For it is true, but that was the intention of the PSD and the CDS, publicly recognized and that it shows well the inhumanity of those parties when they were in government and that even though they suffered the electoral defeat and now they are no longer in government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The solution to this problem could already be in progress. Even recently, in the context of the speciality of the 2015 State Budget, for example the departure of the troika and already after the announced beginning of the end of the budget problem in Portugal, the Block of the Left brought this debate to the Assembly of the Republic and made a proposal to ensure that the construction process of Ponta Delgada was urgently started. What happened? How did PSD and CDS, which today have initiatives in this regard, vote on this one year ago? They voted against it! PSD and CDS deny the human rights response to those who now lack them. So now is the moment of truth, it is now that one sees who has two faces: who, being in government, says one thing and does one thing and who, when he comes to the opposition, starts to say the opposite again! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u21	It is the demonstration of the discharge of the PSD and CDS and it is the demonstration of how they are only next to the problems to solve them when they are interested in winning some vote, when they are interested in obtaining some electoral advantage. It's true, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS! It is true that the prison establishment will be taken forward, will be built, by pressure from the Left Block, by pressure from other parties that now support the government, but against the will of the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u23	...that if they were in the government, they wouldn't build.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u24	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u25	And so the approval of the draft resolutions will not be good news for PSD and CDS, because it is the demonstration of their irresponsibility when they were in government and their release now, who are in opposition! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u26	For an intervention, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For a long time, especially in the development of my adolescence, I imagined that our prison establishments, particularly what exists in Ponta Delgada, would be something similar to the medieval dungeons, as in the films I then saw, filled with cruelty and an anti-human regulatory rigidity. In a second phase, however, I went from this idea to the contrary, imagining that, in the light of modern law and conviction, prisoners lived in a family environment, work, without other problems of experience, which obviously did not result from a mitigated and necessary deprivation of liberty and the consequent limitation of the physical space that involved them. Yes, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, only recently did I realize that none of these ideas I had retained corresponded to reality. in the work visit that I made to the regional prison establishment a few weeks ago, visit what allowed me, in that prison establishment, to visit all their respective spaces, I saw how I left to wish all its own structure and conception, even the social nature of the work that is possible there to develop. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: After some ingenuities, these findings could have been made today in this Parliament, but in fact they were made by me, as a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the Azores, 34 years ago, precisely on 18 June 1982. From then on, the space in question deteriorated, overcrowding made cohabitation of inmates unbearable, prevented any occupational or pedagogical activity of rehabilitation or reintegration. That is why, in the act of presenting my candidacy, in the last elections, I made the commitment to build the new establishment. That is why the then candidate Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, did the same. And that is what has led the already Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, to reiterate this commitment here in this Parliament, to reiterate it with the Socialist Members elected by the Azores and also, a few days ago, to reiterate it with the President of the Regional Government. And that is what allows this action to be referred to in the State Budget for 2016 forecast documents, especially since there is no dossier in the Ministry of Justice on this matter, nor is there any work done, except for some sporadic and occasional contacts. It is not therefore up to us to vote in favour of all the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u28	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u29	We simply did not present one because it seemed to us, at least, eccentric, that we would recommend to the current government to do what it announced it would do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u30	And worse it seemed to us that whoever could have done it in the last four years, such as the PSD and the CDS, come now and do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u31	For a second intervention, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to tell Mr. Member of the Left Block that the decision to build the Angra Prison Establishment of Heroism or, better, the third island is about the time of Eng. José Socrates, and therefore you have to revisit your files to understand who made the decision. On the rest of the speeches, I would say, in general, the following: of announcements, that is, "of good intentions, is hell full! », we must move from words to acts. And the first act that is required is to approve in this House the draft resolution submitted by the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u33	Also for a second intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This new majority is a curious majority in all aspects: in form and content. You are so full of yourself, that sometimes you lose the notion of what you are saying—I am sorry to tell you this! The Left Block has just told us that it is because of the Left Block that the construction of the new Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada will advance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u35	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u36	And the Left Block knows very well—I repeat, you know very well! — that the former Government had replied to it that the construction of the said establishment was already being evaluated. And so it's good to know that things aren't exactly how they want to look. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u37	In addition, it is also necessary to be aware that the Angra Prison Establishment of Heroism was built by the PS government and completed by the PSD/CDS government when it was more pressing, as everyone here is unanimous in stating, the construction of the Ponta Delgada Prison Establishment. So you don't understand what the decision was! We're still the same. Why did they decide to build one and not another, when one was more pressing than the other? Oh, my God! The PS, on the other hand, clearly announces the construction of the Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada—well, I already said so. We would like to know - and we shall see - it in the State budget - which heading, in particular, will be laid down for this construction. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] We'll be here to evaluate and check if, again...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u38	I appreciate your conclusion, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u39	I really am concluding, Mr President. As I said, we will be here to assess and verify if, once again, this is not an intention that will go down and frustrated again, as has happened in the past. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u40	Mrs. Members, having concluded the debate on draft resolutions Nos 49, 79, 69 and 75 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), which included the first point on our agenda, we moved on to the second point, which consists in the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 18 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens ), and 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replies 35 hours per week as a normal period of work in public service by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ( CFP ) to Bill 180 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the duration of the normal working period of workers in public functions in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ), and of the projects of lein. 96 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Thirty-five hours for increased job creation and replacement of rights in civil service ( BE) and 97 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish 35 hours as a normal working time for employees in public service ( PS ). For an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor, for which he has four minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we know, the former PSD/CDS government, in its fury against whom it works and in the midst of so much injustice, forced public administration workers to work more 1 hour a day and 5 hours a week, without any salary increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u42	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u43	In the face of this horrendous injustice, The Greens, who, from the outset, opposed the claim of the PSD/CDS government that, in addition to other negative aspects, put people working on the table, consider that the time has come to respect the employees of the Public Administration, regardless of the nature of their employment linkage, as a way to avoid discrimination between workers. Today, in view of the new parliamentary framework, and once the Portuguese put the right in the right place, we are able to remove one more of the many injustices that PSD and CDS imposed on those who work. It was in this context that the Greens scheduled the debate, which we are now doing, and which essentially aims to restore 35 hours of work per week for the people who work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u45	And today we have scheduled this debate because the Greens believe that it is necessary to respect the right to rest of the people and create conditions that enable the people who work, reconcile their professional life with their family life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u46	All right! [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u47	This, as we know, was of little interest to the former PSD/CDS government because its concerns were always focused on other interests and other values, people were practically reduced to mere parts at the service of markets. But we do not stay here: the decision of the PSD/CDS Government was still a serious violation of the right to collective bargaining, a right also enshrined in our Constitution, which, as you know, had the attention of the PSD/CDS Government that we all know. As the Greens denounced at the time, with this increase in working time, the PSD/CDS government promoted a true and deep social backwardness and advanced with another clear and manifest injustice, since this increase in working time was not accompanied by their respective, and deserved and fair, wage increase,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u49	... implying, yes, a substantial reduction in wages, since workers began working longer and taking exactly the same salary. It's just making accounts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u50	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u51	It was even a regression to the 19th century laws, in particular to the law of 23 March 1891, which had set the working period of 8 hours per week for some workers. Worse still was the fact that the increase in working time had been reflected not only in rising unemployment, since the services of the Public Administration had fewer people to carry out the same tasks, but also in the efficiency and quality of public services provided to citizens, because it implied the need for fewer workers, raising unemployment rates, increasing the levels of fatigue and reducing the levels of motivation of workers. The Greens consider that the time has come to return to the people rights removed by the former PSD/CDS Government, the time has come to restore 35 hours of weekly work and to walk to respect the people who work, to respect the Constitution, with the replacement of the due social, economic and cultural rights enshrined in it, and, therefore, here is, on the initiative of the Greens, the possibility of now returning to 35 hours a week. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u52	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the workers and trade union organisations present here, to follow up this debate. Today we are discussing this because the struggle of the workers and the will of the Portuguese imposed a defeat on the PSD/CDS government and demanded a way of valuing work and social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u55	In 2013 the PSD / CDS government imposed on employees of the Public Administration the increase in working hours for 40 hours per week, imposed more hours and less wages, violated the right to articulation between family and professional life, violated the right to paid work and also the right to collective bargaining, vetoing hundreds of ACEP ( Collective Agreement of Public Employer ), which repossessed 35 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u56	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decision to increase working hours represented an increase in working hours in 20 free hours per month.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u59	Between 2010 and 2015, public administration workers lost, on average, 28, 4 % of the value / time of work. With this, only in 2015 did more than 150 million free hours of work. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the history of reducing working hours is an integral and fundamental part of the struggle of workers. in this claim lies the proclamation of the Day of the Worker and also of the International Day of Women. And, in the Public Administration, since 1998 which are established 35 hours a week. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u60	Mr President, Members : In response to a commitment and a fair demand for workers, the Portuguese Communist Party today proposes the replacement of 35 hours of work for all workers in the Public Administration. We also made the commitment to, at a later stage, as we did in the previous Parliament, to submit a proposal to progressively reduce the working period in the private sector to 35 hours a week, without loss of remuneration or other rights. As for workers in the Public Administration, all of them, regardless of the contract, with today's discussion, the vote on Friday and the final convergence that will be achieved, see the way open to, in the short term, be applied 35 hours a week.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the elimination of injustice, it is another step towards the valorisation of work and workers, their lives, the social functions of the State and public services. [[PCP, Os Verdes and BE Member José Manuel Pureza applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u63	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has long defended, and has already presented here several times, the reduction in working hours, both for the public and for the private sector. And he did it for several reasons: firstly, because it is more than proven that there is no link between increasing working hours and increasing productivity, quite the contrary. And, therefore, long hours of work are a vision of the past about work. It is also proven that the reduction in working hours is an effective way of creating jobs. In fact, this was the case in 1996, when the working time increased from 44 hours to 40 hours, in which there was a net job creation effect of 5 %. It is one of the most effective ways of combating unemployment. It is called'sharing work', the most normal thing in the modern world, in which the technological means force us also to adapt working relationships and adapt labour rights. If reducing working hours is a sign of the future, of future rights and of work relations of the future, then we can only conclude that increasing working hours is a sign of return to the past. That's exactly what the right did in the last government, it was a return to the past. In the 21st century, the right-wing government defeated a right that had been conquered in the 20th century. And, therefore, what the Left Block proposes today is to reverse what the right has done, against all and against all, even against collective bargaining, against the autonomy of local power, has put into the drawer more than 300 collective bargaining contracts that respected 35 hours of work and which, in fact, the rule of law has ended up being obliged, too, to recognise. I do not want to say that the Left Block abandons the reduction of working hours to the private sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u65	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u66	...it only wants, at this moment, to restore a stolen right...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u67	Stolen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u68	... and resume a path of rights and of the future, in which the right will put us an interval, a return to the past. in this respect we are not yet innovating in rights, we are merely restoring a stolen right.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u69	Stealing what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u70	The law of 48 hours of work was indeed a decrease in the salary of public servants, as has already been said, adding to so many other punishments that austerity imposed on public servants, as is the case, too, of the law of requalification. Therefore, the 40-hour law must end as quickly as possible. I would just like to draw attention to a question which is very important for the Left Block: you cannot have to work in the Public Administration or in any public sector two workers who, despite having different links, have the same functions, the same mission, who fulfill the same orders, but with a different timetable. Therefore, when we recover the 35 hours of work, it is necessary to ensure that, with the difference of bonds that unfortunately exist, there is no inequality of rights, in terms of working hours, to be side by side with workers with the same functions, as is the case with nurses, but that, because they have a different bond, they are at risk of working 40 hours and others work 35 hours. Another point for which we want to draw attention is that in this whole process collective bargaining is respected, as in fact the right has not done so. Let us begin to respect collective bargaining in all matters relating to working hours. A headline came out today, in a newspaper, saying the 35-hour watch is late. That's right! Many of the forms of application of this 35-hour law have to be negotiated, they have to be seen, but there is a clear sign that you have to leave this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u71	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u72	... of this Parliament for the civil service workers and their representatives, which we also greet. There is a clear sign that you have to leave this Parliament now, which is a sign of the future, is a sign of recovery of rights, a sign that this country will again have 35 hours of work for the public sector, as is the right of these workers. And you're going to do it quickly. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u73	To present the PS bill, Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents its bill No. 97 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), because it aims to return workers to a right of unquestionable justice and which corresponds to an electoral commitment which has always taken place. In addition, the Socialist Party's programme shows the return to the 35-hour normal working-time scheme for public employees without entailing increases in overall staff costs. This is certainly a measure that fits our priorities. And even during the right-wing government, while they had this possibility, we applied this regime to various authorities, especially then the then President of the City Council of Lisbon, Antonio Costa, also applied the 35 hours of work in the Authority to which he presided. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Members of the Socialist Party also tried to oppose this measure by resorting to the Constitutional Court, invoking the unconstitutionality of this rule. It was not possible to take the arguments put forward by the Socialist Party and the workers were forced, without any compensation, to reduce their working hours for 35 hours. In fact, the contempt and contempt of the former majority by the workers was visible and it is our concern, well known in this month and half, we restore the dignity of the workers. That is why, in addition to this bill that we now present, this month and a half we have already presented several measures to defend workers and which I will quickly synthesize: the increase of the national minimum wage to 530 €, as it will reach 650 000 Portuguese; the replacement in wages of cuts made that VV. For example, the phased reduction in wage cuts with total extinction in October 2016 ; the reduction of the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity) by 50 % in 2016 and throughout 2017 ; the phased extinction of the overtax of IRS; the replacement of social minimums; and the increase in pensions. All of this is measures that aim to restore dignity to workers, as we have said before. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] With this measure, we intend to again value dialogue and dialogue on a responsible and realistic basis, seeking consultation between workers and service leaders, in a serene process of implementing the measure, which avoids — and it is important to stress — disruptions in the functioning of services, because we cannot forget that there are permanent operating services that are not compatible with an abrupt reduction in working hours. If we think of services such as justice, the police or hospitals, we cannot do so without more, without allowing managers and professionals to organize themselves. We can respect this design and allow public service users — and it is our common goal to value public service — not to be harmed either. That is why the unremunerated increase from 35 to 48 hours, imposed in the previous legislation, was an unfair measure, which always deserved and frontally the opposition of the Socialist Party. And the PS here is to restore justice in the exercise responsible for governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u75	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If no one has the frankness to ask the question how it should be put, I have. What is the work regime of four million people in the private sector? It's 40 hours a week. What will be the work arrangements of 650 000 people in the public sector? It's 35 hours a week. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Is it fair that in the same country, who is in the private sector has to work 40 hours a week to help the country make progress and who is in the public sector has to work 35 hours? It's not for us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this regime is not even an exclusive Portuguese: in Germany the weekly time is 41 hours, in Italy it is 40 hours, in the United Kingdom it is 41 hours — in some places it is up to 42 hours — in Belgium it is 38 hours and, even here, in Spain, it is more than 37 hours. It's not an exclusive Portuguese. With this, what sign is society being given? Is it possible to overcome our difficulties by working less? What study is pernicious? What, once again, can we restore the supertax, restore the wages, which will be revoked the Labour Code, that the State is once again the owner of the TAP and that public transport is delivered to the Portuguese Communist Party? [[PCP protests.]] What is the sign that this gives anyone who wants to invest in Portugal, who wants to work in Portugal and who wants to help Portugal go forward? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our choice was a step-by-step option, which did not question confidence. Your choice is to give everything to everyone, in a true electoral fury, in which all the parties on the left are in a frantic competition. As the Socialist Party Member Paulo Trigo Pereira says, in an article yesterday « the rush used to be bad advisor ». And two days ago, Mr Tiago Ribeiro, too of the Socialist Party, said « we cannot take risks of rupture in some services. The services must be given time to adapt, so the new law cannot have immediate applicability." It is noted that the Socialist Party is beginning to be confronted with reality. Far away go the September 2015 times, when Dr. António Costa said: « We say yes, we will immediately rest 35 hours a week because we also made the accounts and we know that we can immediately restore 35 hours in public service». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the word given there remained, the good accounts gave rise to the bad accounts and for the Socialist Party immediately now means six months. When it was necessary to ask for help from civil servants to recover the country and contain the expenditure they said there was no savings; now it is EUR 200 million a year that needs to be paid. Let us hope that they will not be paid by the usual, by the custom, by the taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u77	Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the PSD and the CDS-PP made the decision to increase the working hours of public officials did so - as needed, it was neither for taste nor ideological drift. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u79	They did so - for necessity, due to an imminent bankruptcy situation in which the Socialist Party left the country in 2010. The Portuguese people know and know all public officials. And they also know that nothing moves us, nor has it ever moved us, against public officials. [[Well said, well said!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u80	We think, moreover, and we will never tire of saying, that the country owes much of its salvation to the overwhelming majority of public functionalism, because if the PSD and CDS government has led and provided the guidelines, it was the Public Administration, in its entirety, that helped to implement policies. This and other measures were certainly not easy to take, as they penalized the State workers, to whom much was asked and nothing the Socialist Party had left to give. Unlike the revolt of public functionalism, strikes and widespread discontent, the Portuguese people found understanding, resilience and work. Resilience and work to help correct the problems created by the irresponsibility and expenditure of a Socialist Party which, essentially, only managed to link the country with excess public spending, the financial rescue program and the troika. And that is why it was taken to increase the working time of public functionalism, to help save money from Portuguese taxes, which is indispensable to preserve the social state, pensions and social benefits. And that is what the measure has done, everyone knows: it has allowed to reduce spending with the payment of extraordinary hours, it has managed to reduce the effectiveness of the public service without damaging productivity, it has allowed to reduce the wage mass and to allocate this money, among other things, to the increase in general regime reform pensions, curiously or perhaps not, frozen by the former Socialist Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u81	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u82	Curiously or perhaps not, first, only the radical left is that it behaved as if the resources were unlimited. Curiously or perhaps not, the Socialist Party now also wants to join them in the drift. All this fear, this frenzy of the left attached, of everything wanting to change, accelerated or hasty, as if they no longer told to be here tomorrow, can only be a cause of serious concern. We are absolutely convinced that the Portuguese people do not want, will not allow the past sacrifices to be in vain and are now passively watching, by wasting the balance of public accounts and international credibility, which have so hard to recover for our country. We must therefore be concerned about the absence of any technical support for taking these measures. There are no studies, no numbers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u83	We could crack the numbers like you guys did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u84	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u85	... there are not even promises that will ensure, to us, to state workers and citizens in general, that the rests which are now made unwisely will not later have to be asked back to the generality of citizens, with taxes, and public service workers, with larger cuts, because the united left do not bother to compromise the expenses that the country cannot pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u86	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u87	I shall now conclude, Mr President. with regard to the proposed law establishing the duration of the normal working period of public functionalism in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, the PSD Parliamentary Group considers that its definition is the responsibility of the bodies of each autonomous region.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u88	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u89	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, I reaffirm that I now take the decision to reduce public functionalism time without weighing the costs and consequences is a significant disregard for the sacrifices made in recent years by all Portuguese. [[Congratulations from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u90	For a second intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We understand that the speech on the radical right is a vindictive speech on workers' rights and we realize that PSD and CDS do not comply with the fact. contrary to what the PSD says, the employees of the Public Administration did not ask them to steal their salary, they were imposed a cut in wages and rights. And it was exactly the fight against the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, which led to its defeat and allowed today to discuss the replacement of 35 hours a week's work. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The defeat will be confirmed, Mr. Members, when, on Friday, PSD and CDS do not want to guarantee 35 hours. But the proposals of the Greens and the CFP will be voted on and — imagine it alone! , fuck yourself! — they will have to put revenge in their pocket, because the replacement of 35 hours will be done and will be a guarantee of workers' rights. [[Congratulations from the PCP, PS and BE Member José Manuel Pureza.]] [[But what revenge?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I just wanted to say the following: what is even more serious is that it was the struggle of workers who imposed that the previous government had vetoed hundreds of ACEP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u93	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u94	I will finish, Mr. President. What a more vengeful position this is, that of a government that interferes in the free negotiation that the unions have made with authorities and other public entities to guarantee 35 hours of work per week, but that the previous government has unnecessarily vetoed! Finally, Mr President, I just wanted to say that we understand that maintaining a situation of inequality in public administration is unacceptable. There can be no nurses, no school employees in which some spend 35 hours other than 40 hours. The replacement of 35 hours of work for all, regardless of the contract, but also the replacement of 35 hours in the private sector is a fight that we will work on behalf of workers' rights, progress and social justice. And here's the revenge to get a dry swallow! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u95	For an intervention, certainly very short, you have the floor of Mrs Elza Pais of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is proven that the families were removed five hours a week to take care of their children, to take care of their elderly, to take care of their dependents. It was a wrong measure, it was a measure against equality. Five hours will be answered, which is a measure of equality, a just measure, so that families will have more time to care for their children. It is a conciliation measure. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u97	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u98	This one, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our matrix, a humanist matrix, by a more equal society, contrary to what you want. A fairer society that you have never promoted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u99	We therefore conclude the second item on our agenda. The joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 45/ XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent measures for the financing of specialized artistic music and dance schools to ensure their stability ( CFP ) and 78 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Financing of artistic education ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has scheduled this draft resolution for today because, as it is proven, the situation in art education specialized in Portugal deserves this urgency. All of you. Members and parliamentary groups will certainly have been contacted by teachers, by schools, by institutions that hold schools, by authorities, by associations of parents in order to alert them to the serious underfunding situation that these schools have been living, not only because of the inadequacy of the financing and its calculation, but also because of the delay that, in some cases, there has already been wages late for many months. Artistic education and the way it has been treated by the PSD/CDS Government well demonstrates that PSD and CDS like the private but only if it consists of large economic groups and large private colleges. in this specific case, in which there are private institutions that, due to the lack of a public network, which must be combated, provide an important service to the populations—in fact, they guarantee specialized artistic education, because the State has not yet taken up this role, despite having to do so— these private institutions have no support, unlike the major colleges, to whom all the support was given by the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u101	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u102	The CFP, without concealing that a public response is missing, without wanting to go over this issue, nevertheless brings the debate, this need for adequate funding to the current needs, because the CFP places the right above aptitude in this area. Everyone has the right to learn a musical instrument, everyone has the right to have contact and to learn the arts and, even if they understand it, also to make them their profession. For this, it takes a public offer which, at the moment, largely relies on private institutions, many of them associative, autarchical, finally, of various types. The abolition of funding, the asphyxiation to which these institutions were subject shows that for the PSD and CDS, specialized art education was clearly a cornerstone for their strategy for education and for the development of curricular experiences and the training of individuals. Just because we understand the opposite is that we propose today not only an emergency mechanism that will respond to these needs—and we greet the Government for having already taken care of the hottest issues—but also the review and study of the network and the mission of the artistic specialized education network, so that it will actually respond to the needs of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u103	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, against the facts, there are no arguments: the last four years have meant a real management of policies in artistic education. The right line of action was clear and did not leave any mistakes in its intentions: artistic education was privilege, exotism for some and did not deserve a clear bet by the Ministry of Education led by Nuno Crato. The financing, which already presents weaknesses in its model, is strangled by the incompetence of the Ministry of Nuno Crato, which had the responsibility to pay early to the institutions, but which, in two consecutive years, failed monumentally. The very late transfers left hundreds of teachers without wages for nine months and the directors of these schools accumulated debts to tax, social security and banking, those debts whose interest no one else will pay for them. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u105	The damage was immense. The will of the Left Block focuses on solving these urgent problems. To this end, we bring to the Assembly of the Republic this draft resolution, which aims to: analyze the consequences of the policies of the last four years and consider ways of compensating these schools for the losses caused by delays in transfers; and start a process of discussion and audacity of schools and other bodies linked to artistic and arts education in Portugal on a new financing model that respects the real needs of artistic education, defends public school and does not attract artistic education and its needs only for association contracts. Today, it is urgent to have an urgent and real discussion so that the public school also has its extended educational offer to artistic education. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u106	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two draft resolutions, the BE and the PCP, on the situation of specialized artistic schools regarding the current financing problem. The CDS had already stated, at the joint hearing of the Education and Science and Culture Committees, that unfortunately a number of administrative and legal procedures, such as the issue of prior Court of Auditors'visas, did not allow the planned implementation of the agreed and contractual financing between the parties. From this point of view, the parties on the left believe that they gain margin for all kinds of populism around this matter, particularly for incorrect statements, such as the constant of draft resolution No 45/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), of the PCP, by saying : « In January 2011, the Government... »— of the PS, means «... decided to replace funding to specialized artistic schools (... ), by passing regular State budget funds to finance through the Operational Programme for Human Potential ( POPH) (... ). The situation remained unchanged throughout the PSD/CDS government, which followed. Do not keep on seeking. ” In fact, it was precisely the PSD/CDS government that re-entered the State budget all funding to these schools, whether or not they were in convergence territories, and therefore deserved recognition of the sector. Another inconsistent argument is the position of the CFP, in favor of the creation of a public network of state conservatories, very consistent with its doctrine but frankly incompatible with this concern with sponsorship contracts and private teachers. Therefore, assuming the problem of financing implementation, and avoiding populisms that do not contribute to the solution and the future of this sector, it seems to us essential to resituate the discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u108	It's necessary to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u109	The PSD/CDS Government has strengthened the financing of artistic schools, which has never been so high in its history, now being located at the home of the EUR 60 million, allocated to 97 schools; it has established a single national value per student for the various modalities, creating justice and conditions for a controlled expansion of the network; and it has created stability in the sector, through the signing of multiannual contracts which, unfortunately, were also called into question by BE and PCP on Friday.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u110	Have shame! Have shame and some seriousness! You can't be serious in any way!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u111	It is true that implementation did not go well this first year, but it is also true that the reform was done, and it was done in consultation with the sector. Should the trial end here? For CDS-PP it is possible and should go even further. It is necessary to study in which parts of the country and in which ways it is necessary to strengthen the supply. It is necessary to effectively strengthen this offer by means of a financing contest for the triennium September 2016 / August 2019, and to gradually increase the funding of more students in the supplementary scheme, which, in fact, was not priority, given the financial constraints, and was done Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us work together for solutions and for the promotion of specialized artistic education, but please do not use these schools as weapons of political shooting. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of the Ministry of Nuno Crato which was clear to all that the arts and humanity, as well as the role of opening up to the world that these areas of knowledge provide, did not interest the Government of Passos Coelho. The right-wing government's education policy was largely aimed at producing future workers — or perhaps emigrants —, confined to specific skills, limited to the creation of self-thinking. Thus, an education cycle was hypothesized with inadequate curriculum goals, punitive and anachronic evaluations and an increasingly reduced and impoverished public offer, preparing the public education service, as they did in other crucial sectors of the Portuguese economy, to deliver it to the private sector in the medium term. Moreover, it is sufficient to analyze the situation of public schools in the indicators of the national schools of 2015 — increasingly away from the private — to understand that Nuno Crato and Passos Coelho were finally achieving one of the few successes of their governance: the progressive and systematic dismantling of the public school. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] As far as artistic education is concerned, all limits have been exceeded. The devaluation and disrespect for artistic education exposed, in its true dimension, Nuno Crato's parish vision of educational policies. In addition to the intrinsic importance of this kind of teaching, it is also from the plan of civic and educational training that is associated with it that much of its added value, attested to the strong cultural dynamization of the regions where these schools enter and their socio-cultural and economic reflections. As for the educational advantages, without recalling international studies, with emphasis on UNESCO, it is sufficient to look at the top place that occupy national rankings integrated schools such as the Braga Conservatory, the Harbour Conservatory or the Santa Cecilia Academy, which are always at the top of these rankings. A good music student is always a good general education student. But this we all know, except, by the way, the former Minister for the Education of Rabbits, who did not hesitate to miss the truth of this Parliament, ensuring that the financing of artistic schools was resolved, in the face of the greatest crisis that this sector has already experienced, for more than a year, with the previous government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: After all, the financing was not settled. The lack of a minister's word had a price: more than 3000 teachers and their families suffered from him in the skin. This government and the current Minister in just two weeks have resolved the peak of the crisis. The funding of 113 schools is finally being paid, and the government is preparing a portal that will prevent this from happening again. And he's also studying new models of funding. Mrs. Members, these draft resolutions, either the Left Block or the Portuguese Communist Party, meet the concerns of the Socialist Party and the Government. For this government, arts and humanity matter. They are founders of critical thinking. That is why democracy is indispensable. Therefore, they are indispensable to a demanding and quality educational system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u114	Mr Pedro Pimpão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss funding to specialized artistic schools with the draft resolutions of the Left Block and the PCP, which I take advantage of to greet us for bringing the matter back to this House, since we have also discussed it several times in committee. But to start discussing this matter, it matters contextualize it and go to the genesis of the problem. And Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas here made some contribution on the genesis, on the financing model. He forgot to tell the House what he said, in committee, in the hearing of the Requested Movement of Specialized Artistic Education, i.e., that it was the Government of the Socialist Party that created the model that everyone criticizes,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u116	... a financing model based on two sources of funding: the State Budget and the POPH (Human Potential Operational Programme), which created a huge confusion. We are talking about the beginning of January 2011. [[Protests by PS deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to continue, so that we all know what we are discussing. According to this financing model, the schools that were being financed by the State budget received by class and were sure and secure in this payment; on the contrary, the schools that were in the convergence regions received by Community funds, by the POPH, and received not by class but by expenditure against invoice, which made it difficult, and much, the life of schools in Portugal. [[What a mess!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u117	They didn't know how to fit the models!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u118	Thus, until 2014 / 2015, this was the financing model of specialized artistic education that was in force in Portugal. From this academic year, 2015 / 2016, this funding was made exclusively by the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u119	What was the result? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u120	What does that mean? That all schools will receive according to the students that the classes have and will no longer have the uncertainty of receiving, or not, according to the leaders of the POPH. Moreover, to clarify what has been done by the previous Government to avoid problems — some of which still remain but are being corrected and are already being corrected by the former Government — the allocation of funding has been carried out for the first time by public tender. You know why? Because the 2013 Special and Cooperative Education Statute forced greater transparency in this process. Therefore, because of the public competition which was launched last year having had some distortions according to the model that existed, the value of the financing of specialized artistic education in Portugal is about EUR 59 million per year, which amounts to EUR 177 million in three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u121	Less than Community funding!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u122	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if they want to be proud of what is done in Portugal, know that this is the highest value attributed to specialized artistic education in the last 10 years in Portugal. This value reflects the priority given by the Government of Pedro Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas to this matter, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u123	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u124	I will finish, Mr. President. More: I can say that because of the instability generated by the previous model, funding now becomes multi-annual, it becomes for three academic years. I think this is of interest to everyone. Therefore, the stability of specialized artistic education is guaranteed. Finally, I want to say that the PCP and the Left Block could be a little more coherent. And I noticed the delicacy Mr. Miguel Tiago touched on this. What we are talking about today is private schools, private and cooperative schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u125	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u126	... which have an essential role in the regions where they are inserted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u127	But we have not diminished the importance of schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u128	Now, I think this is a more valuable thing, which we must emphasize here. And we, PSD, will be next to our authorships who have supported these schools in valuing artistic education specializing in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the CFP Parliamentary Group for bringing this matter to artistic education specialized in the discussion in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, because it is indeed a matter that requires discussion and, from it, answers. I would like to begin by saying that, with regard to the former Government, the attack on culture extended to specialized artistic education. And one of the weapons of attack they used was just about funding, which naturally disturbed this teaching and their schools. We are all reminded of screaming situations, extraordinarily worrying—it was not a year, it was for several years repeatedly— of teachers with late wages. And it wasn't a "wage" late, it was months of late wages! Can we look forward to what this means in the stability of life for many families? Of course we can imagine. On the other hand, they also generated the impossibility of these schools fulfilling commitments, even with the State, particularly with finance, social security and also with banks. They destabilized the functioning of these schools, that is, they devalued artistic education specialized in the wave of the devaluation of the cultural component that they did throughout the mandate in which PSD and CDS were government. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in the last half-year debate with Mr Prime Minister, the Greens drew attention to the matter of financing specialized artistic education. After that, the government has already responded to the most grueling situations. But we remember that there are accumulated debts, and we need an answer to that matter. And we also remember that this is a situation that cannot continue to repeat from year to year, so that a structured solution can be found. We therefore value these draft resolutions which are under discussion in order to enable them to contribute to the finding of this solution. It is true that it was a huge mistake to find the solution found by another PS Government to replace the funding of the State budget by the POPH, having affected the amounts and the funding deadlines. But the truth is that the PSD/CDS government has adopted this solution throughout its mandate. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens consider it essential to contribute to a structured solution. I would also like to leave a note on what, for us, should be a concern of this House, which is working for a public offer of artistic education. We can certainly also work towards this in order to be a solution that the country needs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u131	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to clarify some facts, undo some myths and some demagogy as well. [[PSD protests.]] It is not worth saying that the Left Block wants to end contracts with artistic schools. In fact, I started the intervention I made last week on association contracts to say that artistic education is education and that the Left Block defends these contracts. The one who attacked them was the right government. Therefore, it is not worth coming up with this conversation, no one believes it, especially schools, because schools know who was next to them in times of greatest difficulty, who was next to the teachers and who was next to the students, while the right government had to suspend the transfers that needed to be made for artistic education. Another thing that's not worth trying to say is that it was all right and that you're being abusively blamed for a chance. The question is this: when azares happen, we begin to distrust if they are not intentional, rather than just bad luck. The artistic schools come to say, for the second consecutive year, that DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ) has poorly educated the processes—and the Government knows that DGE is poorly instructing the processes—and that because of this, schools are not receiving the money, they are not paying the teachers, teachers are in late wages, there are articulated students who are out of the system, who are studying in joint education and who are losing the skills they wanted to acquire, they are losing the education they want to have because of delays in transfers. The government knows that this happens and doesn't do anything about why? Is it because it works? Oh, my God! Is it good to pay a few months later, even at the expense of teachers' salaries? Oh, my God! Have you managed to save these millions and not make transfers to artistic schools? Oh, my God! Why, for two years in a row, did the government never want to know? Why was DGE failing to instruct the processes and, in two months, the current Minister of Education has already called on the Director of DGE to take responsibility for what he did to artistic schools? Was there complicity or not? Or, better or not, was there any intention of destroying artistic schools, with a very high price for the life of teachers and students? [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u133	For a second intervention, Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u134	Mr President, first of all, in this last speech, I would like to greet the teachers, schools and students, who persistently resisted and continued their work during this period, within the possible normality, despite the disturbance that the PSD and the CDS, with the government they then dominated, tried to impose on them. Mrs. Members, it is true that it was the Socialist Party, which at the time, with the opposition of the Portuguese Communist Party, transferred the origin of the funds to the POPH. It is also true that the PDS and the CDS, by putting these money into the State budget, have implemented a strategy to restrict the money, have not expanded it, knowing that it was not enough. They also imposed an invitation to tender, which boycotted, providing guidance to the services to create a procedure that did not go through the Court of Auditors and therefore decided politically to abolish artistic education in Portugal. The PCP did not speak here carefully or any melindre about the private ones. The PCP does not have a bearing on private activity. The PCP is not, as the PSD and CDS, only on the side of private activity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u135	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u136	...that it's an elite business, or rather, we're not all that far. But private activity, in this case, should have the support of the State to guarantee a right to persons until the State can clearly carry out its mission with a public service. Mr President, in conclusion, I just wanted to say that it is understandable that those who want to submit to us also want us to be uncultivated and that, therefore, they want to suppress our access to arts and culture, because they can only convince us, as the CDS-PP has tried to do, that they want to receive wages is populism. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u137	Mrs. Members, we move on to the last item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of Decree-Law No 182 / 2015 of 31 August, which defines the procedures for the regularization of the debts of the extinct House of Douro with the nature of public association, in accordance with the provisions of Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October[ Parliamentary assessments n. 10 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE) and 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The House of Douro was created in order to defend the wine producers of the Demarcado do Douro Region and its genesis gave it the protection of Douro wine growers against market fluctuations, on the one hand, and the protection of the speculative action of exporters and delegated powers by the State in order to ensure the quality of the wine produced, on the other. The House of Douro played this important role, especially in the protection of small and medium-sized producers in the region. The generality of the most recent legislative amendments concerning the House of Douro was to empty its powers as a public entity as well as its revenue by transferring them to the Institute of Douro and Porto Wines ( IVDP ). by Decree-Law No. 182 / 2015 of 31 August, the Government created conditions for the appointment of an administrator to regularize the debts of the House of Douro, making all the functions of the members of the bodies of that institution cease, depriving them of any powers, as well as preserving and occupying the movable and immovable property. This was another step in a multilateral process which, rather than solving the problems of the House of Douro, previously aggravated them by introducing division and conflict in a region that required peace and support. Aggravating the picture, at the beginning of the morning of the very day when the PSD Government Programme / CDS-PP was rejected here, in the Assembly of the Republic, the administrator appointed under Decree-Law No 182 / 2015 entered the door within the building of the House of Douro, stormed in the morning and by the wharf, taking the facilities, in a violent and unexplained attitude. Thus, the Left Block is moving forward with this Parliamentary assessment, in order to prevent the entry into force of absurd processes for the regularization of the debt of the House of Douro, processes which do not properly care about the interests of most of those who have built, with enormous effort, the Demarcated Region of Douro. In fact, this Decree-Law, which we consider today, has already been considered unconstitutional by the Administrative and Prosecutor's Court of Mirandela. Although the judgment of the Mirandela Court is suspended by an appeal, in addition to the error of the political option before it, the fragility of the legal proceedings in which it is based is also evident. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this parliamentary assessment, it is intended to ensure the defence of the interests of all those who have contributed to the greatness of the Demarcado do Douro region and the creation of conditions for the full clarification of the complex process that led to the extinction of the House of Douro. The two years since the initiation of the privatisation operation of the House of Douro already allow us to conclude that it was negative a whole global process that passed through the Decree-Law that we appreciate. Even some who have initially believed in their kindness, in the face of the complex and conflictal framework created, will not fail to draw their conclusions today. For the Left Block, the need to reverse this process is evident. With this assessment and with the draft resolution we associate it, it opens the way to a process of pacification of Durian viticulture and of financial and administrative sanitation of Casa do Douro, in charge of an administrative commission to be appointed by the Government. Having completed this operation and in due course, the reconstruction of the House of Douro will have to go through its reconfiguration as an association of public law and compulsory registration, an association that unites all Duronian wine growers and effectively represents the interests of production, in comparison with the powerful interests of marketing. Today, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to take a first step towards that future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u139	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The former PSD / CDS government, following a long process of the last decades, has taken over the destruction of the House of Douro as an entity of a public nature and compulsory registration. The objective, it was said, was to financialize the House of Douro and end the debts of the institution. Today it is very clear that this objective was only the argument, and the evidence is that the public nature of the association has already been extinct, another private entity has already robbed the House of Douro headquarters and used its name, and the debt is still to be paid and it is not known when it will be paid. Another fallacy of this process is to attribute the exclusive responsibility of the difficulties this institution has reached and its limitations in the representation of production to the House of Douro itself and to the governing bodies that cease. The CFP has never ceased to hold the House's leadership accountable for its actions, in particular by giving them the great responsibility for not mobilising the region in good time to defend the House of Douro and all the Durian heritage. But to blame only the leading bodies, as they do PSD and CDS, hiding the responsibilities of successive governments that have been stealing skills and respective recipes from the House of Douro, using the IVDP as a tool of this theft, is to try to hide the real ones responsible for the situation. The objective of the PSD and CDS with this process was becoming increasingly clear: to place this heritage and the power to represent production in people linked to the CAP and the exporting houses of Gaia, to transfer the valuable heritage in wine to some entity or company—which will still be seen which would be...! — and, at the end, to be able to put an end to the benefit system which allows the profitability of wine holdings in a region where production is very difficult, as required by some exporters who understand until this natural step after the extinction of the House of Douro. The legislative authorization that the Government had granted to the permanent management of debt settlement powers. Subsequent judicial decisions were withdrawing the government to reason in the insolvency proceedings it intervened. Having failed to achieve its objectives, the Government, through Decree-Law No 182/2015 of 31 August 2015 and which is under parliamentary review today, defined procedures for the regularization of debt. under this Decree-Law, the Government published the office of the Secretary of State of Agriculture appointing the administrator for the settlement of the debt, published on 2 October 2015, precisely on the last working day prior to the legislative elections. This administrator soon revealed an instrument for the pursuit of the government's objectives already described, which, for the most various reasons, including judicial matters, was having difficulty reaching. This is the example of his contribution to the preparation and completion of the occupation of the Douro House, using the collapse of its doors, on the day on which the PSD/CDS Government was plunged into the Assembly of the Republic by rejection of its Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u141	It was a CDS occupation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u142	This action, which occurred after the surrender of parliamentary appreciation, as well as the wrong and even provocative action in the face of the previous direction and particularly to the officials of the House of Douro, to whom we have conveyed a word of solidarity, has only demonstrated the fairness and necessity of this initiative. It is essential to pacify the region and resume the defense path of the House of Douro, which is a public institution. at the end of last year, the Administrative and Prosecutor's Court of Mirandela decided that the Government had no power to legislate on the matter, being the reserve of the Assembly of the Republic, and that it was not covered by the legislative authorization, so it annulled the appointment order of the administrator. Until transiting into court, the decision does not become effective, so it is essential to cease the application of Decree-Law No 182 / 2015. The CFP Parliamentary Group will now deliver a proposal to that effect. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u143	Mr António Lima Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by informing you that the Court's decision, which has just been raised here, has been suspended following the appeal of the Public Prosecutor's Office and therefore the cash administrator continues to work normally. In addition, and using the phrase "to justice what is justice, what is politics, what is politics", it is not legitimate to ride this wave to justify the goodness of parliamentary appreciation and therefore the politics of this Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u145	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u146	It is, moreover, a parliamentary appreciation used by the PCP and BE as a mere regiment for, in confusion of the new political situation, trying to impose on the Socialist Party its ideological agenda for the region, which passes through a House of Douro which is not transparent, public, with powers of intervention and regulation of the market and compulsory registration, withdrawing the constitutional right to freedom of association to wine growers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the region does not need a House of the Douro of Marxist-Leninist inspiration. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u147	It needs, yes, to end this novel, to turn the page and to effectively defend the small and medium-sized farmers of the Douro. Let's remember the facts. First: the House of Douro has committed a debt to the State of large tens of millions of euros; According to : in this period, on one hand, there was one direction of the House of Douro and on the other, there were seven governments, four being the Socialist Party and three the PSD / CDS ; Third: these seven governments presented to the House of Douro several debt regularization plans, in their essence equivalent to each other; Fourth : the direction of the House of Douro systematically boycotted all debt regularization plans. Well, what does Decree-Law say we appreciate here today? With good sense, he says that, in order to regulate this debt, the direction of the House of Douro is replaced by an independent administrator. That's all that's at stake. What, then, is the Socialist Party's position in this context? Does he adopt Plan A? Will he now deny a model equivalent to what he was defending? Will it also mix justice with politics? Will you give a vote of confidence to the permanent direction of the House of Douro? Will you give in to the radical left using the House of Douro folder as any currency of exchange? In sum, will you revoke this Decree-Law? If so, the Socialist Party chooses the path of the PCP and BE for the Douro region. There is, however, a slight hope that the sense of responsibility will reign and that in the Douro, unlike the rest of the country, it will not be revoked and built upon what has already been built.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u148	A CDS occupation is what PSD defends!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u149	Therefore, we tell the Socialist Party that a plan B is possible in this area, a consensus is possible. As a starting point for this consensus, the PSD will soon present a legislative initiative aimed at eliminating all legal doubts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u150	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u151	If the Socialist Party in fact defends the Douro region, it will not fail to adopt this plan B, making it impossible to revoke the relevant Decree-Law. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u152	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question of the House of Douro comes back to the debate in this plenary because the previous PSD/CDS government has been nearly four years delaying the problem. It was four years of announcements and promises. There was no lack of announcements and promises, there were no solutions that would in fact solve the problems of the Douro House and the problems of producers in the Douro Demarcated Region. The little that the PSD/CDS government has made was to deal with exporting houses, which, in fact, led to the cutting of 25 000 pipes of benefit to producers. It then requested the collaboration of the municipalities through the Intermunicipal Douro Community, but when this entity presented the conclusions of its work, the PSD/CDS Government completely ignored this work that it had commissioned. It therefore preferred to continue to promote uncertainty about the future and, above all, to continue to allow failures and sale to break down cooperative wineries, the ownership by the property bank through bank executions and the consequent ruin of many and many small wine growers. in fact, the only solution the PSD/CDS government presented was to sell the estate to pay the debts and turn the House of Douro into a private law association. In other words, the PSD/CDS government intended to solve the problem in the easiest way and the easiest way was to get out of the scene. The state came out of the scene. It was therefore a solution to be considered at least in the interests of the Douro winegrowers, especially small and medium-sized producers. The envelope was such that the Mirandela court even questioned whether the previous Government had not exorbited the scope of the authorization law granted to it by this House. It is therefore important to clarify this whole process of extinction of the House of Douro, especially because it does not safeguard the interests of small and medium-sized wine growers. The House of Douro was created for two very clear purposes: on the one hand, to defend the wine growers of the Demarcado do Douro region and on the other, to ensure the quality of the wine produced in this Demarcado region. It happens that, over time, we have been witnessing successive changes in the legislative plan that in practical terms what they brought was the emptying of the powers of the House of Douro and the transfer of its revenue to the Institute of Douro and Porto Wines. As a result of these legislative changes or the government options, but above all the previous PSD/CDS government, the House of Douro has seen its situation worsened and was virtually unable to develop and give body to its duties. Now, in view of this framework, which included occupations, The Greens accompany the authors of the parliamentary assessments that are under discussion and have already given the Bureau a legislative initiative to put an end to the operation of Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October 2014. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u154	Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This issue of the Demarcada do Douro region has been going through the parliamentary debate over the last three decades. It went through the parliamentary debate in the 1980s, when, in this House, the excess production and the first intervention of the Douro were discussed. He went through the debate in the early 1990s, when the direction of the House of Douro, with the permission of the Government of Professor Cavaco Silva, bought a part of the Royal Old Company. He went through the debate still in the 1990s, when the Government of the Socialist Party of Engineer António Guterres began the debt aggregation process and guaranteed it until today. He went through the debate at the beginning of this century, when the PSD/CDS government made the greatest ever attack on the Douro, which was to end with the powers of the House of Douro, in the aggregation of the Douro farmers, to defend their interests in an interprofessional perspective. Subsequently, the parliamentary debate went through two more times: when the Douro was completely limited in its ability to manage, between producers and exporters, the wine to be benefited and, in recent times, when the Douro was limited in its ability to decide its future, with the extinction of the Douro House as an association of public law and compulsory registration, and no longer having the ability to intervene and accompany the solution of that same debt. It was 30 years of parliamentary debate! It was 30 years of debate on the Douro! It was 30 years in which politicians in this House did not understand the concrete reality of the Douro, the specificities of the Douro and the needs that the Douro must definitely find a solution to their problems! We're all responsible. We are all responsible for 30 years of inability to understand the Douro and to understand that the Douro is a responsibility of all, with specificities. The Socialist Party is available to work with all parties and with the government to solve a 30-year problem. First, with the institutional organization, returning a House of Douro that adds all the farmers of the Douro, not only those who have the ability to produce and export, but mainly those of the Lower Corgo, who are the ones who have to invest most to support the Heritage of Humanity, and this reality is not inseparable from reading the Douro region between man, landscape and wine. Secondly, in order to resolve the debt of the House of Douro permanently and legally. Thirdly, to solve the problem of over-stocking, not allowing these stocks to interfere with the wine benefited in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u156	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u157	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Socialist Party is available to work. We knew how to meet the challenges that Douro is asking us and at the time to solve a problem for decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u158	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the historical description made by Mr Ascenso Simões. however, I am only making a small correction, since Mr Deputy did not complete the whole story of what happened here. Everything he said basically corresponds to the truth, except that he had made a hiatus between 2005 and 2009 and between 2009 and 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u160	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u161	Between 2005 and 2009 the Government that you were also part of did not strictly do anything to try to solve the problem of the House of Douro. Between 2009 and 2011 the Government of the Socialist Party — yes, by the hand of Minister António Serrano — attempted to present a solution, which the direction of the House of Douro did not accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u162	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u164	Today, we are discussing the return to a model that has failed, that has failed and that has not been able to regenerate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] They want the House of Douro to be a public association again, of compulsory registration. That is, again a corporate association of the time of António Oliveira Salazar. And it's funny to be left to want to do this. Don't stop being curious. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Nor does it seem curious that we are making an assessment of a government diploma and he is absent from this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u165	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u166	We don't know what you think or what you want in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u167	The left one, the one in the management, now she's quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u168	We also do not know, with the cease-of-life of this Decree-Law, what is the stated solution, what is done immediately, what is happening. Is everything that was before reprisaled? How, if the House of Douro has already ceased its duties on December 15, 2014? How do you do it? How do you figure it out? Nothing is said! It is that the culture here accused of being practiced by the liquidator of all this heritage was to pay the debts, including the workers, of the House of Douro — and on the workers we have not heard strictly say anything here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u170	This entity, which should be installed in the House of Douro and which was not because the previous ones did not leave, did not rob. From assault to property, occupying properties knows the PCP since 1974. But that's not what's happening here, because we live in a rule of law...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u172	...and in a rule of law the law must be complied with and the law must be complied with by all those to whom it applies, regardless of whether or not we agree with it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Outside the rule of law there is only one type of administration: dictatorships. And that's not what's happening. My Friends and Friends, Mr. President, I would like to know what the Government thinks about this matter, but, as the Government is not present, I hope that the Socialist Party will reflect and withdraw in due course this draft resolution for termination of the Decree-Law, because no solution has appeared and the Government has said nothing. Finally, I would like to know who will pay the 160 million debts that the House of Douro has been able to generate and has never been able to regenerate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u173	The PAN handed over 1 minute to the Socialist Party. Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thought that Mr. Abel Baptist's passage through the House of Lamego would have allowed him to know the region a little better, but he did not know it. After all, you only knew what Mr. Paulo Portas, sitting behind you and serving as a point, told you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u175	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u176	But usually the points are ahead, they're not behind. I want to tell the honourable Member and the House that the Socialist Party will present an initiative that solves its problems, but I also want to leave the following challenge to the CDS: that we can find a solution in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u177	We've found it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u178	...to touch the three points I mentioned here, namely the institutional model; the issue of debt, helping the Socialist Party from what were the proposals presented at the time by the members of the Socialist Party; and, finally, the issue of stocks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u179	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u180	Mr President, I look forward to your presence in this committee in order to achieve a goal for the Douro. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-13.u181	Mrs. Members, I inform you that draft resolutions Nos 80/ XIII ( 1 ) have entered the Bureau. ( a ) ( PS ), 81 / XIII ( 1. ( BE ), 82 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( The Greens) and 83 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 182 / 2015 of 31 August, which defines the procedures for the regularization of the debts of the extinct House of Douro with the nature of the public association, in accordance with Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October[ Parliamentary assessments n. 10 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE) and 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ), which will be voted on next Friday. We have thus reached the end of the debate on this item and the agenda for today. Mrs. Members, the plenary will meet tomorrow at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: from point 1, the discussion of draft resolution No 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce the public passenger transport service in the East Line throughout its route ( The Greens ). In point 2, the general discussion of the proposal for law No 346 / XII ( 4 ) is followed. ( a ) — Establishment of the Children's Observatory ( ALRAM ). in point 3, law No 186 / XII ( 3 ) will generally be discussed. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAA ). Finally, legislation No 323/ XII ( 4 ) will also be discussed in general. ( a ) — I have established a family farming support scheme in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 53 minutes.]]
