ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 319 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Road Code, considering as a serious counter-ordination the stopping and parking in place reserved for vehicles of persons with disabilities ( amendment to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 320 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes the obligation for public entities with user parking facilities to ensure free parking for persons with disabilities ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 307 / 2003 of 10 December 2003 ) ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission and 321 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Exemption of propines in the first and second cycles of higher education for disabled students ( BE ), which falls to 8. The draft resolutions Nos 500 / XIII ( 2 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government award an allowance for assistance dog expenditure to all persons with disabilities, recognised under Decree-Law No 74 / 2007 of 27 March 2007 ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 501 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a recruitment group for Portuguese gestual teachers ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 502 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that persons with disabilities of a disability rate equal to or greater than 60 % are included in the protocol concluded between the INR and the CP in order to access the 25 % discount on tariffs ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 503 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by eliminating the sustainability factor applicable to disability pensions converted into old-age pensions ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 504 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese gestual language be included in the range of existing curriculum enrichment activities ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 505 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of teaching Portuguese gestual language to students and students in reference schools for the bilingual education of deaf students ( BE ), which falls to 8. Commission, 506 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that light passenger or mixed motor vehicles for the use of persons with disabilities be included in Class 1 for the purposes of tolls ( BE ), which fall to 6. the Commission, 507 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government classify mobility scooters so as to allow them access to all modes of passenger transport ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 508 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent intervention at the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Members, I would like to recall that today, during the sitting until 14 p.m., there are elections to the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, to the President of the Economic and Social Council, to a Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic and to the Council of Radio and Television Opinion of Portugal, SA. Let us now start the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which means that the parliamentary groups are beginning to ask questions to the Prime Minister. That being the case, you have the floor, firstly, to ask questions, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u4	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, regardless of our position on this European construction model - and there are increasingly more critical people in relation to the consequences of this model built up in the European Union - I believe it is time to collectively assume that the constraints of the euro rules are an agony for us. In fact, they are a brake on the development of the weaker economies. These blind deficits implemented do not coincide with a real development capacity of the countries. The Greens therefore consider that it is time for this issue of the constraints of the euro area to be no longer a taboo and become a fundamental point of our collective debate, and it would be essential for the country to assume that this is blocking us in an absolutely real way, to tie us up - the future - perhaps the most appropriate expression to classify these rules of the euro zone. On the other hand, the country is witnessing another agony, here internally, consisting of the fact that the right, PSD and CDS, are trying to make people forget about the responsibilities they had in the country's sinking. Removing memory would be extraordinary for these parties. But the appeal made by the Greens is for people to remember the policies that cheerfully these parties have developed in the past legislation and, above all, the huge increase in direct and indirect taxes, gross cuts in incomes, both at the level of wages and at the level of pensions, and how they have degraded public services and their ability to respond, just to give some examples. That is why, Prime Minister, the Greens think it might be very important to promote an exercise, which is to think what we would be discussing right now if the PSD and the CDS were building a State Budget. Mr. Prime Minister, I believe that the Portuguese are very aware of what it would be, because pensioners would continue to be whipped, because public officials would continue to be whipped, because income would continue to be cut, because taxes would continue to worsen. And it was enough for the European Union to act with a sanctions scenario and we would immediately have another austerity package presented. The proof of this, Prime Minister, is that we now have an absolutely furious right to return income.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u5	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u6	I'm done now, Madam President. The fact that you are restoring income leaves this right absolutely furious, because that was not your agenda. Mr Prime Minister, even to conclude, I would like to say that the Greens consider it absolutely relevant to reinstatement of family incomes, as they consider it absolutely relevant to take another step now at the level of investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u7	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u8	Portugal needs public investment and private investment and, in this sense, the Greens will present several proposals at the level of the State budget, in particular for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with a view to re-enhancing our interior, with a view to re-enhancing and promoting the use of collective transport, with a view to promoting more conservation of nature and more protection for our forests, because the country cannot stop. This country has a place of development! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u9	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u10	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, has raised the issue of the euro. It is indisputable that in the 30 years of Portugal's participation in the European Union, the first 15 years were of strong economic convergence and the second 15 years have been of prolonged stagnation, alternating between quite mediocre growth or periods of recession. Today, it is recognised by everyone — still yesterday Commissioner Moscovici said it in an interview — that the euro has failed as an instrument of convergence and that, on the contrary, it has been an instrument of divergence. The Nobel Prize in Economics, Joseph Stiglitz, also published a long study on the set of reforms that the euro area needs in order to be a factor of convergence, of greater solidarity and therefore a more stable area. And it is essential for Europe as a whole to understand it, because it is not just about the problem of divergence that the weaker economies, like Portugal, have suffered over these years. It is that this fragility is a factor of instability for the euro area as a whole. And we, who need a strong euro and a stable euro zone, need to resume convergence policies. It is very important, at the level of the Commission, at the level of the Council and, above all, at the level of the European Parliament, that this issue is no longer a taboo issue but a subject taken up and discussed. It must move on to a subject on which there are decisions, because decisions are necessary. She asked the honourable Member what we would be discussing if there had not been a majority change by voter decision. Surely, instead of starting the discussion, in time and time, of the State Budget for 2017, we should be discussing the first or even the second amending budget for 2016. That was surely what we would be discussing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The rage that the PSD and the CDS have every day passing without the devil appearing is because effectively what has been possible to demonstrate is that the country does not develop, does not grow, nor does it become competitive at the cost of impoverishment, the destruction of rights and the elimination of public services. on the contrary, it is possible and necessary to pursue a path of reintroduction of family income, whether pension or salary, or the reduction of tax burden. We need to create conditions for more investment by accelerating the implementation of Community funds and creating favourable conditions for companies to invest, create jobs and create wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u11	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u12	At the same time, this is possible without us going into disagreement with the fulfilment of a sustained consolidation path of public finances. It is the demonstration that the model that has failed and that the alternative model is possible that, in fact, leaves the right angry, but does not leave the Portuguese furious, who, on the contrary, are increasingly confident that we are on the right path to go inverting the result of the impoverishment strategy that the right has continued for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u13	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, I find it very significant that this 15-year debate has begun with an invitation from the Green Party to fiction. Discussing fiction has been a very popular trend in recent months. I would therefore like to invite the Prime Minister to discuss the reality. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, without any anger, on the contrary, as has been customary, I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister whether he already has a good explanation for what the Government today recognizes to be what can be called modest growth prospects of the Portuguese economy in 2016. The Government has repeatedly reiterated that there was no reason to change its growth prospects for the economy. Mr Prime Minister, moreover, was very emphatic when he said that we would meet our goals as a country and that the government saw no reason to change these growth prospects. However, even after our last half-year debate — I recall that Mr Prime Minister, who was also very emphatic, showed some figures on the great momentum that investment has known in Portugal in recent months since the government took possession — Mr Prime Minister said that unfortunately the Portuguese economy may not grow much more than 1 % this year, perhaps a little more than 1 %, but not much more, with the government having a goal of 1, 8 %. So far, the growth that could be measured represented 0, 9 %. There is one question which may be missing from Mr Prime Minister's explanation: since, after all, he already recognises that the economy should certainly not grow 1, 8 %, as the government has expected, but that perhaps grow a little more than 1 %, what is the result of this? If the investment, as Mr. Prime Minister says, is really growing, what has been the engine of the economy's braking? I wish Mr. Prime Minister could clarify the House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u15	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u16	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I take this moment to share with the whole House the joy that we certainly all felt yesterday that we had seen the acclaimed — Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs — a fellow countryman of ours as Secretary-General of the United Nations. [[General applause, having the PS applauded standing.]] Thanking, of course, for the support that has been given by all political forces and by all sovereignty agencies, I would like to take this opportunity to thank, in particular, you, Exa, who has always corresponded to the personal demands that the Government has asked you for in this campaign, which was a truly national campaign. I am also grateful for the willingness that we have to talk about reality, because reality is quite different from reality that I hear on weekends, in successive speeches. The reality is that, in a context of lower growth in the global economy, what is likely to happen to the growth of the Portuguese economy is perfectly in line with the forecasts that the International Monetary Fund ( IMF) has made a downward review of the growth of the developed economies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u17	In Spain it doesn't seem!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u18	Despite this lower growth than was expected, the fact is that if we look at a determining factor such as employment, we see a sustained reduction in the unemployment rate of more than 12 % at levels close to 10 %. This means that, despite growth being smaller, we are meeting the main objective of our economic policy, which — I repeat and I remind you — was employment, employment, employment. Today we have less unemployment and we have more employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you are speaking in reality, I remember that this has also happened because, contrary to what is often fictional, investment has not decreased, private investment has increased. The numbers of the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) are unequivocal: in the first half of this year, the investment increased by 7 %. It did not decrease, increase, and was not little — 7, 7 %. in the same way, what we are told is that, contrary to what happened last year and previous years, we will meet the targets of reducing the budget deficit. this year, contrary to what happened, until last year, we will leave the excessive deficit procedure. And the reality is the following in terms of forecasts: Mr Deputy, in each year he governed, not only presented a Budget, not only presented a Reformary Budget—in 2011, in 2012, in 2013 and in 2014 he presented a Budget, a First Reformary Budget and a Second Reformary Budget. We will present today the State Budget for 2017 without having submitted any corrections for 2016! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u19	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have not answered me.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u21	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u22	But the music was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u23	It is not a novelty, because Mr. Prime Minister normally does not answer the questions they ask you. I asked you what justified the lowest recorded growth in the Portuguese economy. Was it the investment problem? Was it the problem of domestic demand, of consumption? Was it the problem of external demand and exports? What justified the lower growth? Mr Prime Minister answered me with, finally, a general arena, as he usually takes advantage of to explain in these 15-year debates. But you didn't answer the question! The previous government, in the last two years, made two forecasts for the growth of the economy: in 2014 it predicted that the economy would grow 0, 8 % and it grew 0, 9 %; in 2015 it predicted that the economy would grow 1, 5 % and it grew 1, 6 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u25	It seems to me that in terms of forecasts for the growth of the economy, the former government has not gone wrong! But this government has planned 1, 8 % for this year and the Prime Minister says that it should not go much further than 1 %. It's a very big difference, it's almost half! What justifies this difference, Prime Minister? It is certainly not, as I thought it would be, the external demand, because Spain, for example, is growing almost three times more what Portugal grows and is seeking to form a government since you formed your own!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u26	I've grown twice as much!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u27	What does it justify for Spain to grow externally, that our export markets also grow, despite these prospects of the IMF for world demand and for world growth? in fact, when we discussed here the macroeconomic scenario for this year, we called attention and said that the forecasts seemed, clearly, very optimistic. After all, we were right, they were very optimistic! Part of what can be identified today as weak growth linked to the international economy and the global economy was perfectly predictable. And then for Angola, we don't talk! The government presented a stability programme in April, when all of this was already known! The fourth quarter of 2015 and the indefinition around the government solution by election time have already been known. All of this was known! But the government said: "We see no need to change! Do not keep on seeking. ” What, then, went wrong from the point of view of the government's accounts so that things had run very differently from what the government thought? Answer this question, Prime Minister, please. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u28	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u29	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I answered, I answered, the honourable Member is that he did not like the answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] I understand that you did not like the answer, because you adopted the following strategy: your success depends on the failure of the country. So whenever the country has a success, you have a failure! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You did not like the answer because you wanted to discuss forecasts and I told you about results. But I had heard the honourable Member say that he wanted to debate on the basis of reality. Well, reality is not the forecast.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u30	The reality is that we're growing half the forecast!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u31	Do not be angry, Mr, that is not the case for that! You still have time, then, to try to do a triple if necessary. The honourable Member would like to discuss the reality. But reality is not the predictions, reality is the results that are achieved! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u32	Those are bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u33	I see that nervousness is contagious, that you're able to contaminate your bench with your nervousness! Mr President, by recommending that all remain calm and serene, the International Monetary Fund has reduced the growth of the most developed economies by 0, 6 %. What is the evolution of our growth will most likely be in line with what was predicted by the International Monetary Fund, and that I said it would be a little over 1%. So if we stay at 1, 2 %, which would correspond to the linear application of the International Monetary Fund forecast, we will not be far from what I am saying. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] The fundamental question is to know: to grow for what? What we want with growth is a generation of jobs. Its forecasts were very good, but the problem is that unemployment, during its government, has always been rising and, throughout this year, unemployment has always been declining. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Your forecasts should be very good, but the income of families was always decreasing and throughout this year the income of families has always been increasing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u34	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u35	The gentlemen. Members like Spain very much, and so do I. Thanks to its growth, our exports to Spain rose by 4 % this year. The fact is that job creation in Spain has not been accompanied by job creation in Portugal. It is not up to me to judge others, but one thing I say: as for the results, we have more investment, we have more employment, we have less unemployment! Mr, these results are better than the results you have achieved! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u36	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that you say something in reply, but when we say that you do not answer it is because you say something is not answer. You don't answer the questions, you can't answer! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Either you don't know or you don't want to answer—I don't know what's best, instead. in fact, he answers me with unemployment. Mr Prime Minister, unemployment is not an advanced indicator of the economy, on the contrary it brings us the echo of the past. Unemployment and employment bring us the echo of the past, not a projection for the future!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u38	That's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u39	When the economy grows, this will always involve, ahead, more job creation. But the truth is that the economy is stagnant, Prime Minister! There is half of what you have predicted, and you do not give an explanation for this, because you say 'exports are increasing, investment is increasing, growth engines are increasing. So why does the economy not grow? Oh, my God! [[PSD laughter.]] It's a mystery, Prime Minister! I would like to give you the opportunity — a third opportunity — of your reply, if you know, because it makes no sense that, knowingly, you do not want to answer. There is a second question I also wanted to ask you. Since he took office as Prime Minister, we have benefited, like all other euro area countries, from the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. But the truth is that the other countries have had significantly lower interest rates and have come to normalize their yield curve and Portugal has been diverging from them all. at this time, there are interest rates at 10 years about three times higher than Spain, for example, which is here next to us. There was a difference of 70 basis points, now this difference is more than 200 and many base points, which means that, in order to finance at 10 years, Spain pays the third part of what Portugal pays, and we paid three times more than Spain. Why do you think this is happening, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u40	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u41	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I think you are curious about the echoes. According to its logic, if I understood correctly, a company that hires a worker today is not because of what he hopes to grow in the future, but because of what he has grown in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Don't! The job created is even to meet the needs of increasing production. That is why, moreover, investment has been increasing and not decreasing. It is that increased investment is sustained and anchored in a positive expectation of what growth is. As far as rates are concerned, fortunately we have been witnessing positive developments as we have been able to consolidate our financial system. You know the reasons for this instability and, therefore, if you want to go back to the subject, I will gladly return to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u42	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u43	Mr President, we have learned that it is not worth asking Mr. Prime Minister big questions because he can't answer, or he doesn't answer. So we're full. We also found out by the Prime Minister that our 10-year interest rates are improving against our partners. Now, the country cannot take seriously neither a Prime Minister nor a government that distorts reality. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Just look at the data from any credible source about what's going on with our interest to see that they're not improving; contrary to what you say, they're getting worse. But about the financial system, do you know when the cash recapitalization will be done? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u44	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u45	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I must say that I am quite unhappy, because I had immense hope, in my infinite ignorance, that I had been taught something in this debate today and I could have left here knowing what you know and that unfortunately I had no opportunity to learn. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] But I have to admit that I will have to wait for better opportunities to learn. There is one thing I will tell you, and I will not say much more about a matter of responsibility: as you well know, the evolution of the interest rates of the Republic, throughout this year, is mainly explained by the way it was managed by your government,... [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u46	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u47	...and that I am sorry to adjective, the entire consolidation of the financial system. And you know what I mean. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u48	Mr Luís Montenegro, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u49	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u50	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u51	Mr President, when Mr Pedro Passos Coelho had just spoken, the PSD still had 2 seconds — in the electronic picture, the PSD time was going from 2 seconds to 1 second.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u52	It was the 'olometer'!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u53	Mr. Prime Minister spoke during the 18 seconds he had, 49 seconds more. I would therefore like to ask the Bureau that the PSD time may be restored and that it may be used in equal circumstances with the one used by the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u54	Mr President, as you know, it is not the Bureau which, from here on, controls the times. The times are objectively controlled by a computer system controlled from a regimen. Now, if we replace an objective structure with each Member's 'holometer', we will not be able to control any time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Anyway, by the way, I noticed that there was a difference not of 2 seconds, but of 1 second. And precisely because I have seen this difference, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Passos Coelho to intervene in the time he still has, according to the time used by Mr Prime Minister. In any case, I repeat, we will not replace objective methods with « olhometers ». Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to make it clear that I am very clear how you respond. You have wanted, over the past few months, to create the fiction that your government has had a huge misfortune, which has happened to the previous government. I want to tell you, Prime Minister, that unfortunately it is to inherit a request for redemption from the country, as we have inherited. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, it is not worth complaining much of the inheritance you have received, because you wanted to take it. I don't think she came from natural results.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u56	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u57	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, Prime Minister, I would like to tell you that when you want to compare the financial situation of the country and the Portuguese banks, the Portuguese bank in 2011 and 2015, I will be very pleased to have this debate with you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u58	It is now the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group to intervene. The Bureau was informed that there would be two Mrs. Members to intervene, the first being Mr. João Paulo Correia. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u59	Mr President, Prime Minister : Eight months ago, the PSD and the CDS voted against the State budget for 2016. The right had just radicalized positions. It was the beginning of the strategy of deresponsibility and the announcement of misfortunes that have never come true. PSD and CDS have launched a strong attack on the Budget, convinced that the European Commission would bring the proposal down. The deresponsibility of the PSD has come to the point of resigning itself from presenting any proposed amendment to the budget. They did everything to shake markets and rating agencies against the government. The PSD did everything to reach the negotiation of the Budget with the European Commission, and it was an example of the statements of its parliamentary leader last February, referring to the State Budget for 2016 as follows : « It does not deserve the credit of any national and international entities ». We do not forget that it was at that time that the Portuguese discovered that the austerity measures announced as temporary by the previous government had been taken over by the same government as finals in Brussels. But despite lies and irresponsible attacks, the State budget for 2016 deserved the trust of the European Commission. It is appropriate to say that PSD and CDS have gone further than the European Commission. It was the first major defeat of the opposition after the government took over. The second major defeat on the right was the Stability Program. PSD and CDS once again radicalized the attack on the government. It was when we heard the right to ask for a plan b and to insist on the need for additional measures, which were no longer the desire of the right to bring the country back to the policies of violent austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Stability Programme deserves the trust of the European Commission without plan b, i.e. no further measures. The right has again gone further than the European Commission. It was the second great defeat of the opposition. The third major defeat of the PSD and the CDS are precisely the positive results of this governance. The right was convinced that this budget would not lead to the achievement of the budgetary targets, would not lead to the fall of unemployment, would not lead to job creation and would not guarantee the sustainability of social security. The prophecies of misfortune fell before the reality of the facts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are proving that it is possible to reconcile a policy of returns of income, of lower tax burden, of greater tax justice and of greater social justice with good public accounts. The path to the return of cuts in public service salaries, the replacement of cuts in pensions, the reduction of the overtax of IRS, the reduction of the maximum rate of IMI, the replacement of the safeguard clause of IMI and the reduction of the VAT rate of restoration, the increase of the national minimum wage and the updating of social benefits are anchored by good results in budgetary implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As the Banco de Portugal has recently acknowledged, this year's deficit will be close to the European Commission's recommendation, i.e. by 2 %. The primary balance, i.e. the budget balance subtracted from public debt interest expenditure, will increase this year from EUR 370 million to more than EUR 3500 million. Portugal will come out of the excessive deficit procedure, which will be the true 'clean out'. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Contributions to social security have grown close to 5%, driven by employment growth, giving greater sustainability to the social security system. According to INE, the economic sentiment indicator last August is higher than December 2015. The economic fabric consumed the rise of the minimum wage, contrary to the prophecies of Pedro Passos Coelho, which on this subject in March 2013 stated : « The most sensible measure to combat unemployment would be to lower the minimum wage ». And in December 2015, he spoke again about the minimum wage: « Notices that rising minimum wage can lead to more unemployment ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u61	Another myth that fell before the reality of the results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unemployment has decreased month after month. Employment creation has grown steadily. PSD and CDS failed all targets when they were government, but they are still disassembly whenever they cast prognosis on the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, PSD and CDS have led the country to an unprecedented recession. In four years, PSD and CDS have led to genuine fiscal persecution. They took the tax burden to the top of history. 78 measures have been launched to increase taxes and contributions to social security and public subsystems. The policies of concentration of wealth were carried out by a brutal increase in taxes, especially for families with lower incomes. In 2015, Portugal was the OECD country which increased the tax burden on low-income workers. Unemployment has gone off. Emigration fired. Child poverty has worsened. All budget targets failed. They were forced to submit eight amending budgets. The public debt rose to EUR 26 billion and hid the situations of BANIF and the General Deposit Box, for incompetence and for reasons of electoral agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, 11 months ago we started the country's economic and social recovery. The State Budget for 2017 will certainly strengthen this recovery. First of all, and for all purposes, it will be the first Budget executed outside the excessive deficit procedure, with all the gains of internal and external trust coming from there. We are certain of the following: income recovery policy will be pursued; there will be a further increase in the available income of families, particularly low-income families; emphasis-CL efforts will be made to combat inequalities; continuing unemployment decline will be made; a new increase in national minimum wage will be made; and Portugal 2020's leverage will be reflected in the growth of private investment. The Socialist Party is sure that it will be a budget worthy of the support of the parliamentary majority and that it will also deserve the confidence of the economic actors and the European Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u62	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u63	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, in fact, explained why 2016 is the « horrible year » for the PSD. It is the "horrible year" for the PSD because it was the year in which everything the PSD predicted would happen. Not even the devil appeared in September—we are already going in mid-October and see him present himself on the shelves of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders) to apply for entry visa in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why Dr. Pedro Passos Rabbit never manages to get rid of the past. in the three questions he asked, what is the comparison he wanted to make? Would you like to compare the result of your governance with the result of the current government? Don't! But he finished, saying: « I challenge him for a duel to debate and compare how we were in 2015 and how we were in 2011. Do not keep on seeking. ” But no, sirs. Members, what we are discussing is not 2011, this is not a history academy! What we are discussing is the present and future of the Portuguese. And it is in the present and future of the Portuguese that we have to compare ourselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, who for four years said that fulfilling the troika program was not a burden, because the troika program was truly his programme, and that his ambition was even to go beyond the troika, he can only rejoice with the honor he was given to be able to execute his program and to be able to go even beyond his program. That's an honor that rare Prime Ministers could have had. But what is absolutely extraordinary is that, in view of this position, what we have seen is that, being its programme, it has been stained by what hurts most today to the PSD and which does not only have to do with the economic results which it has referred here. Firstly, the question of stability. We arrived at the end of the first year in which, since 2010, we are initiating the discussion of the State Budget for the next year without having had one or two amending budgets in 2016. In four years, you made eight corrective budgets! There is no greater measure of instability, failure in forecasting and budgetary implementation than this result: two amending budgets in each budget year. But above all, there is something that is absolutely destructive and that has to do with the credibility between what is promised to do and what is actually done. On 24 March 2011 Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho said the following: « If any tax adjustment is needed, my guarantee is that it will be more due to taxes on consumption than income from people through taxes, or through wage cuts, or pensions. » This said Dr. Pedro Passos Rabbit on March 24, 2011, year to which Dr. Pedro Passos Rabbit dreamt to return! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, what do we know about what was done with each of these commitments made in March 2011? In fact, consumption taxes have increased. It has since increased the general tax on consumption, VAT, which had an increase in 2012 to raise EUR 2000 million to more tax revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u64	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u65	But direct taxes have also risen, since then the overtax of IRS and pensions taxes. Moreover, in addition to the increase in indirect taxes, in addition to the increase in direct taxes, you still cut wages, you still cut pensions and, more importantly, you committed that if you were in the government today, this year you would have cut more than 600 million euros in the pensions you were already paying. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is why, Mr. Member, I understand that 2016 should be the year deleted in the history of the PSD, because the comparison of 2016 with the exercise of previous governance is not only bad for the PSD from an economic point of view,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u66	Don't worry about PSD! We rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u67	... but it is especially bad for the PSD in two absolutely essential factors: that of stability and the capacity to implement the budget. We managed to deliver on a budget — many doubted that it was possible to do so — and we will, for the first time in 42 years, meet a deficit that others have dreamed of, but that they have never been able to achieve. But it is, above all, horrible with respect to credibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u68	Horrible is lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u69	... because we fulfilled what we promised and they failed every promise they had made: they increased indirect taxes, increased direct taxes, cut wages, cut pensions. I mean, they didn't fulfill a promise they had made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u70	The PS Parliamentary Group continues to speak. Please, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u71	Mr President, Prime Minister, unlike the previous Government, PSD / CDS, which applied to education a vision adjusted to the low-wage impoverishment strategy and the devaluation of qualifications, this government is fully mobilized in the bet on a public school of quality and in the school success of all students. Education was not, in fact, a priority for the right; instead, it was one of the sectors in which it was most uninvestted, going beyond the troika, where resources were most emptied and where teachers, students and parents were merely instruments of economic policies. Strangely or not, the PSD and the CDS are now very concerned with education, with schools, with public services, which have closed in an impious and unbridled way, and make interpellations, debates and balances as if they had a selective amnesia and had forgotten all the harm they caused to the public school, leaving the exhausting of human resources and resources in an unprecedented offensive to dismantle the same public school. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u72	Thus, we had to resume the cycle of investment and appreciation of the school that was abruptly interrupted. The opening of the academic year, Prime Minister, was guided by the formation of classes without problems, the early recruitment of teachers and a number of relevant measures are under way, real measures that are not fiction. I highlight the following: the opening of dozens of new rooms for preschool; the school success promotion program, which involves 800 schools at the moment; the basic education tutorials, which will be an alternative to early vocational education and which will cover 25 000 students; the school textbooks, which reached 80 000 students—and we would also like to know when they will gradually reach all students of 1. the cycle; the new model of evaluation of basic education, which assumes the evidence as an instrument to improve learning and not as an exclusion process; the participatory budget; the increase of social action in school by 3, 3 % in 2016; and the investment in the public school network, which will involve more than 200 works in schools, in a total of more than 200 million euros, alongside the resumption of adult education. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to reassure you, above all, the right and to ask, so that the country you are listening to us can know, what are the priority lines that, in educational matters, will be pursued, aiming at the fulfilment of the great national plans that have been set up, such as, for example, school success, the universalization of preschool and schooling for the 12 years. Can we count on this determined way of strengthening and valuing the school, teachers, parents and students, aiming at more equal opportunities, more democratic citizenship and a right of access to success? We're sure we are. They're counting on us! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u73	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u74	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, thank you very much for your questions. In fact, the alternative development model that we presented in the Agenda for the Decade, which informs the Government Programme and the National Reform Programme and which has to be a true pact of the country as a whole for the next decade, is based on the idea that, if we want to win the economic stagnation, we must bet on the ability to be competitive, more productive. This is not to cut wages, not to destroy rights, not to eliminate public services, but rather to invest in the essential factors for competitiveness in a modern economy, namely in the qualification of people, in innovation, in the modernization of the State, of the Public Administration and of the justice system, in the enhancement of the territory, in the eradication of poverty and in the reduction of inequalities and in the capitalization of businesses so that they can have the conditions to invest. The key to our future is knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore absolutely central to regain lost investment in culture, to ensure stability in investment in science and higher education, to value education, to democratize education and, above all, to beat us for the school success of children who are in the educational system. Finally, we cannot forget a generation that has not had the opportunities for access to education that we are creating today and that has to have a new opportunity to acquire education and training throughout life in order to maintain active citizens and in good conditions to participate in the development of the country in the future. Betting on adult education and lifelong education is essential for active citizens and in good conditions to participate in the development of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the priority of education is transversal, from the universalization of preschool to all children up to 3 years of age to adult education and lifelong training. But this priority must be focused, above all, on the idea of having success in school. Therefore, we had to review the evaluation mechanisms so that this was not a process of elimination, but, on the contrary, it was a process that would allow time and hours to be evaluated, to intervene in time and hours, doing what was necessary to make it more successful. That is why today, in the 800 school groups in the country, we have a program for school success with variable measures, built with the school community to meet the specific needs of each community, from tutoring programs to school support and social action programs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u75	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u76	These programmes must continue. This year we started the distribution of free school textbooks to students of 1. the year and we will continue until we cover all 1. the cycle, because this is an essential goal for having more children with better conditions in each of the schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u77	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u78	I conclude now, Mr President. The best sign that this policy is understood and shared by the educational community — those responsible for education to teachers, assistants and students — was the serene calm with which, for the first time in many years, the opening of this school year was given, without the cheats of 2014 and without the postponements of 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u79	To put questions, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u80	Mr President, Prime Minister Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the European Commission, came to say a few days after the delivery of the State budget for 2017, which will still happen today, that the process of sanctions which the European Commission is currently running against Portugal depends on the State budget for 2017. These statements by the Vice-President of the European Commission are absolutely unacceptable. For the Left Block there is no good sanctions procedure or a bad sanctions procedure, according to the Government to which it refers; we find the unlawful sanctions procedures. We've always found, this has always been our position.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u82	But what no party in this House of the Republic can let go today is that lie, regardless of the differences we have about the sanctions procedures and their legitimacy in the European Commission and in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u84	In fact, the current sanctions procedure is on the State budgets of the PSD and CDS governments and not on the State budget for 2017. An Assembly of the Republic that takes itself seriously must refuse to begin the process of debate of the State Budget for 2017 based on blackmails that are based on a lie. Rejecting this lie is the first step to begin a process of negotiation of the State budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Today is surely a very important day. For the Left Block, the State Budget for 2017 has to have an important brand, it has to be a step forward in relation to what we have already achieved in 2016. We have had many differences, we certainly continue to have and I am sure that, in the specialization process of the State Budget, it will be very clear where we agree and where we disagree. But, for us, it is essential that we take a step for justice in the State Budget for 2017. In 2016, we started the recovery of income, and it was important, very important. But we have a country too unequal, too unfair, in which many people are forgotten in this replacement / recovery of income. The Left Block has drawn attention to the fact that pensioners are those who have not seen any return. It must be said, of course, that in 2016 pensioners were forgotten. On the other hand, we have argued that all pensions must be updated and that, in those pensions where the update, due to inflation, is far below 10 €, it needs an extraordinary increase to reach 10 €. We should be able to achieve this not by sacrifice on those who work, but by asking those who have not participated in the joint effort, because we in the Block do not forget that in the years when more income was lost in wages and pensions, in the years of PSD/CDS government, in which so impoverished those who work and who have worked a whole life, the millionaires have not stopped growing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u86	We therefore need to do justice. We have worked together, with differences, but, I think, with important convergence steps. For the Left Block, it is extremely important the idea that it is possible to tax real estate fortunes so that you can increase pensions. We pride ourselves on a path that is of justice, recovery of income and fulfilment of the Constitution, which is something that no one has for a long time thought important.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u88	Article 104. the Constitution, in its paragraph 3, says that the taxation of heritage should contribute to equality between citizens. The question I ask you is whether you agree with the Left Block that this additional effort to 1 % of the people who have not made any effort, this effort to tax the great real estate fortunes must be devoted to social security, precisely in order to achieve this achievement of equality which is the strengthening of pensions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u89	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u90	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, began by stressing an interesting point. The start of the assessment process of the so-called "Sanctions Process" was aimed at budgetary implementation between 2013 and 2015 and whether or not the PSD and CDS Government had taken effective action to reduce the budget deficit in that period. The discussion was objectively unfair. It is that we can say a lot about the PSD government and the CDS, but we cannot say that it was no more troika than the troika itself. So if something has been censored to you—and it can be censored—it is that and not its opposite. At some point the discussion was no longer well that of the period 2013 / 2015. What was important to discuss was whether in 2016 the current government and the majority of parliament could or did not pursue a path of consolidation of public finances. As it has been going over the year, as we have been familiar with the data of the budget implementation, what has been happening is that in 2016 this government and this majority will achieve a budgetary result that the right has never achieved with the massive doses of austerity that it applied in the country over those four years. The truth is that we have done this, we have paid salaries, we have retired pensions, we have lowered the tax burden, we have invested again in public services, and, nevertheless, we are getting this budget trajectory. So it is no longer 2013 / 2015, it is no longer 2016... No, now it will be in 2017. It's like Dr. Steps Rabbit : he's always waiting for one day the devil to show up! I am sure that if one day in nine years, the country has a problem, the Vice-President of the European Commission and Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho will say "we have well advised that one day there would be a problem. Well, that's not acceptable! The discussion is about 2013 / 2015, this evaluation has to be made and, on this, our position is very clear: the country deserves no penalty and, as it did not have any penalty in the fines, it should not have any penalty from the point of view of suspension of funds. This is the position, and that is why we should hit. As far as the second question is concerned, you are absolutely right. We have to make choices to keep the balance, and the options are very clear: we want to increase the available income of families, and for that we need resources. Where can we go for resources? labour income or other sources of income. Our option is clear: it should not be to the income of work. In order to be fair, we must redistribute the tax burden which mainly taxes work on other forms of income or on other forms of wealth. That is why I can say - in fact - that the budget proposal which today will enter the House will undoubtedly say what is the function and why it is taxing the great real estate. The reason will be a source of diversification of social security financing, a contribution to strengthening the sustainability of our social security system and, therefore, what the Budget will say is that this revenue will be allocated to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security to, I repeat, strengthen the sustainability of our social security system. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] No, it will not be a tax to pay expenditure for 2017. It's not gonna be a tax to pay the expense we're going to make today. Don't! It will be a property tax to sustain in a safe way and strengthen the security that we all have to have in our social security system. This revenue on wealth will not finance the expenditure of 2017, but rather the future expenditure with generations of taxpayers who one day have to have the guarantee that no government will withdraw their pension and that any government will comply with the Constitution paying the pension they have right because that is the contract of trust that citizens have with the State and with social security. So, yes, the taxation of wealth will serve to ensure greater justice, will serve to ensure a more solid social security system, so it will be a revenue assigned to the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u91	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u92	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have always said that taxing large real estate profits makes sense if it is to increase pensions, makes sense if it is for social security. I'm glad you did! We'll see about the rest. A State budget is always a negotiation, a State budget is not like the fish that « before being already was».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u93	That's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u94	Don't! It's worked, it's negotiated... but here we will be every day, at all times, and we will do this work in the specialty. There is one issue I want to talk about, because it is particularly important for us in the debate on the State budget. As a matter which is not strictly budgetary or whose impact is not even primarily budgetary, it is a matter of great importance in the recovery of income from those who live in their work in Portugal. For the Left Block, the strategy of recovery of income must reach all generations. One third of the young people in Portugal are unemployed, two thirds of the workers are precarious, and the precarious and precarious are always the first to stay unemployed and they are also those who have less income. The wages of a precarious worker or a precarious worker shall be less than 25 % of a non precarious worker's salary. If we have two people in the same job, with the same career years, with the same qualifications, with the same skills, with the same capacity, to which the precarious contract receives three and a half wages less than the one with an effective contract. This has to end! For us to understand: it is as if, in relation to two workers, one beside the other, one of them, although he continues to work until December, he begins to lose his salary in September. It's not acceptable! Combating precariousness is the main weapon for the recovery of income to all generations and is the main weapon of justice, dignity and the distribution of wealth in our country. For the Left Block, the work of the Budget we are doing can only make sense if it is accompanied by clear measures to combat precariousness, from the outset fighting the use of false stages, false scholarships, false voluntary work, false temporary work and limiting temporary work enterprises, whose income has been rising year after year, at the same time that the wages of those who work have come down year after year. Therefore, for this Budget, the challenge that the Left Block already faces, beyond every sectoral measure that we will see in the specialty and that we are concerned about, because 2017 has to be a year of change to investment in order to be able to respond to health, education, productive sectors, to create jobs, is that we will only have a result that reaches all people if we are able to combat precariousness and thus respond to the dignity and income of all generations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u95	Mr. Prime Minister, to answer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u96	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I am following her on a fundamental point: precariousness is today the biggest challenge in our labour market. It is one of our biggest economic challenges. Companies based on precariousness are not companies that can ever be productive, because productivity implies training, implies knowledge, involves learning working methods. And who is precarious nor wears the company shirt, nor does the company invest in that labor relationship. Labour relations based on precariousness completely destroy the economy we need. Therefore, in the context of social dialogue, Mr Minister for Labour and Social Security presented an initiative for discussion with the partners in order to tackle the precariousness: a national programme to combat precariousness. The state began to set an example — and should - and should do so — with the lifting of the false stages of integration, it began to set an example with a new regime for master and doctoral fellows, which was a form of precariousness of the relationship within higher education. We know that we must continue this course in the Budget, but also outside the Budget, because, as an old President of the Republic would say, «there is more life than the Budget». And, in this life beyond Budget, it is essential to attack precariousness. in the year before being Prime Minister, I had the opportunity to speak directly with many of the young people who emigrated from Portugal in the last four years. I participated with groups of them in several sessions, one personally, another via Skype, and what impressed me most was that the general had emigrated not because I had not found paid occupation in Portugal, but because I had not found in Portugal a minimum job with quality, dignity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u97	I ask you to conclude Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u98	... a minimum of employment that would provide them with prospects for the future. And we lose that generation is impoverishing our growth potential. If we want to set the talents that we form, if we want to recover the talents that have emigrated, we need to have a job market that not only manages jobs, but also quality jobs, decent jobs, stable jobs, because that is what we need to develop our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u99	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u100	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, in the Budget and beyond the Budget, this will certainly be a fight that we will fight together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u101	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u102	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, before we moved on to today's issues, and because I was quite impressed at the last fortnight's debate with the graphics that showed us, that they did not have good readability, certainly also affected by the captivatings, and that, moreover, did not correspond to reality, brought him a gift that he could use and put in his office — I was careful to put a pink tape in honor of his government — to show him what is the homologous variation. These are three graphs: GDP (gross domestic product ), investment and exports. I will not spend any more time, but I will tell you that these are graphs of this kind for Mr. Prime Minister to be able to save and not spend money on Mr. Minister for Finance! [[CDS-PP applause.]] They are true, the source is the INE (National Institute of Statistics ). [[At the moment, the speaker brought the figures he mentioned to the Prime Minister.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would now like to ask you questions about today and talk to you about the present time. The first question I wanted to ask, because I think today is the question that all Portuguese and all companies are asking, is the following: how will the new estate tax be? Of course you will tell me that today we will have an opportunity to meet in the State Budget, but now, because you are in this House, and as a deference to these parliamentarians, I asked you which companies are taking and which ones are outside. I have read in the newspapers that tourism and industry are being safeguarded, and I was asking you where the agriculture is, where the services are, where the trade is. Are they or are they not protected from this tax? I would like to know what the value is, since we have heard of 250 000, 500 000 and today the news speaks of 600 000. So, Prime Minister, is that 600 000? That's 800,000? What can you tell me about this matter? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u103	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u104	Mr President, Mrs Assunção Cristas, first of all, I would like to thank you for offering me a gift, above and above the applicant for choosing a pink tape.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u105	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u106	He believed, in fact, that it was supposed to be red red, such the squirm that he has described as having happened in the Socialist Party, and in particular in myself,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... but I see you had the kindness to book the redest red for the PCP and keep the PS with the proper pink tone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u107	Charged pink!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u108	I want to thank you, but I just hope you also had the opportunity to correct that graph, which was even in several outdoors, to denounce the fall of foreign investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u109	That it was fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u110	...for, as you know, the source should be wrong, because foreign investment has come up and has not come down. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards the State budget, it is not worth having anxiety, because soon in the afternoon Mr Finance Minister will deliver the proposal to Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic and, about 5 o'clock in the afternoon, will give the usual press conference at the Nob Hall of the Ministry of Finance, where he will have the opportunity to present the State budget effectively proposed by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic and on which the debates will be triggered. From that time on, Mrs Deputy, until 29 November — it will certainly remain in the leadership of the CDS-PP — there will be no shortage of opportunities for us to discuss the State budget for 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u111	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u112	Mr President, Prime Minister, register and I understand that the Left Block can respond and that the CDS cannot, nor the Portuguese, be concerned about these taxes. At the same time, we have also learned that the Government believes that there is a problem of social security sustainability and therefore believes that sources need to be diversified and will therefore allocate new taxes, with more money, to social security. It is something new that we will certainly also have the opportunity to debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u113	Oh, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u114	I would like to ask you — and I admit that the answer is the same — what we can expect of the overtax. Do you or do you not keep your word? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u115	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u116	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I recommend that you read the Government's Programme to see how one of the central proposals of the Government's Programme was to strengthen the sustainability of social security through the diversification of its sources of funding. But I realized that, in your question, a concordance was implied, i.e. that there must be diversification of sources of funding and that taxing the estate to confer on the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security is perhaps a good use, especially if it does not cover the rustic buildings, with which, in the previous question, I also found some agreement. Mrs. Member, don't ask a lot of questions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u117	I ask the questions, I have no answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u118	... do not then have much difficulty voting against a tax which is, after all, designed so that you too can truly agree. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, honourable Member, there is one thing I can assure you about your second question, namely whether we are going to do what I promised. Yeah, let's do what I promised! As I did in 2016,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u119	In 2016, it did not comply!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u120	... we will also do in 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u121	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u122	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I will always have to ask the questions, although unfortunately I do not have any answers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u123	But now, on social security, let me tell you that what I liked was to have a deal with a basic proposal, presented by the CDS in this House, which is to tell each person, every year, what he can count on and what he can expect from his pension. Unfortunately, that didn't happen! [[CDS-PP applause.]] With regard to the matter of fulfilling the word, I still remember a candidate from the Prime Minister who said he had finished austerity. What we see is more and more austerity, with different clothes, different clothes, a austerity on the left, an austerity of indirect taxes, which is not sensitive to the taxpayer's pocket, because they all pay the same. That's what we see now! We came in 2016 and it seems we will also see in 2017. But it is not only about taxes that I think Mr. Prime Minister has to make a mistake; on public spending and captivating also has to do. What I wanted to ask you was what it tells all Portuguese today, about health, when we heard the professional orders to say that the sector is collapsing and we see debt in the health sector growing exponentially — predictably, at the end of the year, it will be twice as much of what was left in 2015 ; what it tells cancer patients who are not able to have the surgery on time and are transferred to other hospitals; what it tells the parents of the children — Mrs. Susana Amador spoke of it — for example, at the António Nobre Basic School, who saw the classes interrupted because there were no operational assistants; what it tells the users of the public transport services, Mr. Prime Minister, those who are hours and hours waiting for the metro or bus to arrive, those who did not even get a ticket;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u125	...what it tells the security forces, who wait for the reinforcement of 500 agents. That's what I'd like Mr. Prime Minister to answer. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u126	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u127	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, the State Budget will say a lot, but your questions are a big answer, because when the CDS-PP comes here to present itself as the champion of defending the increase in public expenditure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u128	No, no! You're so wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u129	... as the champion of defense of public services, such as the champion of defense of public companies, from transportation to health, says everything about what is the position of the CDS : it really has nothing to criticize.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u130	There's no more life beyond the deficit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u131	What you want is, purely and simply, trying to get into the wind movement. But, honourable Member, there is something I can tell you, paying back, now, the kindness you had to bring, properly wrapped, your graphics. [[At the moment, the Prime Minister has displayed a chart on the variation of the tax burden.]] It is that the variation in the tax burden between the periods indicated in the chart to orange and purple—in fact, sorry, they should be marked to orange and blue, it is true, because the honourable Member was also part of this narrative—that is, the tax burden in 2013, 2014 and 2015 always rose, decreasing but rose, in 2016 decreased and in 2017 it will again decrease. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u132	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u133	What it means, Mrs Deputies, is that the budget of the State which will enter the Assembly of the Republic soon afternoon will meet your concern, i.e., it will tax the Portuguese less. It will also have another concern, which I do not know is shared, but which is very important, that it is above all that it is to be more fair to all Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u134	I still have time, you have the floor of Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u135	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact you have "the knife and cheese in your hand" and make captives, and the seizures mean a cut-off of expenditure, mean a huge attack on public services. Your government and radical left-wing government are the government of the huge attack on public services... [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] ...and it is also the government's huge public investment attack.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u136	There's something stinking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u137	And that's what I'm going to want to see when we look at this year's final accounts. But I also say something else to you, Prime Minister: you do not need a corrective budget. You know why? Because it is enough to close the « tap ». Besides, it doesn't even have to be cut, because things weren't even there. One thing is putting a number, another thing is running that number, and that's what we're going to see at the end of the year. I'm moving on to another topic, Prime Minister. About your trip to China, I wanted to ask you what it was like to tell you about golden visas and an investment attraction program for Portugal, of which I failed, I remember, in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u138	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u139	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u140	Yeah. I have quotes here, but I don't have time to mention them anymore. I also remind you that in 2015 it defended the creation of a capitalisation fund for companies to be financed through the money of the golden visas. Where is he? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u141	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u142	Mr President, Mrs Assunção Cristas, on this second question, I would just suggest that you talk to Dr. Paulo Portas, because he may report how the revision of the legislation of the visasgold was done when I was already in the leadership of the Socialist Party, with my agreement, through Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes. It's just that, Mrs. Member, that saved you from asking questions that have no reason to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u143	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u144	As for the capitalisation fund, one of the things I said in China was: there will be this capitalisation fund so that the investment allowed by the vissgold is not consumed solely and exclusively in the flow of real estate and can be applied in productive companies that need to be capitalised, because we need companies in good conditions to invest, create jobs and produce wealth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I already have enough years of political life to expect to hear almost everything, but really, Mrs Deputies, I have to give you a prize because you can surprise me. And the most extraordinary fact is this: coming from the CDS the censorship about cutting in execution of public expenditure is that I was no longer, in no way, prepared to be able to hear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u145	Did you think he had the social action monopoly? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u146	After being the farmer's champion, now being the champion of the increase in public expenditure, Mrs... I don't know what you're saying! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u147	Mr Prime Minister, you can still think of what to say in the answer to the next question by Mrs Assumption Cristas, who still has time. You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u148	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, get used to it! We are here to defend the users and also those who have been deceived by the electoral promises of their government, which promised the end of austerity and, after all, makes a huge attack on public services. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Still on the question of golden visas, let me just tell you that you stated in 2014 in Troy that investment in Portugal could not be limited to the mobilization of capital to buy companies in privatization or to exchange visasgold for the purchase of real estate. But with regard to the investment attraction, I wanted to know what I said in China about a September IGCP note—page 30 Presentation to Investors—which refers to labour flexibility and the reduction of the extension of collective labour agreements as critical factors in attracting investment. Do you agree with these reforms or will you limit them? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u149	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u150	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, as you know, we believe that it is necessary to strengthen, stabilize and dignify the labour market and not to bet on its fragility. But, Mrs. Member, when the incomes of families are recovered, when the tax burden is low, do you speak of austerity? Oh, my God! Mrs. Member, you lost a good four years to talk about austerity! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u151	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u152	Mr President, Prime Minister, well, I would like to know where the IRC reform is, with the effective rate for companies to continue to fall, and now I would like to know whether it will approve the proposal of the CDS of tax credit for investment, because we need a shock, yes, but it is not consumption, it is investment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u153	Who approves us, it's not Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u154	Finally, Mr Prime Minister, finding it relevant that this question is also asked to you today, because it is of extraordinary importance for our country and in particular for the Autonomous Region of the Azores and for the Third Island : China is known to be interested in installing itself in the Atlantic, in a scientific research framework in Portugal. I read a news where the government seemed to welcome this interest, including with regard to the use of the Lajes Base. I would like to know if you confirm, Mr Prime Minister, whether there is any concrete proposal put on the table by the Chinese and also how the Americans are in this "film" and if they themselves have any proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u156	...because I also remember having heard about, a few months ago, the transformation of American presence into a strong investment component in science, particularly connected to the sea and the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u158	I really hope, Mr Prime Minister, that your tone in this matter will be less light. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u159	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u160	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, on the first question, it is very simple: the CDS apparently ignored one of the few good measures of the previous government, which was the creation of the investment support tax system. It therefore proposes not to improve an existing system, which companies already know and will have easy to execute, but seek to double it, adding as the only new thing already contained in the Government Programme and which will include the State Budget for 2017, which is the increase of 5 million to 10 million of the ceiling accessible by companies, under the existing regime, which they already know and on which no new information is needed. But I am sure that, by presenting this proposal to the Government, it will deserve the support of the CDS. As for the use of the Lajes Base in the Azores, what we have said, both in Lisbon and in the Azores, either in Washington or in Beijing, in all places, is very simple: first, we do not give up negotiating with the American authorities and await a final assessment on the use of the Lajes Air Base ; second, it is an infrastructure that cannot be wasted and must be used. The Azores are a centre of excellence, because of their conditions, for scientific research...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u161	I ask you to synthesize, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u162	I will now finish, Mr President. As I said, the Azores are a centre of excellence for scientific research on the deep sea, on climate change, on vulcanology, and we have developed open contacts with all institutions worldwide, from the outset with the national scientific community, so that there can be a scientific research platform. We have worked very hard, as I have had the opportunity to say, with the Secretary of Energy of the Obama Government, which is, in fact, originating in the Azores, Mr Ernest Moniz, in view of this partnership.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u163	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u164	But in the same way that we are open to working with Americans, English, French, Germans, we are also open to working with Chinese, because, as I said in that quote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u165	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u166	... our relationship with Chinese investors cannot only be "come here to acquire assets that already exist" without adding anything or simply drain real estate that is in the assets of banks, waiting to be disposed of.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u167	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u168	There is a new relationship with China that we have to build and that is useful, mutually, to build. This is the seed that has been laid to the earth, and here we will be in the years to be able to reap it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u169	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u170	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have made our Parliamentary Days in Porto this week, which have given particular attention to the problems of production, employment and rights, problems that are at the heart of Portuguese concerns. We are also on the eve of initiating a process of discussion of the State Budget for 2017. Since the State budget largely determines the development of the country's economic and social situation, the fact is that national economic and social problems require wider responses. in our Parliamentary Days, in the contacts that have allowed—as in the rest of the country we have been through—we continue to find expectations regarding these responses that cannot be ignored, since it is very precisely created, which is to correspond to new advances in the replacement and return of labour and social rights withdrawn in recent years. To the need to restore the rights and income of employees of the Public Administration, who have been cut and withdrawn in recent years, there is also the need to respond to the problems of private sector workers, to value the collective bargaining and the rights enshrined therein, to value wages and to combat precariousness. The answer to these problems must be found in the Budget, but goes beyond the Budget, requires other measures and options. The same is true of the concerns of pensioners and pensioners—in particular, the satisfaction of the fair expectations of hundreds of thousands of pensioners—to see their pensions properly valued and recovered. It is true that today's support for pension increases is wider. in the State Budget for 2016, I beat us alone by the actual increase in pensions, with the proposal of increase of 10 €. When many were content with the small increases that resulted from the automatic update and talked about increasing only the minimum pensions, the PCP stressed that this was not enough and continued to beat itself by valuing the contribution careers, because only that was possible, considering that those who worked, sometimes an entire life, have the right to have an increased and valued pension. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u171	Mr President, I apologize for interrupting you, but there are many Members of the CDS-PP to speak up. I would ask you to create conditions for Mr Jerónimo de Sousa to be heard. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] There are many of you. Ladies and gentlemen speaking standing in the last seats and that the gentlemen. Members sitting in the front row cannot see — they do not have an 'olhometer' — which impairs the attention due to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u172	It's all right, Mr. President. I wasn't talking to the PSD and the CDS, I was talking to the government, obviously. [[PCP's laughs and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u173	I'm glad to warn you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u174	Our persistence has borne fruit and is now wider. The discussion today is no longer in the sense of whether or not it is possible to increase but, yes, how much the increase will be and under what conditions it will be made. It was worth insisting, it was worth talking. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u175	The same can be said of the measures that are necessary to support our productive sectors and our national production, which are structural elements to get out of the economic situation in which we are, to create jobs, to develop the country. A country that does not produce, that does not grow, that does not develop has no future. It is only possible to increase national production sustainably by defending, modernising and developing the country's productive apparatus, taking into account, in particular, what already exists in fisheries, industry, agriculture, but always with the vision — which Mr. Prime Minister mentioned here — of the dynamics of modernization and investment, because it is important that public investment also drags the private. It is also important to welcome foreign investment, when it translates into production, employment, qualification and technology transfer, but what is required from now on is to support small and medium-sized enterprises with very concrete measures aimed at improving their performance. It is to these questions and considerations that we would like to begin by obtaining answers from the Government. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u176	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u177	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you are right, we must at the same time have the ability to meet the expectations and actual needs of our population in order to see lost income recovered. They've been very hard years and there's been a long time to recover. This is a difficult task today, such the dimension of the gap that has been opened. But we have come to take a course under the minimum wage, public service salaries, private sector salaries, pensioners' incomes. It is a path that has been initiated, which cannot be interrupted and which, on the contrary, must be continued. It is therefore absolutely crucial to unlock collective bargaining. Obviously, it is necessary, at the level of each of the sectors of activity, where there are better conditions, to measure well the capacity that must be able to advance, in a sustained way, in the recovery of income and in a fairer sharing of prosperity generated by work. For this reason, we value social dialogue, value social dialogue, value collective bargaining and find it essential that it be unlocked. The message we have given to the social partners is that it is necessary to unlock collective bargaining so that the State does not have to use the mechanisms provided for in the law so that the contract does not remain blocked. At the same time, we must move forward in creating conditions for companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, to be able to invest. To this end, it is essential that we give priority to speeding up the implementation of the Community funds, the stabilization of the financial system is essential, and it is necessary to create conditions for the treasury of small and medium-sized enterprises not to be so suffocated and businesses have better conditions for investment, job creation, wealth generation and contribution to the development of the country. In fact, it is necessary to attract foreign direct investment, but we need to know what we want to attract, because we do not have enough direct investment to buy what is already here. What we are interested in - said, and well, Mr Commissioner - is the investment that brings new assets, that manages new jobs, that generates new wealth in producing. That is the effort that needs to be made, and I think we are all together to be able to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u178	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u179	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, allow me to put another relevant issue. We do not know that, as in 2016, the State Budget for 2017 is faced with enormous pressures, constraints and even blackmails and threats, both internal and external, that it is necessary to deal with and not to clutter. But there is a set of measures for which we would like to obtain a response from the Government, which has to do with one of the elements that most penalises the lives of families and the development of economic activity, which is the cost of energy and fuel. The situation we have reached, with one of the most expensive energy invoices in Europe, is unsustainable, severely penalises the living conditions of Portuguese and also compromises economic activity, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. This situation is not disconnected from the privatization, segmentation and liberalisation of the electro-productive system and the refining of oil. And it is also not disconnected from the control of this sector by private monopolies, generally dominated by foreign capital. The question is therefore to take measures to reduce the costs of electricity, gas, fuel, reflecting it on tariffs: reduce electricity costs, with the guarantee of power, initiating a process with a view to the elimination of contracts that guarantee historical income to electro-productive companies, putting an end to undue benefits and that have been paid for years in the area of renewable energy; reduce costs with natural gas, reducing the fees with the funds released by the return to consumers of the margins absorbed by Galp in contracts with Algeria and Nigeria; reduce the costs of the price of bottle gas, in particular by reducing it by means of tax reduction...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u180	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u181	I'm only asking for 10 seconds, Mr. President. I am also referring to the reduction of costs with fuel, from measures which the CFP will bring here to the discussion on 27 October, with a system of pricing appropriate to the needs of families, businesses, the development of the economic activities of our country, to avoid inequality in relation to other countries. We speak so much in competition, in competitiveness, and it is impossible to compete in this situation, with these energy prices. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u182	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u183	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we accompany you in the concern of the need to reduce costs, in particular the energy costs of our productive sector. And this reduction, both for businesses and for families, is a concern. the State budget for 2016 was taken a step of the greatest importance in relation to the social tariff. The social rate, which had been created in the previous legislation, covered very few families and already covered about 700 000 families this year, having almost doubled the number of families covered. We are making a very rigorous assessment of the contractual framework, both for conventional production and for renewable energy production. Many of the contracts are in the end of contractualization and therefore important part of these incomes will disappear and will no longer burden the productive activity. We must make incremental improvements to improve the situation. Today is also an important day, because it will be the day when ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity) announces the new rates. We are looking forward to checking what will be the rate fixed this year, compared with the rates fixed in previous years. What I can tell you, Mr President, is that we share this objective and that we must continue to work to achieve it, both for the families and for the companies in the productive sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u184	Mr André Silva has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u185	Mr President, Prime Minister, this State budget for 2017 should follow a bold trend in investment in electric mobility, especially in collective transport. Only 1 % of vehicles in Portugal are electric, numbers far below the best examples in Europe. The NAP has already proposed to the Government a measure aimed at the gradual renewal of all public fleets, both heavy passenger transport and light cars, for electric vehicles. Because the state must be the beacon of electric mobility and the government must follow a new environmental awareness, we wanted to know what the government's willingness to discuss with the NAP, in the field of specialty, is a temporary and programmatic goal for this renewal. We also defend that Portugal has to set the 2030 target with the design of and from which only electric vehicles are marketed in our country. Mr Prime Minister, what is the Government's will to commit itself to this ambitious but inevitable goal? Are we going to make our country an example of sustainable mobility policies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u186	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u187	Mr President, Mr André Silva, thank you very much for the questions. Mr President, as you know, we have historically a commitment to electric mobility. One of the biggest mistakes made in this country was that in 2011 the priority and position that Portugal had at the forefront of promoting electric mobility had been discontinued. Unfortunately, the last Minister of the Environment of the former Government came too late to serve in order to reverse in good time much of the useful time that had been wasted at the start of the former Government. Now, we have to reposition and move forward, and we have goals and goals. We aim to have 1300 electric vehicles in all of the Public Administration, 180 already next year. The strategy for the installation of the charging network has been resumed since the fast-seat charging network in the main motorways, and the procurement manuals for the bus fleets of public companies will take due account of the promotion of electric mobility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u188	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u189	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there are issues that simply have not reached these debates. And, between constant discussions about an illusory infinite growth, we are neglecting key areas for the future of the country, as is the case with the health of our children. In Portugal, children up to 14 years of age will be consuming more than 5 million doses of ritonavir to combat situations of hyperactivity and attention deficit. There are several entities that have already warned of the risks of overmedicating children and young people with drugs for which long-term effects are unknown. Once again the citizens, in this case the children, are serving as guinea pigs to the pharmaceutical industry, a business of EUR 7, EUR 5 million in 2013 only with the sale of ritalin, this substance which, Mr. Prime Minister, is supposed to be administered only last resort and which does not resolve but postpones the problem. Mr Prime Minister, the Government cannot continue to close its eyes on this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u190	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u191	Appropriate and urgent responses are needed. What are you thinking of doing in this regard?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u192	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u193	Mr President, Mr André Silva, in the 7 seconds I have, I will say that, as you know, one of the goals of the Government is to ensure the existence of a family doctor to each Portuguese by the end of next year. Strengthening primary health care is the first condition for us to arrive early and closer to each of the children. And not only will we complete the primary health care network with more family doctors, but also with the diversification of valences, from oral health to mental health. Only with this diversification can we improve the quality of service delivery in the National Health Service, in particular in order to have better pedopsychiatric assistance to Portuguese children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u194	We have reached the end of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. I thank the members of the Government and the Prime Minister for their presence. Let us now enter the voting period. While the services prepare the terminals for verification of the deliberation quorum, I would like to stress that the very important elections are still being held for the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, for the President of the Economic and Social Council, for a Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic and for the Council of Radio and Television of Portugal, SA, in Sala D. Maria. On the other hand, by associating myself, of course, with all the satisfaction already expressed here in due course by the House on the election of our compatriot António Guterres to UN Secretary-General, I wanted to say that the jury constituted within the framework of 1. the Commission has also decided to award Eng.António Guterres the Human Rights Award 2016. [[PSD, PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and Os Verdes applause.]] Very quickly, as we prepare for the voting period, Mr President of 1. the Commission, Mr Bacellar de Vasconcelos, will explain how this award has been awarded. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u195	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, it was a happy circumstance which determined the coincidence on the same day that the jury constituted within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees unanimously approved the proposal of the name of Antonio Guterres for the 2016 Human Rights Prize, the General Assembly of the United Nations has appointed him to be its next Secretary-General. However, it was not for this reason that the jury—and it is my duty - to explain it in the name of the collegial deliberation taken by all the parliamentary groups that have joined it—to distinguish this year the figure of Antonio Guterres, since, of course, the well-known circumstances of the present world make us re-rejuvenate in hope with his appointment for these very high functions. The jury's deliberation reflected the human figure, the public man Antonio Guterres. It is not even due to the intention of pointing out the termination of functions, which in fact has been carried out in an exemplary manner as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The deliberation contemplates the recognition of a figure that, in the most diverse aspects of professional, political and civic activity, has fulfilled throughout his life. It was the relevance of this service, of this attitude, of that example which, by itself and by itself, justified this deliberation. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. This decision will have to be ratified at the Leaders' Conference, which we will do next. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the electronic framework, 209 Members are present, to whom six more Members who have not been able to sign up are added. Members Elsa Pais, Edite Estrela, Jorge Moreira da Silva, José de Matos Correia, Sandra Pereira and Álvaro Castello-Branco, making a total of 215 Members. Before we proceed to the vote, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u197	I'll inform you. Members who have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President to Bill 322 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the forest management account ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission and draft resolutions 509 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — proposes the preservation of the public service of ISBN ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 510 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate and total requalification of EN125 between Vila do Bispo and Vila Real de Santo António and the replacement of the construction of the variants and other parts contained in the initial contract ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote. Let us vote first on vote No 138 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to Juan Manuel Santos ( CDS-PP ), which will be read by Secretary Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on 7 October, the President of Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos, was awarded with the Nobel Peace Prize, for his efforts to national reconciliation and in the realization of a historic peace agreement signed at the end of September, with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC ), marking the end of the armed conflict that lasted for more than five decades, which killed more than 200,000 people and indiscriminately displaced nearly 7 million Colombians from their homes. As a Colombian, he was concerned about Colombia's future. Sensible to the suffering, injustice and degradation of the economic and social situation of his country, Juan Manuel Santos chose the peace process as a priority cause, valuing commitment, unity and discretion in achieving stable and lasting peace. in a constructive way, although critical when necessary, it always focused on dialogue between the parties. For four years, it was this spirit that took place in negotiations with those responsible for the guerrilla organization. The political imperative of ending the intra-Columbian conflict, assumed by President Santos, is a guarantee of a safer and more promising future for the people of Colombia and impresses a basic orientation for the country. His performance therefore deserves to be graduated with the highest distinction in the service of peace. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes and welcomes the President of Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos, for his distinction with the Nobel Peace Prize. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u201	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u202	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u203	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u204	All right, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to vote No 139 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for the peace process in Colombia ( PCP ), which I call on Secretary Idália Serrão to do the right thing to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Starting in 2012, in Havana, in the Republic of Cuba, a formal process of peace talks between the Government of Colombia, led by President Juan Manuel Santos, and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia — People's Army (FARC-EP ), led by Timothy Jiménez, having as guarantor the Government of Cuba and the Government of Norway and as facilitators the Government of Venezuela and the Government of Chile, conversations that, at the end of six years, reached a good end on 24 August with the Final Agreement for the Construction of a Stable and Lasting Peace in Colombia, officially signed on 26 September 2016, in Cartagena, Colombia. The Agreement reached in the peace dialogues in Havana was subsequently referred to on 2 October and did not receive the necessary support for its immediate adoption by a minimum margin. There are interests that continue to prevent the conquest of peace from continuing with a war that has had so dramatic consequences for the Colombian people. however, the mobilization of social forces in Colombia for peace with social justice in this country is broadened. Protocols relating to the cessation of fire and bilateral and definitive hostilities have begun to apply, as the humanitarian confidence-building measures continue to move forward. in the same sense, peace talks take place between the Government of Colombia and the National Liberation Army (ELN ). Meanwhile, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the President of Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos. The prospect of a final peace in Colombia represents, in itself, an important event for that country, for Latin America and for the world by raising renewed expectations for a political solution to a conflict that has been going on for more than 50 years, which means a turn-around and that goes towards meeting the just and legitimate aspirations and demands of the Colombian people for social justice, giving solution to the serious political and social problems that have been the cause of the armed conflict, in particular from the full implementation and implementation of the terms and guarantees of the Agreement reached. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : 1 - Welcomes the efforts to build peace in Colombia, which enables a better future, peace, sovereignty and social justice for the Colombian people; 2 - Considers that the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2016 should be seen as a recognition and incentive for the realization of the Colombian people's will for peace. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u206	Thank you, Secretary Idália Serrão. We shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on a request submitted by the PSD for discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without a vote, for a period of 90 days, of Bill No. 292 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the status of low-density territories ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 482 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide competent municipal, inter-municipal and multi-municipal authorities with access to the mechanism established for the automatic allocation of social energy tariffs as a contribution to the adequacy and improvement of the social water tariffs approved by them ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u207	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u208	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u209	Mr President, it is only to announce that we are going to deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u210	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We moved on to draft resolution No 493 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve public access to public water, sanitation and waste services ( CFP ) for which separate votes have been requested. So let us start by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstains from BE and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP and the Greens and with abstentions from the PS, BE and the NAP.]] The vote on point 3 shall follow. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on point 5. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 464 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene on the national road No 2 to transform this route into a 'product'of economic interest and tourism promotion ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 495 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish the longitudinal route of Portugal — EN2 and its valuation ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 135 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Combats precariousness by preventing the use of active public employment measures in order to meet the permanent needs of public services, businesses and other entities ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 497 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for the eradication of employment-inclusion contracts as a mechanism for the completion of permanent needs, for the recognition of employment contracts and for the supervision of the stages promoted by IEFP ( BE ), for which the PS has requested the separate vote of point 2. So, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin by voting on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 1, 3, 4 and 5 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 494 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the measures necessary for the Union to fully comply with the commitments undertaken under the project PIN in Salgada Stones ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and the CDS-PP.]] [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 499 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the thermal tourism of the Key / Weight of the River ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment is made to the Criminal Code and transposes Directive 2014 / 62 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the criminal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000 / 383 / JHA. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 86 to 90 of the Diário, concerning the plenary meetings of the previous Legislative Session of 1, 6, 7 and 20 July 2016 and the meeting of the Permanent Commission of 8 September 2016. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we also have to vote for three opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on their reports and opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Local Court — Cable Section — J3, Vila Nova de Gaia, Comarca do Porto, Case No 11393 / 15.5T8LSB, the opinion of the Sub-Commission is to authorize Mr Miguel Santos ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Local Criminal Chamber of Santo Tirso, Case No. 897 / 14.7TAST, the opinion of the Sub-Commission is intended to authorize Mrs. Joana Lima ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u214	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Local Court Criminal Section of Santo Tirso, Case No 320 / 14.7TAST, the opinion of the Sub-Commission is intended to authorize Mrs Joana Lima ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings under the relevant cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-14.u216	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are thus finishing our agenda today. I recall that the votes for the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, for President of the Economic and Social Council, for a Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic and for the Council of Radio and Television of Portugal ( SA ) continue to take place until 2 p.m. in Conference Room D. Maria. The next plenary meeting will be on Wednesday, 19 October, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: the first point is the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process ; of point two is the general discussion of the bill No. 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates a transitional scheme applicable to IRS income declarations for 2015, which allows the option for joint taxation in declarations delivered outside the statutory deadlines; The joint assessment of the proposals of lein. 33 / XIII ( 2 ) is followed in point three. ( a ) — Creates and regulates the national oncological register, including its purposes, the data that are collected, the forms of access, the entity responsible for its administration and database processing, 34 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — The definition and regulation of the acts of biologist, nurse, pharmacist, doctor, dentist, nutritionist and psychologist and 32 / XIII ( 2 ) is carried out. ( a ) — establishes the legal system of quality and safety relating to the donation, collection, analysis, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human tissues and cells and procedures for verifying the equivalence of quality standards and safety of imported tissues and cells and makes the second amendment to Law No 12 / 2009 of 26 March transposing Commission Directive 2015 / 565 / EU of 8 April amending Commission Directive 2006 / 86 / EC of 24 October as regards certain technical requirements for the codification of human tissues and cells and Commission Directive 2015 / 566 / EU of 8 April. of the last point is the general debate of Bill No 38 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves standards for the protection of citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke and measures to reduce demand related to dependence and cessation of consumption, covering the concept of smoking new non-burning tobacco products that produce aerosols, vapours, gases or inhalable particles and reinforcing measures to apply to these new products in the field of exposure to environmental smoke, advertising and promotion. We are thus at the end of our work. I wish everyone a good afternoon and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 18 minutes.]]
