ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members, our agenda includes a fundamental point, which is the thematic debate required by the CFP under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, on the financial system and public control of the bank, following draft law No 183 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — It regulates the access to pregnancy of replacement in cases of absence of the uterus, injury or disease of this organ which impedes pregnancy in an absolute and definitive manner, making the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September (BE), to which no time for discussion is assigned. Let us then begin with the debate required by the CFP. To open the debate, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The national financial system is currently carrying a runway that is the result of decades of credit award policy without guarantees and without risk assessment and more or less lawful practices in the movement of capital, tax evasion and distribution of dividends that should never have been distributed. The way in which the owners of the banks could manage the savings of the Portuguese and the financial resources of the country since the re-rivatisation of the bank placed access to debt at no cost to themselves, but at the expense of the Portuguese. The nationalization of the bank in 1975, contrary to what is said, was an important instrument to guarantee financing to the economy at a time when the great patronage fled the country and abandoned production, but it was also an important moment for the national bank. The BES, for example, more than doubled its balance sheet assets during the period when it was strictly public and at no other time the workers in the sector have seen such significant improvement in their working conditions. The delivery of the bank to the hands of the great shareholders placed a fundamental lever of the economy at the service of the accumulation of profit and of the whims of a ruling class that has only a horizon: to be richer and have even more dominion. Taking as an example again the BES, between 1992 and 2008, the main shareholders withdrew more than EUR 4 billion in dividends and it is not possible to know exactly how many more million would have taken in other more or less legal forms, more or less legal. The result was a bank that left a hole of EUR 4900 million in the Portuguese accounts. That is, the shareholders took what there was and what there was not. The same happened in BANIF and in many decapitalised banks by options of their great shareholders. The nationalized bank has grown and financed the economy, its privatization has begun a cycle of assaults on the banks, assaults perpetrated by the owners of these banks themselves — it is great the contrast! — and all this under the eyes of Banco de Portugal, which did not prevent one of these attacks. The Banco de Portugal is not just doing nothing. He's, after all, a bank advertising agent. It tells us that we can trust our savings in the hands of the bankers, while they use them in financial speculation and in granting credit to their own companies and friends, often without any security of return. at the same time, the Banco de Portugal hides, conceals, silences the problems, legitimizes speculation and, to pretend it does something, writes letters to bankers from time to time with some recommendations. in the end, he passes the bill to the Portuguese, who pay it by choice of governments. [[PCP applause.]] The account is now close to EUR 20 billion, from 2008 to today, excluding public guarantees. All of this would lead to the most basic sense of changing the functioning of the financial system. But what is the solution imposed by single banking supervision and resolution, defended by the European Union, by large economic groups and by the monopoly of the bank? To create even greater banks through a process of concentration and centralisation of the banking, national and European sectors, and the monopolistic domination of the large continental financial groups. It was not necessary to wait long until it became clear that the conflict between the interests of those who rule the European Union and the interests of the Portuguese is loud. The resolution of BANIF and the sale, or delivery, to Santander demonstrates with particular clarity the incompatibility between the view of the European Commission and the view of national interest. While Portugal had less to lose with the public control of BANIF, or even as a transitional bank, the European Commission imposes its surrender on Santander, along with more than EUR 2200 million. It came out to play the economic groups of Madeira, the credits given to friends and shareholders and the performance of a supervisor and a government that helped hide a rotten bank over many years. The CFP has long been warning of the risks and losses resulting from European integration and the progress of the process of disengagement between power and peoples. The way in which the great capital today decides on fundamental aspects of the financial system, on the economy and on the policy of each Member State, through non-elected and non-democratic bodies, makes the European Union a new form of dictatorship at the service of monopolies, an economic and financial dictatorship which translates into a reduction in social, cultural, political and economic rights. The continuation of this policy will lead to the continued growth of decapitalisation of the bank and the need for public intervention, with increasing costs and in ever shorter cycles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u4	to the nearly 20 billion already injected into banks, they will increase so many million, and so on. The clean-up of the bank's toxic assets must be done with the wealth of those who have earned improperly, it must be done with the companies and the properties, with the offshore accounts of those who have enriched because they have hoarded the banks and the savings of the Portuguese. at the same time, the public bank must be robust, away from market practices that mimic and serve the private bank, placing it as a public service subordinate to the national interest of small and medium-sized enterprises, workers, regional development and the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u5	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u6	I will finish, Mr. President. This debate is a contribution which the CFP intends to make to an urgent reflection on the role of the bank, because only the bank in the hands of the people does not steal the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u7	Mr Miguel Tiago, the Bureau records the entry of Mr Fernando Anastácio for clarification. You have the floor, Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u8	Mr President, Mr Miguel Tiago, all or at least most of the Members of this House, we agree perfectly that it was a levanity on the part of the previous Government to say that the resolution of BES and the New Bank would not have any cost to taxpayers. On this point, I think there is no difference and the vast majority of this Parliament has this perfect notion. This should not have been passed on to the Portuguese, because there are indeed costs for taxpayers. Even yesterday, we all had the opportunity in this House to hear Mr. Prime Minister reiterate that all possibilities are considered with a view to a better solution of the State to the taxpayers. Therefore, on this subject, the debate on the question of public bank, private bank and control of the same bank is on the table with all open issues. But it is not enough to say that the public bank is better for taxpayers, it is also important to have answers to some questions, particularly in order to assess the capacity of the State, in this particular case, to have two public banks — and I am referring specifically to the General Deposit Box and the possibility of the New Bank to remain in the public sphere. It is important to assess the advantages of these banks being public, if the State will have the advantage of having another public bank, already having the Box, since there are capitalisation needs both in the Box and possibly in this new public bank. It is also important to know whether, in the current economic situation of public finances and financial conditions, the State will be in a position to be a good shareholder for these two public banks. It is essential that we have the answers. Reitera : no way should be closed. All solutions must be open, all of them must be evaluated, assuming the public interest, but an option for any way requires an answer to these questions and that is the answer I would ask for here, as a contribution, to Mr Miguel Tiago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u9	To reply, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u10	Mr President, Mr Fernando Anastácio, I am grateful for the questions you put to the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party. The CFP, as you know, unlike other parliamentary groups, has never embarked, for even one second, on the PSD and CDS thesis, which consisted of throwing sand into the eyes of Portuguese, making a resolution of BES and saying that there were no costs for taxpayers. In fact, the CFP has announced since the first hour that the Resolution Fund is no more than a public entity, which is tax-driven and, as such, makes the management of public resources. More serious than that: the Resolution Fund did not even have a hard time dealing with the resolution of BES and had to be borrowed by the State budget. The CFP has, since the first hour, denounced this ambush, which came from the former government, which, while stealing from the Portuguese, gave money to the banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u12	On the option of BES resolution, today it is easier to understand the costs it has represented for the Portuguese, but the CFP does not limit itself to accepting it. It was not possible or entirely possible to reverse this process and at the time proposed that the properties of the Espírito Santo Group and its main shareholders should have served to meet the commitments that that that Bank could not fulfil, i.e. instead of using public resources, we would seek their companies and the wealth hidden in offshore to pay the debts that they had contracted and did not pay — finally, this was not the option — the CFP does not now limit itself to carpir or cry the resolution of BES. on the contrary, the CFP proposes that the New Bank, as a result of this resolution, remain in the public sphere, not as part of the General Deposit Box but as a new public bank. Moreover, during the period when the bank was public in Portugal there were several nationalised banks that competed with each other, who disputed the market in terms of competition, but from a perspective of granting credit to the economy, which, as I said before, not only increased the balance sheet of banks and the granting of credit to the economy as it made them more robust, to then be given to the financial groups which, unfortunately, have destroyed or are destroying them today. Therefore, the New Bank in the public sphere is what ensures that the effort that the Portuguese have already made so far can in some ways be minimized. We have already paid more than the value of the New Bank and therefore we must keep the New Bank in the public sphere. It is true that the bank is not enough to be public, but it is no less true that only the public bank can guarantee or create conditions for the steps taken to solve the problems. It is also true, Mr President, that the merits of the public bank must be proved. But let me tell you, it is almost impossible to prove the merits of the private bank and no one is able to show today the great advantages that it is for our country to have the bank in the hands of the large financial groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u13	Mr Manuel Rodrigues of the PSD Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: in the last four years, the financial sector has been stabilized through its capitalisation and consolidation of the balance sheet... [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]] ... with the rebalancing between loans and deposits.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u15	He's kidding people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u16	If, in 2011, for each euro of deposits in banking institutions 1, 5 € of loans today, the relationship between loans and deposits is balanced. The financial system was recapitalized with the increase in equity ratio by more than 4 percentage points,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u17	At our expense!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u18	... which means a capitalisation of 40 %. The stabilization of the financial sector has allowed for the recovery of financing to the economy in an appropriate volume and at a lower cost. In 2016, in contrast to 2011, when our country was on the brink of financial rupture, Portugal has no financing problem. Portuguese banks are liquidity surpluses. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u19	Which one? A BANIF?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u20	The financing of the economy and, in particular, of the marketable sectors has increased in volume and the cost of financing has consistently decreased since 2013. The situation in Portugal today has no parallel with what had been going on for five years. Five years ago we had only EUR 12 billion for the capitalisation of the financial system and Portugal faced a serious liquidity problem. If there is no longer a financing problem today, the shareholders of credit institutions still have a cost-effectiveness problem. This is a challenge of the financial system of nine more Member States of the European Union, which together with Portugal have a level of non-productive assets greater than 10 % of the balance sheet. Despite the existence of a large number of non-productive assets in the financial system penalising equity profitability, these assets have not been a barrier to financing the economy. Any solution to be developed in the area of non-productive assets should safeguard taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u22	The current model of the financial system in a market economy is consensual not only by the majority of Members of this House but also internationally. Developed and healthy economies bet on a model in which the capital of banks is held by private shareholders, accompanied by robust and effective supervision. The nationalization of financial institutions, calling the taxpayers to assume high charges, has always been presented as a bad practice and is a model exceeded by the European rules which were strengthened in 2016. Mrs. Members, the public control of the bank is synonymous with calling taxpayers to take charge of the financial system. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP laughter.]] This is precisely the model that Portugal does not need and I give two examples: the Irish case, the charges of a bank rescue cost taxpayers EUR 63 billion, charges that caused the public deficit to be fired; in Spain a bank rescue in 2012 amounted to EUR 100 billion, and only one of the nationalised banks resulted in around EUR 20 billion charges for the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u24	In Portugal, the alienation of non-financial assets held by the State, according to the Stability Programme submitted by the Government, will reduce public debt by 2 9 percentage points. In addition, the national financial system, which has benefited from contingent capital, has already returned more than 70 % of the capital and paid interest over this period more than EUR 1100 million. Mrs. Members, the public control of the financial system is an obstacle to a market economy and represents everything our country does not need. It is financial supervision, rather than the shareholder, which represents the guarantor of transparency, stability and efficiency of the financial system, protects depositors and represents the safeguard of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u25	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u26	For the benefit of Portuguese, financial supervision has been strengthened and it is expected that it will continue to be deepened. It is in this model that the General Deposit Box plays a central role as a reference bank that ensures the strengthening of confidence and stability which, in the 140 years of history, has made an important contribution to the national economy. The financial system has a nuclear role in the financing of productive activity. The strength of the financial system reflects the state of the economy. The quality of the balance sheet credit of financial institutions depends directly on the recovery of business fabric and public finances. With high exposure of the banking system to public debt, solid public finances are the main guarantee of stability. Finally, we see with great concern that the implementation of the third pillar of banking union is delayed. The implementation of a single system to guarantee deposits will ensure common protection for all deposits of the banking union and is absolutely central and necessary. The full implementation of the banking union is essential in order to reduce the differential in the financing cost that still exists between national companies and their European counterparts. Finally, over the past five years the financial system has been stabilized, funding has been recovered, confidence has been restored, it is now up to the government to preserve the confidence gained. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u27	Mr. Manuel Rodrigues, you have two requests for clarification, Mr. Carlos Pereira and Mr. Miguel Tiago. Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u28	Mr President, Member of the Democratic Social Party, in fact, we have just seen something incomprehensible, and it was incomprehensible in your first sentence, when you said that the Portuguese financial system is stable!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u29	It can only be a joke of bad taste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u30	The question you have to ask is, where does the honourable Member come from? Where did Mr. Deputy come from? Where has Mr. Deputy been in the last four years? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that in the last four years we have done in this House several committees of inquiry on the question of the financial system and the problems of the financial system. And there are still committees of inquiry, as you know, going through the Banif Commission of Inquiry on the financial system, and the honourable Member goes up to the rostrum to say this fantastic thing, that the Portuguese financial system is stable. On the other hand, there was something else that surprised us, surprised us but pleased us, and this is the first question I would like to ask. The honourable Member said that the General Deposit Box was a central bank of the Portuguese financial system and that somehow it did not say so well, it should be careful. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, welcome to this solution that the Socialist Party has been defending for a long time and that you have just said here, in this House, of course, contrary to the entire speech of your Government over the past four years, and also to the President of your party. Mr President, we must remember what was the last four years. We must remember what the failures of the past four years have been in the framework of your work, with responsibilities and consequences in the financial system. And we can start with what has already been said today, the expectations that you have created around the BES resolution, that it would be a resolution without any costs, but we still have a problem behind us and that is not solved. You announced that it would be solved in 2014 and failed that solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But that's not all. You also made a recapitalisation of BANIF, saying at the time, several members of your party, that this was an important, interesting and good solution, because it would even profit the state! We don't forget this! You said you were going to make a profit to the State on Banif. Now, today, we have an absolutely complex situation in BANIF and your responsibility; they pushed with the belly and did not do what they had to do at the right time, which ended up having a huge cost for taxpayers, and it was the Socialist Party that later had to solve your problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And finally, not satisfied with this, you still made five capital increases to an Efisa Bank of the BPN Group ; you put EUR 90 million there. You can say it's little, right? Oh, my God! [[PSD Members' laughs.]] You are laughing, it may be said that it is little, but it was EUR 90 million! And then they wanted to sell this to Mr Miguel Relvas for EUR 38 million and EUR 52 million for clarification. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, honourable Member, explain to this House where is your view of the stability of the financial system and the contribution the PSD has made in this House, in this country, to solve and guarantee that same stability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u31	Mr Rodrigues informed the Bureau that he is replying together, so you have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u32	Mr President, Mr Rodrigues, it is an intervention of great irresponsibility, or of trying to get rid of the responsibilities you may have, and absolutely unacceptable to come here to say that the previous Government, over the past four years, has ensured the stability of the financial system, as if it had only resulted in a great benefit for the Portuguese. The honourable Member has also forgotten that they have left BANIF in the situation in which, despite the capital being largely public, they have resigned from controlling that Bank, leaving it in the hands of private shareholders, that they have broken public resources and that they have led BANIF — indeed, with the support of its government — to the situation in which we had to put more than EUR 3300 million there. Mr Member, when it was the former government that solved the BES and committed EUR 4900 million of the Portuguese in that resolution... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u33	...and that, in total, has put almost EUR 20 billion of Portuguese in the bank, come here to say that the public bank represents a taxpayer's expense? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u34	Honestly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u35	Mr. Deputies, then the 20 billion you put in there were from whom? Were they not taxpayers, sir? Oh, my God! Mr President, on financial supervision is the guarantor, as you say, if it is safeguarding the interest of taxpayers, then you are right to the need of the public bank. This is because if banking supervision is the safeguard of our interests and if banking supervision has shown itself to be the most ineffective of the mechanisms, then it is time to end this illusion and call for public control what cannot be played with, which is the savings of the Portuguese. Mr. Manuel Rodrigues, there are many differences, but there is a big difference between the views of the PSD and that of the PCP on the financial system: Mr. Deputies wants the bankers to trust the country and the PCP think that the country cannot trust the bankers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u36	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u37	History has given us reason and the Portuguese people too. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u38	To reply, Mr. Manuel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u39	Mr. President, Mr. Members recently questioned the stabilization of the financial sector. I would like to remember 2011, that Mr. Members know well: it was the Socialist Party that was in the government, it was the Socialist Party that asked for the financial ransom and it was the Socialist Party that led the country to bankruptcy! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u40	It was the banks!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u41	In 2011 it was not only the financial system that was in financial breach.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u42	It was the banks! It was the banks that took the country to bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u43	Mr President, I ask you to listen to me with the same attention I have heard from your colleagues. Mr. Deputie, I remember that in 2011 the country was in financial breach, there was no financing, neither for families nor businesses, and the payment of wages was at risk. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have been discussing the restructuring of public debt. I hope you are. Members recall that when we talk about restructuring public debt, the strategic reserve of our pensioners in the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security is practically all invested in public debt. It is more than EUR 12 billion of the pensioners invested in public debt that you intend to restructure. But it's not just the pensioners! Saving certificates, with Portuguese savings, are also, they are also public debt. So when we talk about restructuring public debt, we are talking about risking the savings of our pensioners and Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[Now, we want to see your responsibility for this!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u45	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese financial system and the Portuguese banking system today are confused. All credit in Portugal, the vast majority, is intermediated by the banking system, so the banking system plays a fundamental role in the Portuguese economy. The banking system today has a very significant set of challenges, which it faces. It has the challenge of restoring profitability in a context of extremely low interest rates. It has the challenge of reducing the unproductive assets that remain on its balance sheet and which obviously cause a brake on this profitability. And it has the challenge to restore and maintain adequate levels of capitalisation and which, within the European framework, have increasingly high requirements. The recent case of the Panama Papers, but not only this case, also requires a new degree of transparency in the financial system. It requires greater transparency, better internal control policies and requires more auditability than the bank accounts. The Portuguese financial system is also today a reflection of the over-independence of a set of non-financial enterprises. These non-financial companies, which have resorted to credit for years following the credit without often having had an adequate risk assessment, have determined that the capitalisation of a large set of companies is needed today. We must have the notion that the high indebtedness of Portuguese companies is not solved by bank credit, it is resolved by capital, and the great challenge facing the Portuguese economy today is precisely to bring capital to non-financial companies that allow them to invest, grow, create jobs and promote the well-being of Portuguese people. The issue of new capital instruments, as well as the promotion of agile mechanisms of the process of revitalization and restructuring of viable companies, is crucial. Therefore, the Government has appointed the Enterprise Capitalisation Mission Unit which is working on a set of measures to resolve the issue of over-indebtedness and to create capitalisation mechanisms which are able, on the one hand, to generate investment and economic growth and, on the other hand, to alleviate the burden of banking debt in Portuguese companies. With regard to the public control of the bank, the position of the government is quite clear. The public bank, represented by the General Deposit Box, is a benchmark of stability. The General Deposit Box really deserves a very important word in this debate. During a prolonged period of crisis, the General Deposit Box was the refuge bank of many Portuguese savings. As much as criticism has been given of the losses of the Box and its role, the Box has ensured that in Portugal there was no leakage of deposits similar to that which occurred in other countries in crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This speaks well of the credibility that the General Deposit Box has in Portugal and the role it plays. The General Deposit Box was, however, a bank punished by this crisis. He was the victim of a very low interest rate scheme and a high exposure to mortgage credit, because the Box was the funder of many housing in many Portuguese people who today have their own home. The government's policy is very clear. The General Deposit Box, with the current Government, will maintain public control over all, i.e. maintain 100 % of public capital. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will remain as a reference in the financing of the Portuguese economy and the government's policy is to give the Caixa the task of directing itself to small and medium-sized enterprises, to companies of marketable goods, which sell their goods in Portugal and which do well here but also sell there, which create jobs and have greater potential for creating value added to Portugal and for well-being for Portuguese. Maintaining credibility with Portuguese savers is an inalienable asset of the General Deposit Box that must be maintained. But the Box must also be able to return to a business profile that can generate organic profits that allow it to capitalise on itself without, of course, questioning the need for the shareholder to capitalize on the Box, without any prejudice and in terms that are compatible with European rules. Finally, the monitoring of the management of the Box and its mission is a role of the shareholder and of that role the shareholder can never resign, either in the Box or in any bank whose capitals are mostly public. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The public control of the bank, yes, also goes through the architecture of supervision of the financial system. Adequate coordination is required between the various financial supervisors and, in particular, that the National Financial Supervisory Board has an active and relevant role in the context of supervision. We need to discuss, today we need to be open to discussion - the relationship between banking supervision and banking resolution mechanisms, and also - this is in the Government programme and the process has already begun - we need to reflect on the architecture of the financial system. We invited a set of personalities, representing various and various sectors of society, to make contributions to the discussion of a model of architecture of the financial system that is able to deal with the failures recorded in the past. in the supervision of the banking sector we have to learn from the past. We need to learn from BPN, BES, BANIF, and also from what happened in BPP. The supervision of the banking sector must, in fact, become intrusive. Intrusive supervision cannot only be a mere slogan or a buzzword, it has to be something that actually happens and allows itself to identify and act before situations become irreversible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Banking supervision must become prospective and must become proactive in preventing financial system problems. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that the financial sector faces challenges but, with the institutional framework, it plays a key role in the confidence of the banking sector. The link between supervisors, the government and banks is fundamental to the financing of the economy and the General Deposit Board will continue to be a bulwark for the stability of the financial system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u47	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau records nine entries of Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u48	Mr President, I will respond in groups of three.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u49	Mr João Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a question that has to do with something that has rarely been addressed about the implications for the financial system, the functioning of offshores, of the so-called 'tax havens'. In fact, this has often been dealt with only by combating fraud and tax evasion, combating money laundering and terrorism. There have often been some political coverage to the idea that the transfer of capital to tax havens, when it is intended only to reduce the tax burden on these capitals, would have nothing wrong, as if it were indifferent to the country's loss of tax revenue, even if that transfer of capital was made to the cover of laws, which are unfair and harmful to the national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u52	But, unfortunately, these have been only the two dimensions in which offshore issues are dealt with. Today I would like to raise another problem in this debate which is directly related to the financial system and the use of offshores. This problem relates to the fact that they are used for the circulation and concealment of capital, for the concealment of credit granted by financial institutions to bankers and shareholders themselves without any criteria or conditions, which has in many circumstances contributed to the decapitalisation of particularly weaker financial institutions in countries where the size of these institutions poses aggravated problems, such as Portugal. This is a dimension of the problem that is directly related to the functioning of the financial system, with the purposes for which financial institutions are used, with the way they are managed and with the ability, or not, to control, monitor and impose rules on the use of the credit as a public good to be considered. This matter of the use of offshores for these objectives is a decisive aspect that we have to face with the prospect of terms, indeed, a financial system for the people, for the service of the country, for the service of the national economy, and not for the service of the particular and individual interests of bankers and shareholders of the financial institutions. He therefore asked the Secretary of State to give us the view that the Government has in relation to the fight against offshores and their use for these purposes, considering the damage they have caused to national financial institutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u53	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, my first word is to greet you because it has shown good sense. Mr. Secretary of State, who has publicly corrected Mr. Prime Minister by stating that the State should not interfere in negotiations between private shareholders of a bank, deserves our public recognition. He did well and that has to be welcomed. [[PSD applause.]] The second note I want to make is that we understand that those who have North Korea as a model of society understand that the whole financial system should be public.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u55	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u56	All right. But those who have as a model societies and developed economies do not have that assumption in their view of society. However, we know that there are those in the Socialist Party who have it. Mr. João Galamba has also recently said that, in theory, the financial sector should be all public.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u57	You wanted to privatize the public!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u58	So I ask you: is your opinion, Mr Secretary of State, and that of the Government of Portugal that the financial sector should be all public or, on the contrary, there should be both private and public sectors competing with each other? The government has made reference to a possible bad bank for toxic assets from all banks, across the financial sector. Here I have to ask you: what is the model? Can you ensure that there will be no taxpayers' money to fund this solution? Is there urgency in this solution, Mr Secretary of State, when today we do not have a problem of financing the economy as the one who lived in 2011? I remember that in 2011 the credit ratio / deposits was 160. Today is at level 100. There was a significant improvement in the consolidation of the financial sector and its stability. This problem of financing the economy today does not exist and therefore that is not the reason. So what can motivate the government to want to move forward with that solution? Finally, the independence of Banco de Portugal is fundamental and the strengthening of supervisory mechanisms is essential. Together, following various committees of inquiry on the financial sector, with widely agreed reports in the Chamber, we have identified improvements to be introduced and, of course, we are available to do so. But, Secretary of State, this is not a matter for « franco-attractors» or voluntary acts. We hope that common sense and consensus will prevail so that there can be stability in the financial sector, in the economy and in the country. If so, you can count on us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u59	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, the fight against fraud and tax evasion are in fact on the agenda. To be aware of the size of this problem, it is sufficient to mention that, by the beginning of this year, of the approximately 11 000 tax information exchange agreements provided for by the G20 tax have broken down as necessary to achieve the effect of a global network to combat tax evasion and tax fraud only 590 agreements have been signed. Much still remains to be done and it is the responsibility of all and of each of the countries to move forward with concrete measures in the sense of greater transparency, justice and responsibility in this area. in this regard, yesterday, the Council of Ministers presented a set of eight measures aimed at strengthening the fight against tax fraud and avoidance and promoting international cooperation in tax matters, including measures that detect and penalise the undue movement of capital for tax evasion. It is indeed necessary to combat the opacity of the international financial system, particularly offshore ones, and it is our duty to ensure that tax on any income obtained in national territory is effectively settled in national territory, thus ensuring greater equity in the distribution of tax effort. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that this effort to combat tax fraud and avoidance is not limited or resolved only by measures implemented by Portugal. The European Union itself has increasingly tightened the rules of fiscal and financial scrutiny, also pressing offshore or bank-based jurisdictions to cooperate and exchange information with Community and national bodies. In fact, with more than 80 tax havens serving more than 60 million people and circulating between 21 and 32 billion dollars, no country can in itself aspire to end this problem. Only an effort for international cooperation can bring solutions and the only promising way in this area has been the imposition of common rules for transparency and international exchange of information. It is therefore essential to strengthen a European and national struggle in a collaborative process that necessarily results from our integration into the European area and the global economy. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance two questions. Is the first to what extent the decisions announced and adopted yesterday at the Council of Ministers effectively ensure a strengthening of the fight against tax evasion and on a global scale? The second question is whether we can provide additional information on the measures being taken at European level that could contribute to even greater strengthening in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u61	In response to these three requests for clarification, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix, has the floor. I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, avoid the enormous noise in this Chamber. Thank you very much. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the issues raised by Mr João Oliveira and on the issue of offshores, the flight of offshore capital and the loss we have of tax revenue, what I can tell you is that I agree with. Every euro from Portugal that goes to an offshore is less a euro that pays taxes and these taxes subtract what are the revenues that the State has for combating inequality, for combating poverty, for financing education, justice and what the functions of the State are. Therefore, the fight against the flight of offshore capital is a priority of this government and this has resulted in the adoption of measures, already at the beginning of this mandate, but also in a rather broad package of measures which was approved yesterday, the sharing of information, on the one hand, and the adoption of a set of multilateral mechanisms within the framework of the OECD, which are intended precisely to avoid and combat aggressive policies for the relocation of multinational headquarters as a means of obtaining undue tax earnings. With regard to these measures, some have obviously been depoliticized and, more recently, advanced by the question of Panama Papers, but for some time now that, at European level, and also now responding to Mrs Lara Martinho, there is a set of measures that have begun to be prepared, related to the issue of combating terrorism. Combating terrorism, transferring to offshore and tax evasion are issues that cannot be disconnected from each other. It is in this context that in the last Eurogroup where I was present in Amsterdam there was indeed a very widespread consensus between the countries that are both members of the Eurogroup and the Ecofin, in order to strengthen cooperation and the existence of a common position, which is fundamental when it comes to offshore issues, and which obviously has to do with fiscal competitiveness. We believe that we can solve this issue in a purely national perspective is something that is not particularly useful. Therefore, it is in this sense that the government will move forward. On the issues raised by Mr Duarte Pacheco, on which I stand, well, I think that my position here is relatively uninteresting. The position of the Government is that which I have conveyed: the public bank, the General Deposit Box, is a bulwark of what is confidence in the Portuguese financial system, but it is a bank which, in the opinion of the Government — and that is our policy — will be 100 % public. Therefore, we are not available for capital openings and to think about privatization of the General Deposit Box as mentioned in the past. With regard to the bad bank for toxic assets, there is a set of measures to be discussed within the Enterprise Capitalisation Mission Unit and this is one of them — not the bad bank, but measures that allow banks to facilitate the flow, if I may say so, of depreciated assets. But this is not the main measure and there are several models under consideration. The main measure that enables banks to have a reduction in their depreciated assets is a thorough analysis of the measures allowing the liquidation and recovery of companies. And it is because of these measures of winding up or recovery of companies and the early identification of the situations of companies in difficulty that we must pursue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u63	We are now going to a second series of questions addressed to Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance. First of all, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State and ask you a few questions. Mr. Secretary of State, we know that the bank is a condition of national sovereignty and development and the public bank is today the only condition for having a national bank that is a condition of sovereignty and development. The General Deposit Box, as has already been said, is central to the financial stability of the whole system and for the development of the country and therefore we note the intention to maintain in the public sphere, recapitalized, with conditions to exercise its functions, not mingling the private bank but, yes, with principles of public service. This also leads us to reflect whether it is more useful for the country to have the New Bank in the hands of any Santander or whether it is more useful that the New Bank also fulfils a principle of stability and public service. But there is a second issue that I would like to talk about and which I would like to have some sort of guarantee. The bank does not exist without its workers, who have been the main and most direct victims of bankruptcy by a management of which they have neither responsibility nor guilt. What happened to the workers of the old BPN in Parvalorem was regrettable. The former government has acted like the most cruel of the bosses and we cannot allow what happened in Parvaloren to happen in the New Bank. In institutions of the public sphere, pressure, blackmail, arbitrariness in the processes of dismissal, overstepping or encroachment of workers' rights are not admissible. We therefore want a guarantee here that the government is at least supervising these processes and that in the New Bank we will see the rights of all the workers currently on the verge of dismissal and hostages from management who are not respecting their rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u65	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, listening carefully to the intervention of Mr Exa, there are two questions that we have been asked about, but I would take advantage of this question about the workers, which I thought was to the end and which was to the extent to which the Government has more responsibility, which is to the workers of the Eighth. These workers are currently under the height of the state, the result of a voluntary delivery from the State of Banif to Santander, having remained the responsibility of the workers. There is no one else who can have the responsibility other than the Ministry of Finance. The Minister of Finance has only told us today that he was concerned about the situation. That concern is not enough. What we need to have on the part of the Government is the guarantee that the State is a good person and will respect all the commitments that the workers of the Oitante have, in particular those that resulted from their working relations with BANIF, which was their employer until the State hand over that Bank to Santander.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u67	What about Parvalorem?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u68	As for the two questions that I have to ask you and which stem from your intervention, the first one has to do with the guidance on the General Deposit Box. It is interesting that a Government of the Socialist Party would tell us that the orientation that will be given to the General Deposit Box is to provide credit to SMEs, because the General Deposit Box could not play that role during a significant period of the crisis that we went through because it had previously been committed to its ability to provide credit to SMEs with loans given to friends to play in the private bank. What happened to the General Deposit Box during socialist governments was a completely arbitrary and discretionary credit policy, which gave money to private parties to engage in shareholder operations in private banks. The General Deposit Box came even, during socialist governance, to pass an administration of the General Deposit Box to a private bank. It was at this point the interference of the General Deposit Box in the private system, with high damage to the Portuguese business fabric. If this is a political change, we welcome it, but we cannot fail to note that it was during the governments of the Socialist Party that the opposite policy was applied. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u69	What about the Efisa? Is that Miguel Relvas?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u70	The second clarification we want is also very clear, Mr Secretary of State. The debate here today is a debate on the CFP initiative on bank nationalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u71	It's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u72	You are only Secretary of State because you have the support of three parties who, in the election campaign, told the Portuguese that they wanted to nationalize the bank. Therefore, the majority's electoral commitment that allows Mr. Secretary of State to perform these functions includes nationalizing the bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u73	Before I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u74	We are suspicious of agreeing with this, but we cannot ignore the electoral commitments of those who then use a majority to support a government. So what I ask you is whether you and the government will fulfill the electoral commitment of the Left Block and the PCP and will nationalize the entire bank, because the bankers are not serious enough to manage their banks, as the extreme-left, or the extreme-left lie in the elections and will not comply with what you have committed and therefore support a government not to fulfil its electoral programme but for mere personal and party interest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u75	But is it the taxpayers' or bankers' party? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u76	For a request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the CDS can speak well of electoral commitments and then of what it has done forward with the government. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mr. Secretary of State, we do not only live in difficult times, we also live in strange times. Foreign times to morals, foreign times to justice and foreign times to the very principles of the democratic rule of law. We live at a time when we accept, almost by resignation, as if it were natural, this sad scenario: while banks profit, shareholders quietly divide their dividends. Without anyone hearing them, they distribute the profit cake, but when the thing goes wrong, when the banks damage, the state forces the taxpayers to cover up the holes created by the bankers. Now this is absolutely unacceptable. We well know that the major problems of the New Bank are the result of the resolution that was badly done by the previous government—only in the New Bank and only directly we have cashed in EUR 3900 million—and we well know that if the PSD and CDS government had not delayed and pushed the Banif problem into the future it would certainly not have the size it has and would not cost the taxpayers what it is cost. But the truth is this: first it was BPN, then it was BES and then it was BANIF. And the question is not what the next one is going to be, the question is how many more cases are needed, how many more million euros will have the Portuguese State to inject and how many more million euros will be required to require taxpayers to take effective measures to prevent disasters of this size and nature. What more will need to happen to realize that it is even an imperative to curb this injustice and definitely place this important development factor of the country at the service of the public interest, at the service of our economy and at the service of families? What else will have to happen in order to reverse the way you look at the bank? Mr Secretary of State, in our view, the sale of the New Bank, if it happens again, will mean a new BANIF or a new BPN, because selling will always have serious damage to taxpayers. The best solution, therefore, in our view, would be for the State to hold public control of the New Bank. Moreover, the sale will not solve the problem, the sale will only delay and will certainly aggravate the problem. It would be another push towards banking concentration in the hands of foreign groups and would not even solve the issue of redundancies, already announced by the current administration, and with their loss of jobs. In addition, it will further remove any possibility of this Bank being able to make a contribution to the economic development of the country and remain under the public control of the Portuguese State. We know that the Government maintains an open attitude towards all the solutions that exist and the decision will have, as a fundamental criterion, better protection for taxpayers. These were the words used by the Prime Minister in the 15-year debate on 30 March and, in a way, yesterday confirmed, and I wanted Mr. Secretary of State to confirm this presumption to us: do these words mean that the Government does not exclude the possibility of the New Bank from being in the hands of the State? I would like to know whether Mr. Secretary of State can confirm this presumption. As for the General Deposit Box, we learned that the Government is determined to channel efforts to make the General Deposit Box 100 % public, but I have a question about offshore to put to it, which has already been put here, but in another perspective. Mr. Secretary of State, I would like you to tell us if the government is aware of any applications from public institutions in offshore. And if you know what we're talking about? If you do not, it would also be important to know what concerns are that the government has already promoted or intends to promote, in order to obtain that information, that is, whether there are indeed applications from public institutions in offshore. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u78	To reply to the honourable Members. Members Mariana Mortágua, João Pinho de Almeida and José Luís Ferreira, have the floor Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the issue raised by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, as in the Eighth, raised by Mr João Pinho de Almeida, in the New Bank, I must say that the New Bank and the Eighth are currently under the aegis of the Resolution Fund, which means that they have an administration, which is accompanied by the Resolution Fund and with which the Government, through the Ministry of Finance, has maintained very close contact. And it has kept very close contact in order to assess several issues, particularly how management is being done and whether the aim of these institutions is being pursued, and also to assess which solutions are being found for workers. And the indication we have so far is that a set of policies is being followed that aims to transfer some workers, who have already been to Banco Santander in the case of the Oitante. in the case of the New Bank, there is now an ongoing termination process. in the case referred to by Parvalorem, which is under the direct reach of the Ministry of Finance, we have had contacts with Parvalorem, in order to provide us with a set of information concerning workers who still persist and are in Parvalorem, in order to be able to use this list to respond to the human resources needs of institutions that are either in the sphere of the state or in other public entities. Obviously, what the Ministry of Finance is doing here is just sharing information and not giving directions for someone to be hired directly from this list, because processes are open and competitive processes. Regarding the issue of CGD and guidance to CGD and what has been said about the past of CGD, I believe that the past of CGD, like that of any company, reflects decisions of all governments since there is CGD and CGD administrations. Therefore, making charges of responsibility to this or that government or this or that administration seems to me to be relatively little useful at the moment. What is useful, in my view, is to give the guarantee, which I have already given here, that the CGD will remain 100% public. On the question of whether or not we are going to nationalize the bank in the Government Programme, which is what the government is going to do, I think on any page it is said that the government will nationalize the bank. I therefore hope that it will be very clear what is the Government's programme, which will be fulfilled. This, in the same way that in the previous Government's programme it did not appear on any page that the CGD was going to be privatized, but the Prime Minister then had that opinion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's right. So we have to be clear. With regard to the questions put by Mr. José Luís Ferreira, concerning the sale of the New Bank, what I am doing here is to reiterate the words of Mr. Prime Minister, in the sense that all the options are open. But when we evaluate all the options, we must realize that privatization or sale of the New Bank may have costs, but maintenance in the public sphere may also have costs. And what we have to do is compare these two situations and realize what is, of both situations, that minimizes costs for the taxpayer, in a non-immediate but medium and long-term perspective. That is how economic decisions are made, in the medium and long-term perspective. On the issue of offshores, since I was aware of this issue, we have been in contact with all public entities that may have information on possible applications in tax havens. So far— and we have already contacted entities under which nearly a hundred public companies are located, because all institutions that are not public companies are subject to the State Treasury Unit and therefore have their applications in the IGCP — we have no information that there is no application in countries that are on the list of tax havens. What are we doing here? We are making the opposite sense, that is, we are contacting the IMF, asking the IMF where you received that information to realize what information is that that can indicate that there are public entities with applications in tax havens and whether there are any sort of classification errors that can generate this, because we admit it might be something like that, or, then, identifying someone who is hiding information, which would be extremely serious. I can tell you that, having identified the situation, we will try to understand why, if there is this application, which I find difficult to justify, and then also why that application is hidden and has not been identified. This is the way that is being followed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u80	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to congratulate you and inform you that you are registered, to request clarification, Mr. Deputies Bruno Dias, Cristóvão Crespo, Paulino Ascenção and Miguel Tiago. However, Mr. Secretary of State no longer has time to answer, I do not know if any banks are available to give time to the government. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has been informed that the PS is giving time to respond. So Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u81	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance, we have already had here the reaffirmation by the CFP of the undeniable evidence that only the bank in the hands of the people does not steal the country. But let's do it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of the bank must be something more than simply not steal or squander the resources of a country. in his speech, Mr Secretary of State, we noted the emphasis he has given to the General Deposit Box. And the central issue is that the public bank must assume and fulfil, with particular responsibility and requirement, a mission to support the financing of productive activity, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to the cooperative and social sector. It is that this real economy, which for years has been suffocated by the strangulation of the internal market, by the high prices of production factors, needs a public bank that supports a public and private investment policy, productive and job-creating, which is indeed present not only in support of export and internationalisation but, of course, in proximity, in the field, with populations and small businesses. in this sense, we have the struggle of populations and micro and small entrepreneurs against the closure of counters, services and even terminals of the General Deposit Box. See the case in our district of Verderena, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, where users directed a protest against the closure of that service to this House. The Government may and should have an answer to this problem. It is that, in recent years, the service to populations and businesses has suffered a genuine race: between 2010 and 2015, the Caixa was with less than 105 agencies and less than 2375 jobs—that is the result of previous governance! In fact, such dismisses in the management of the Box, already referred to here by the CDS, were more than many and go back to various governments and various ministers of the PSD and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u82	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u83	The country needs a public bank that can and will make a difference and counter the predatory practices and the real gulf we are witnessing, with the millions and millions squeezed from the depositors by the banks in commissions, fees, expenses of all order, in which most people who have less pay. So, Mr Secretary of State, the question we put to you is very specific: besides other measures that will be necessary, what measures does the Government have in mind to ensure that, when capital needs are placed in the Box, the public bank can be capitalized with public resources and without prejudice to its activity? We cannot come to the ridicule of being forced to capitalize on all private banks with public resources and, at the same time, we are forbidden to capitalise on the public bank. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u84	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, despite the serious situation we are experiencing, the current majority, socialist, blogger and communist, infantilize the situation: each « throw the stone and hide the hand». But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, reality isn't for jokes. Governance in instability, incoherent and unrealistic practice can once again make the country inviable, as in the past did all socialist governments. The Prime Minister yesterday tried to worry us, and he managed, when he said that the 'thing' works, which does not give us guarantees. The 'thing' works is that it is worrying, because, if it didn't work, there was no problem. in the past, because the governance of the Socialist Party has worked is that it has always failed to break down. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for the PCP and BE, we already know what you think. But for the Government of the Socialist Party, ownership is of little relevance, because, regardless of that title, it does not prevent itself from becoming involved in the functioning of the financial system. In fact, we had obvious bad examples in previous socialist governance. a sitting, they interfered in the General Deposit Box and the BCP, with the results we all know, and the Portuguese suffered with it. The current government seems to go along the same path: to interfere in defining the composition of the social capital of the institutions; to legislate as foreign institutions; to interfere unduly and arbitrarily in private business, questioning the confidence of national institutions, questioning the functioning of the economy and the conditions of its investment. Mr. Secretary of State, what is the position of the Government? The Prime Minister's intervention or the prudent and responsible Secretary of State? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u86	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u87	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, negative interest is an undeniable reality of exceptional character and a relevant conditioner of banking activity. And this reality, paradoxically, gives rise to the incoherence of the right, the market evangelists who are now defending a brake at the fall of interest. When interest rises and profits to bankers, markets are sacred and do not move; when interest goes down and favors customers—ay, ay, ay! -, you need to put a brake on. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u88	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u89	Mr. Secretary of State, two bills are pending in this House that aim precisely to prevent the bank, with its enormous negotiating power, from changing the rules in the middle of the game. The Bank of Portugal took an exercise at the cost, taking into account the financial margin of the banks, the entry into force of these diplomas and estimated them at EUR 700 million. It's a scary number. And the right has come to hold a « party» : ai, ai, ai, again, 700 million euros, will dig another hole in the bank balance sheet! But it is not EUR 700 million that are concerned, it is EUR 200 million because there is a difference between the scenario that arises from the entry into force of these bills and the scenario that is now defended by the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, in which the brake is placed in 0 %. Therefore, it is EUR 200 million that are at stake. And very particular conditions are concerned, as interest rates reach a negative 1 % over a year. So, I ask: is this scenario plausible, of systematically having negative interest rates of 1 %? Well, Einstein's genius has already warned us that human stupidity has no limits. And we have seen the stupidity that has been driving Europe for some years with this ideological obsession for recessive policies that add crisis to the crisis, exacerbate problems and do not solve them. The solution to this problem of interest goes through growth policies, which give return to debtors so that they can meet their commitments, which, in this way, banks can clear their balances, and which allow confidence to be restored to markets and which interest can go up to positive ground. The Banco de Portugal also suggested a new reference for credit contracts. But who makes banks insist on variable rates, insist on Euribor? Who prevents the Governor of Banco de Portugal from publishing this indicator with the average interest in deposits? No one's stopping it. It should have done so already, and banks can very well adopt this indicator. No one also prevents banks from renegotiating claims with customers, replacing the reference. But I say negotiate, and not impose unilaterally. Finally, by appealing here to the Government and the Socialist Party not to be complicit in this fraud, which is to change the rules of the game when appropriate, and to change them always in favour of the strongest link, which are the banks, and to the detriment of them always, the Portuguese, the customers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u90	Finally, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u91	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance, I begin by making a comment: the PSD has not yet realized that what led the country to the so-called bankruptcy situation was not the public investment, it was precisely the financial sector and its destabilization caused by the theft caused by its own shareholders and bankers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u93	Mr Secretary of State, before asking you some questions about the New Bank, I begin by asking you about the insurance sector, which relates to the way we know about the financial sector, namely the financial sector, which measures are being taken by the Government in the context of monitoring the concentration of ownership in the sector and the use which has been made both of the guarantees and of the various pension funds, which, little by little, also begin to be managed by entities outside the country and which represent a very significant share of the wealth and national savings. On the New Bank, and I also include the GNB Life, which is part of the insurance industry, I ask the Secretary of State the following: what follow-up has the government of the process which has been conducted by the administration of the New Bank and the Resolution Fund, which essentially says the reduction in the New Bank's business with great sacrifice of workers? In fact, this sacrilege falls mainly on the workers, who are precisely those who have contributed nothing to the current New Bank situation, that is, in no way contributed to the BES having had the outcome it had and for the State to have to intervene in the New Bank. It is precisely the workers who are now paying for the bill of dismissals and the adventures of their bosses. Mr Secretary of State, it is necessary to safeguard the rights of these workers and it is necessary more than that: that the Government is zealous for the legality and respect of these workers, because what the administration of the New Bank is doing, by using blackmail and pressure on workers to accept redundancies headed in the form of voluntary terminations, cannot deserve any support or even silence on the part of this Government. Mr. Secretary of State, I will also ask you about the perspective for the New Bank. It has already been said here that the Government does not reject, does not deny any possibility, but, Mr Secretary of State, what we need to understand is that, if we deliver the New Bank, regardless of the price they pay for it, an shareholder or a private group, it is more than certain that this private group will continue the practices that characterize the private bank. We will not wait for the bankers to say « we already have to arrive ». No one has ever seen a banker say « we already have to arrive », because its nature precisely consists of accumulating and concentrating even more capital. Therefore, the practices will continue, will be perpetuated within the New Bank and the most sure thing is that, regardless of who buys it from here to a few years, we are again confronted with capital needs, resource deviations, without guarantees, because that's what the private bank does, that's its matrix, that's its genetic, let's say so. The possibility that we now have to keep this Bank in the public sphere at a cost that will not go beyond that which has already been spent should be taken not only as a possibility but as a political priority to ensure control of that Bank and also to preserve its strategic position in the Portuguese financial system and in financing the economy. I shall finish, Madam President and Mr Secretary of State, with a note on supervision. The PSD asked to say that the solution is in supervision. The Banco de Portugal is the supervision, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u94	You may conclude, Mr. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u95	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. Or you have not seen the committees of inquiry on the bank—which are already going in five, so it is time to see! — or, then, they want to mask the problem. It's just that supervision is what we see there, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they always know everything, they don't do anything, and most of the time they even have to say that they don't know anything! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u96	To reply, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u97	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, on the question he raised about the General Deposit Box and its recapitalisation with public funds, the Government is in close contact with the authorities, has been making such a reflection and is currently in a process of appointment of a new administration, since the administration that is still in office has already finished its mandate. These discussions are taking place in a rather civilized and promising way from the point of view of the State's capacity, as an shareholder, to capitalize the General Deposit Box precisely on the role of shareholder and without this being a State aid. That's what we're working on. With regard to the question which Mr Cristóvão Crespo has put to me, I cannot fail to note that I find it to be a little delicate and inappropriate to treat institutions as 'the thing'. I have not been heard to treat any institution of the Portuguese State, nor any party, for « the thing». [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the question which Mr Crespo raised on my position and that of the Prime Minister, I think they are relatively consistent. I have never heard Mr. Prime Minister say he was involved in negotiations between private agents. But the Government — Mr Prime Minister, Mr Finance Minister myself — obviously follows with great attention the negotiations between various actors on BCP, BPI, private banks, because private banks are important to the national economy and therefore we must be at all times aware of the impacts that this may have. One thing is to accompany, another thing is to intervene. Mr Paulino Ascenção raised a question concerning negative interest and how this will be reflected. Mr President, it is an issue that is not closed, it is a matter on which the Government is reflecting, because of course we have to honour contracts. I fully agree with you when you say that there must be and should be privileged through negotiation and banks should negotiate with their creditors ways of limiting the impact of interest rates on their operating accounts, but we also need to pay attention in the sense of strict application not to lead to problems with the financial system that ultimately falls on the back of taxpayers. That is what we are discussing, and that is what we have not yet held a closed position, but we will have to have a brief part.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u98	Mr. Secretary of State, please conclude. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u99	I shall certainly conclude, Madam President. With regard to the prospects for the New Bank, I believe that I have made it relatively clear here that we have left all possibilities open. We will do what is best for Portugal, for the Portuguese and the least expensive for taxpayers. I think I answered, or tried to answer every question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u101	Ms. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bank is a public good, whether we want it or not. The bank is a public good because it does not work without the power of the State, either through central banks as final lenders — the bank is the only entity with automatic and almost unlimited access to liquidity credits — either because the State is the guarantor and rescue when it runs badly to the bank, or because it is the State that gives value and reliability to the bank's largest asset, which is currency and money. The bank is a public good because it has the power to create « air » currency. Through credit, the bank creates purchasing power, creates, privately, coins. The bank is a public good because it is the transmitter of monetary policy—it is, indeed, Mr! The bank is a public good because it can decide and control the resources they circulate, controls the areas to which it gives credit, controls the volume of credit, controls whether there is more speculation or more credit to the production system. The bank is a public good because it has the power to generate crises. And so the bank can't fail. And because it can't fail, the bank is a public good. Therefore, the discussion we do here has nothing to do with prejudice, it simply has to do with the fact that we accept that the bank is a public good, it is a strategic good and that the private structure of incentives is not the best to manage a public good.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u103	In other words: what is more rational for Ricardo Salgado when Ricardo Salgado manages his own bank may not be the most rational for the country and for the stability of the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u104	It's happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u105	What is more rational for Oliveira and Costa when managing BPN may not be the most rational for either the system or the country. Then, when it goes wrong, the truth is that the bank is no longer from Ricardo Salgado, the bank is no longer from Oliveira and Costa, the bank is from the country, because they can no longer bear the losses of the bankrupt bank! That's why the bank is a public good! [[Congratulations from BE.]] To have an idea of the strategic role of the bank in Portugal, it is enough to study our own development since the 1980s. in the 1980s and subsequent years, political power left the bank free and found that the financial system was the future of the country's development, and the financial system was the future of the country's development, and the future was aggressive and unbridled credit, and the future was an incentive to real estate and construction, and the future was an easy income in low-productive sectors, and the future was astronomical and galloping fortunes in a country where everyone thought it could be bankers and in which everyone thought it could easily enrich. The free behavior of the bank is one of the causes of macroeconomic and external imbalances in our country. So what Ricardo Salgado decides to do is not just about him, it concerns all of us. When these imbalances became more evident, with a good help of austerity, the bank ceased to be a factor of leverage and growth, even if wrong, to become a pair of crickets to Portuguese growth and economic development.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u107	Today, we are faced with practical problems. The first practical problem is that there are no private solutions to the banking system, because if the banking system should be private, then it must find private solutions to its problems, and they do not exist. The system does not have to clean up its toxic assets, the system cannot combat deflation, the system cannot relaunch the economy and what it looks like is a new financial crisis caused by monetary policy supposedly to help banks that do not survive alone. The second practical problem is that the bank only survives today with public subsidies. I think it's so strange that a liberal accepts that the bank can only survive with public support. But that is what happens: State subsidies to the operation of the bank. The third problem is that, even with subsidies, Portuguese capitalists are so bankrupt that our only option is to hand our bank over to foreigners, with public subsidies paid by Portuguese taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, unless we defend that the BANIF solution is a good solution for the country—and I challenge anyone here to say that the BANIF solution is a good solution for the country—unless we are willing to be the backyard of the European Commission, the backyard of the European Central Bank, who think they can come here and send and dismiss our financial system, taking into account the interests of Santander and the concentration of capital in central Europe, the solution to the practical problems we have is that of public ownership. And what we cannot accept is that an ideological prejudice against public property can harm the best interests of the country. That's the worst: it's when prejudice takes away our vision to see the answers that are in front of us. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is obvious that public property is a necessary condition, but it is not a sufficient condition. We do not want a public bank that mimics the private bank, we want a public bank that can achieve objectives, which can have development principles in accordance with the objectives and priorities that are politically and democratically debated. One thing we know: the only way this happens is if the bank is public. And that is why we are debating a model that we think solves the problems of the bank and that is the best for the development of the country. We challenge someone to come here today to present a better model than this and that does not happen what happened to BANIF. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u110	Although Mrs Mariana Mortágua no longer has time to answer, she has the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u111	Mrs. President, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, made a set of statements regarding Dr. Ricardo Salgado. I would like to remind you, on this occasion, who was the first Prime Minister to say that "no" to Dr. Ricardo Salgado, at that time when courage, determination and commitment were needed to say that "no" to Dr. Ricardo Salgado. at that time, we did not hear the echo of MP Mariana Mortágua joining the benches of the majority of then and supporting this position, essential to restore many of the injustices that were made. [[PSD applause.]] This man who said "no" to Dr. Ricardo Salgado was Dr. Pedro Passos Rabbit. Perhaps the enthusiasm of the honourable Member, when dealing with these matters, had at the time been well guided to demonstrate to the Portuguese that what we were doing was an imperative of justice and impartiality and that we were dealing with the essential problems of the bank. But this debate is somehow polluted by looking at the door lock. We often look without seeing the room, and that takes away our clarity, because we do not look at structural issues and we deal with merely conjunctural issues. What is important is that, for years on end, there have been major difficulties on the part of the bank. In fact, there was an inadequate perception of the risk, there was an undisciplined and uncompromising credit award by both the private and the public. We have already been reminded of the tragic operations of the General Deposit Box that challenge the thesis that the honourable Member here formulated. But all this has, in its genesis, an essential problem that we must have the courage to resolve.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u112	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u113	It is that we have an inadequate economic model, based on public expenditure, in public-private partnerships, in non-marketable goods which drain the resources that could be applied in productive sectors for other sectors, such as real estate and public works, which put the Country and the financial system in a particularly sensitive situation and which we had the ability to improve.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u114	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u115	I will finish, Madam President. Now this was in the 2000s, it wasn't during the last legislature. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u116	As Mrs Mariana Mortágua said earlier, she has no time to answer. Therefore, we will continue with the interventions. To that end, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Taking a left slogan, the bank is too important to be left to the most radical left demagogy. It is essential that we have an understanding of the central importance that the financial system has, that we recognize the role that the State has — and this role is essential in relation to the financial sector — but also that, as a Parliament, we can define and fulfil the supervisory role that we have in relation to that financial sector. The analysis of what has happened in this House in recent years leads us to question European options and national options. European options in which an economic union has become a financial union and a banking union, without caution being given to the issues that have later contributed to a number of countries going through situations such as that for which Portugal has passed on to its financial sector. Precautions that did not exist in Portugal regarding supervision, which did not perceive the change of functions that pertained to Banco de Portugal and which maintained Olympic inefficiencies and historical incompetence. The Olympic inefficiency and historical incompetence of Banco de Portugal passed through BPN, BPP, BES and BANIF. So there is no country that withstands such incompetent supervision. It may even resist the wrong rules from a European point of view, but it cannot resist such incompetent supervision. The worst thing is that, together with this incompetent supervision, we had equivalent management on the part of the public bank. We do not in any way question the existence of a public bank, nor the role of the General Deposit Box, but question the management that was made of it for long periods. We question a management of the General Deposit Box that, instead of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, to support the Portuguese economic fabric, supported friends of its administrators to do business in the private sector, amassing losses with these businesses in the private sector. We questioned a management of the General Deposit Box that, when it was called to manage a nationalized bank, BPN, was almost as large an incompetence as the previous private management. That's what we're asking! We wonder why the problem is not to be public or private. Unfortunately, in Portugal, the public bank was as incompetent as the private bank. Therefore, the solution is to make who is inefficient and who is incompetent in competent and efficient, being monitored in this Parliament. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP José Pedro Aguiar Branco.]] That is what has already been done in five committees of inquiry, establishing responsibilities and establishing responsibilities. But because the Portuguese State is not only its Parliament, the Portuguese State, like any rule of law, has a separation of powers, it is also necessary to ask what the other powers have done. In view of the responsibilities and responsibilities that have been established in this Parliament, where is the consequence of the judicial system? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u118	Where are the convictions of those who — it was clear in this Parliament — were responsible for the millions that the State had to spend on the Portuguese taxpayers in private banks? This has nothing to do with the bank being public or private, it has to do with the justice system working or not working. And we cannot also comply with the discharge of responsibilities made in Parliament by Members and the total inconsequentialness of a judicial system which is unable to constitute as evidence what a Parliament finds as facts and is unable to constitute as accused those whom a Parliament is able to see as responsible. All this is to question a rule of law in all its dimensions and not to play a political-party game with issues that are too serious to be left to just one political-party game.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u120	The reality we have right now is very clear: there are those who are on the government's side and therefore have the responsibility to solve these problems and those who are on the side of the opposition who are also responsible for contributing, are not responsible for solutions. Let's go to a specific case: BANIF. There were parties in this House that voted in favour of the Reform Budget which allowed the delivery of BANIF to a Spanish bank under the unfavourable conditions in which this Bank was handed over and there were parties that voted against. There was only one party in this Parliament who voted against and that the next day did not support the government which handed over the Bank under these conditions to a Spanish bank: it was the CDS! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u121	It was you who prepared the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u122	The Left Block and the PCP will be able to cry out for the nationalization of the bank. You lied to your voters, as you saw today. In fact, Mr. Secretary of State was careful to clarify that there is no nationalization of the bank in the Government Programme. So what you are doing here today, in particular the CFP, is basically a debate to deceive curious people, to think that they are still defending what the government does not allow you to defend. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u123	The Left Block opts to do outdoors to deceive the distracted, wanting to convince its voters that it continues to defend what the Socialist Party Government, which supports, does not allow it to realize, and here it makes speeches to deceive voters. But there is a 'water proof' which does not allow you to deceive them: they will have to vote at the end of the day. And today is one of those days. Azar for the Communist Party, which chose this day for the debate. Today, you are doing an entire debate fooling the Portuguese, apparently different from the Socialist Party, but they will end up voting alongside the Socialist Party, voting alongside the government that handed BANIF over to a Spanish bank under highly unfavourable conditions. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Therefore, if someone is responsible today for this conduct of the financial system, it is the Socialist Party, it is the Left Block and it is the PCP. If you want to be different, let's prove -no,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u124	Have courage!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u125	...because speeches, outdoors and conversation to deceive curious and distracted is very little, and you will feel it in your vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u126	Mr. João Almeida has a request for clarification from Mr. João Galamba, and once again Mr. João Almeida has no time to answer. In any case, the Socialist Party has time, so if you wish to use it, you have the floor, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Almeida, before I address you, I would like to make a small comment on Mr Cristovão Norte's speech. Mr President, the Portuguese Prime Minister to say « no » to Ricardo Salgado was not Pedro Passos Coelho, was Vasco Gonçalves. And with an advantage vis-à-vis Pedro Passos Coelho : it was that at least it was consistent and did not do so by electoral strategy but because it defended, in fact, the public property of the bank, while Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho did so only for electoral reasons,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... I didn't want a solution probably less expensive than the one that ended up being made. Mr. João Almeida, let's see if we understand each other once and for all: Banif's operation is not a recapitalisation for delivery to Santander. It is an injection of public money to avoid liquidation and then a sale to Santander for EUR 150 million. This is because if I did not sell Santander for EUR 150 million, of two, one : or I would have to sell to another bank any, something that there was not, or, then, the only alternative was liquidation. by the successive interventions of Santander in the last two months, it seems that this was the only solution they were defending, and you can be sure, Mr. Deputies, that it was certainly not the best. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u128	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u129	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u130	For a genuine request to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u131	But that should be the direction of the bench to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u132	No, Madam President. On the conduct of the proceedings, any Member may make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u133	Say it, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u134	Madam President, I believe that requests for clarification without time to answer are already questionable from the point of view of the conduct of the work, but that is something the Conference of Leaders can consider. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, but my question is about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u135	You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. It can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u136	Another issue, even more substantial, is that there is one party that still has time and asks for clarification and another one that does not have to answer. That is, if you ask for the floor, it must be done for an intervention and not for a request for clarification to whom you do not have time to answer. It is a question of conduct of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u137	Mr President, your point of view has been made clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u138	Here's the reference. I think it was important that this question be examined, because it is not a good practice, in a Chamber where there is dialectic of the different parts, there are questions without right to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u139	Mr President, your point of view has been made clear. In fact, I was asking myself about the same subject. As you know from your long parliamentary experience, it was not today that the practice of speaking was initiated if parliamentary groups still have time available. In any case, I appeal that this issue be brought to the Conference of Leaders so that there is a common understanding on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u140	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u141	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u142	Madam President, it is to support your words. It seems the CDS likes to invent spontaneous traditions and above all not to apply them to itself, because what I just did is something the CDS often does, as well as all the parties in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u143	Mr President, your point of view has been clarified. I leave this open appeal to the various sides — and I will speak in person with the President of the Assembly of the Republic — so that this is an issue addressed at the Conference of Leaders. We will continue the work, now entering the period for the end of the debate. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we look at what has been our recent history, we realize that the decisions of several governments to hand over the bank to the private sector were a colossal mistake. In fact, the privatisation of the financial sector has destroyed value and has caused wealth to disappear, which was everyone's. It was a "satisfaction" to fatten the fortunes of a few, while at the same time representing large losses accumulated to the State and to Portuguese families. And today, ironic of irony, it is the Portuguese, the reformers, the workers, the unemployed and the social state who are called to pay the bill to go to a sector that literally resigned from the responsibility of empowering the economy and helping families. Playing, playing, there's already EUR 12 billion. I shall repeat: in the last five years alone, the state has placed more than EUR 12 billion in the bank. This is when we all know that it was not, and are not, the costs with the social functions of the State or public services, much less the taxpayers, those responsible for the indebtedness of States, but the financial system. If there were any doubts, the crisis that struck us from 2008 onwards would dispel any doubts about the extent of the error in alienating the bank. But the results are there: millionaire transfers of money from the productive sector to financial speculation; channelling money from depositors to lending to the companies of the banking groups themselves, often without any guarantee of return; and finally the distribution of large sums in dividends by their shareholders. It's a lot of money, it's a lot of millions that needed our economy, our production equipment and that so far nobody knows where to, nobody knows where it goes. Maybe some, maybe a lot has been handed over to any office in Panama. Maybe he's walking around, in any tax haven near you. We don't know. What we know is that it is not where it was necessary, where it should be to contribute to our development, to help improve the living conditions of Portuguese, i.e. in the Portuguese production sector. But past mistakes can be useful if we learn from them to avoid other mistakes. As time has shown, the conversation of the need for robustness of the national bank and its capitalisation, which, strictly speaking, ends up being the capitalisation of the European megabanks that are appropriate from it after properly cleaning up all the toxic symptoms, does not go beyond a pretext for everything to remain in it: to sink and the taxpayer to pay. This also adds to the role of the European Central Bank. Indeed, the ECB's strategy of creating a network of some — few but large — banks in the euro area is indisputably contrary to the interests of our country, since it will minimize national banking systems. And it was not by chance that the public debt crisis felt especially in the euro area. The euro area States have been completely resilient in the markets, with the ECB's complicity and the inability to finance the countries with it. It is therefore time to interrupt the domain of financial speculation. It is time to direct resources to our economy, to invest in our production, to create wealth and jobs. It is time that the bank no longer constitutes an activity that only serves to fatten the profits of a few and to become at the service of the country and its development, to enhance the fight against regional asymmetries and to be a constructive element for social justice. It is time to stop the moral monstrousness that represents forcing taxpayers to cover the hole caused by the bankers and pay for their irresponsibility. And this is only possible with the strengthening and recovery of public control of the bank. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u145	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : There is a first idea that is clear in this debate, which is that no one today is able to defend the virtualities of the private ownership and management of the bank. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]] Today it is very clear that the private ownership and management of the bank did not serve the country, nor did the Portuguese. on the contrary, thinking only of the profit of its shareholders, without looking at means, often resorting to the most illegitimate and corrupt means, namely the use of offshore and other mechanisms of bleaching their practices, the private bank was responsible for national imbalances, instability, economic and social degradation of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u148	The private bank has never been part of the solution, it has always been part of the country's problems. Those who, for years, have supported the reprivatization of the bank and who, for years, have made many gala in the private bank, today claim the intervention of the State, without wanting to remove the proper consequences from there, without any recognition that, without the intervention of the State, without the financial aid, tax protection and the guarantees of the State, their ideal model of the private bank would have collapsed entirely, to the detriment of the people and the country and as a result of this management essentially oriented to speculation and to the systematic fattening of the shareholder capital. Even if PSD and CDS have come to this debate whitening the successive scandals of BPN, BPP, BCP, BES and BANIF... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ... even though PSD and CDS have come to whitewash their own responsibilities particularly in the scandal of BES and BANIF, which have led diligently, one by one, to the solutions that are known today, even though PSD and CDS continue to praise banking management « à la Oliveira e Costa » or « Espírito Santo », because they identify themselves with the way the PSD and CDS themselves have dealt with the management of the country in government, we will not fail to denounce that they are the private property and management that are mirrored in these financial scandals that have sunk the Portuguese financial system and, with it, also the Country. [[PCP applause.]] One of the problems encountered in this debate is the loss of national sovereignty of the financial system, with the loss of monetary sovereignty and the issuance of currency by the ECB, with banking union and the surrender to supranational entities of regulatory and supervisory responsibilities in their single mechanisms. But there is a loss of national sovereignty also following the privatization of the bank and its progressive domain by foreign capital, the speeding up of the process of centralisation and capital concentration at the European Union level, with which the closure of smaller banks is promoted, the merger, the concentration of deposits and investments in large financial corporations. This results in a clear conclusion: the limitation of national sovereignty in relation to the financial system, the strengthening of the European Union's decision-making capacity in this area, the development of banking union and the single regulatory and supervisory mechanisms will not solve any of the problems of the financial sector, but only the objectives of concentration and centralisation of financial capital in the megabanks of the powers of the European Union. Two ideas are becoming clearer in the eyes of Portuguese: the first is that the need to contain the great systemic risks requires the public control of the financial system. It is not acceptable that people continue to pay the private property and management costs of the bank. The need to contain the major systemic risks that persist for the economy, to prevent further transfers of damage to the Portuguese people, to ensure the solvency, liquidity and regular functioning of financial institutions, to ensure effective regulation of supervision and supervision of the bank requires the public control of the financial system and to ensure that the damage to private financial institutions is made with the capital and reserves of its own and with the resources, assets and assets of its economic groups and key shareholders, rather than the public expenditure. The second idea that is becoming clear, and that the CFP has been referring for a long time, is that the bank is either public or not national. The public bank is the only possibility to guarantee the public and national interest, to avoid serious guidelines determined by transnational financial capital centres, to limit distortions of competition by large private banking concentration, to recover an essential lever for the sovereign development of the country... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u149	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u150	I shall conclude, Mr President. The central aspect of this debate is that the public control of the bank is a condition for the development of national sovereignty. It is not enough condition, but it is necessary condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u152	We need a gradually enlarged and strengthened public sector, articulated and balanced, consisting of distinct and well-sized autonomous institutions, if any with geographical and functional differentiation, and that, together with the other elements of the financial sector, they are under increased regulation, supervision and public supervision of national authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u153	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u154	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is possible to reorganise the banking system not in the interest of profits and the accumulation of national and foreign economic groups that implement it, but of the national economy, the people and the country, starting with the definitive nationalisation of the New Bank. This is the programme and project presented by the CFP in the Assembly of the Republic and by which it will continue to beat itself in defense of development and national sovereignty. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u155	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate that the CFP brought today on the public bank, there is a question which, I believe, will be relevant and to which the CFP has not been able to answer. It is that nationalizing the bank is also to nationalize its losses. The question that the CFP did not answer is this: if the CFP revolts - much against the bill paid by taxpayers - and rightly so! — why, then, would you like to send them an invoice which is two, three, ten times greater than that which taxpayers have already paid? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u157	We just gave him the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u158	Because that is what you are proposing, i.e. that all bank losses should run on account of the taxpayer. Nor does it fail to be extraordinary that the CFP should raise many criticisms and see many shortcomings in the New Bank's resolution and go beyond the fact that it was the only resolution and the only public intervention in a bank where the account was not for taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] You say that it will have an effect indirectly, but in relation to a number of resolutions that have been taken directly, such as the one made by the current government and that you support, there is a total whitening. [[PCP protests.]] It's silence! They are against the past, but in relation to the present, where the bill is direct and high for taxpayers, you are silent! Shut up and obey! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u159	It's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u160	Secondly, in the wonderful new world of PCP, how will this bank be managed? It's the public bank! Management will be great!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u161	Private is "great"!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u162	But there is a problem that you don't answer. You rightly criticize supervision, they say it is incompetent. So, supervising, the public power is incompetent, but managing will be wonderful? What's the point of this? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u163	Long live the Holy Spirit! You are great admirers of Ricardo Salgado!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u164	Thirdly, this CFP strategy is still very interesting because it defends a far future that is far-reaching but, in relation to the present, nothing says.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u165	Well, why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u166	Let's see: the CFP argues that in the future the whole bank must be public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what about the bank that is already public? And in relation to the past management of the General Deposit Box, which, yes, generated poor credit, which, yes, generated credits and losses? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing is the absolute whitening of what was the public management of the General Deposit Box during the time of the PS governments. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's absolute whitening. They don't say anything! And, with regard to the present of the General Deposit Box and what it could do, so that you would like to defend more credit for SMEs, greater promotion of the economy, to have proposals for the Box? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u167	We put forward proposals and the CDS voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u168	How about, when they negotiate votes that enable the government that you support, they start negotiating this? Oh, my God! [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u169	Ricardo Salgado is so good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u170	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand very well: from the point of view of the principles and speeches, the CFP today defends a utopian world, but from the point of view of practice, what you do is to support this government and what you are doing today is to vote in favour of a stability programme that goes, in practice, to be exactly contrary to what you are defending.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u171	Don't get confused!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u172	This is how the PCP mask will fall today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u173	The bankers are good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u174	Listen to the PS and obey!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u175	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is about one of the main factors of governance and democratic choices in any country, i.e. the financial system, the banking system. At least it would be hoped that there would be some responsibility in this debate, who would remember the recent past, who would remember the choices he made and who would have alternatives to such an important debate. Now, here we have had a forgotten right, unable to look into four years of the recent past and without bringing, at least, a project to the country. He was unable to defend what he says is his ideological matrix: the possibility of private management. There is no proposal for private bank management that resists our recent history. Private management of BPN : public disaster. Private management of BPP : public disaster. BES private management : public disaster. Private management of BANIF : public disaster. These are the disasters of private management which, when they lead the banks to kneel, always lead them to knock on the door of the State so that it is the State to pay for what the privates have ruined. That is why we do not accept and that is why, in this important debate, we do not hear a right-wing program, a right-wing project capable of defending this private management. There is no good private management of the bank, the examples are here to demonstrate it. We had a question or a curious position on the side of the CDS. This is because, if the PSD said there was nothing to point to the last government, that the bank's stability was there for us all to see, what we realized was that the bank's stability, for the PSD, is the BES disaster or the BANIF disaster. The only thing that is stable, after the governance of the PSD / CDS, is the maintenance of the instability of the financial sector. on the side of the CDS, we heard that, after all, there is no difference between public or private management, it has to be competent and efficient versus incompetent management or inefficient management. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, no, that's not true. It is not true that we are condemned to have inefficient management in the General Deposit Box and is curious how it is about CDS incompetence we speak when we talk about the incompetence of the General Deposit Box administrators. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Who chose, after all, the Administration of the General Deposit Box, which was for four years to do its administration? It was PSD and CDS. But then, those incompetent administrators were appointed by whom? due to the incompetence of PSD and CDS. That's the reality. [[Congratulations from BE and some PS Members.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] More: the incompetence of the Governor of Banco de Portugal was also pointed out by the CDS. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I follow the idea. It is true that there is incompetence in Banco de Portugal, particularly its Governor. But who promoted its maintenance, when we had seen that we were in front of a pyroman who should be in the fireman's place, was the pyroman who was there and not the fireman? Who put him back in charge? It was PSD and CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]] After all, it's really a conversation to deceive, what the right now brought us. It is a conversation to deceive, about a subject that is too serious to be treated with this leviance. We do not accept that the State is the toxic waste recycling machine of private banks. It is not acceptable and the money we have to pay for health, to pay for education, to pay what is the right to have a strong social state in our country cannot be destroyed to pay for the holes of Ricardo Salgado, the governance of PSD, BPN or all the negotiations of friends and friends of those who are the elite of our country. We do not accept this and that is why we want more serious answers. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In conclusion, Mr President, the most serious answer we have to give right now is about the New Bank. We cannot accept that the New Bank serves to give another episode to this path of public recycling of private disasters. So if you are there public money, and you really are, Mr. João Almeida, there are 3900 million euros of public money in the New Bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u177	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u178	...then, it must also be public, in order to defend the economy, jobs and job creation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u179	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is any sign that the implementation of the Assistance Programme wanted to leave in the country was the mark of redemption austerity, the healing of all the evils of the public accounts and redemption, some said, of those who lived above their possibilities. A mark that remained, and still remains, in wages, pensions, the tax burden, the social benefits of the poorest, but also in public debt and private debt. The results were mediocre and therefore also impacting the backbone of the Portuguese economy in the banking sector. Thousands and thousands of companies suffered double: less demand, more financing costs and, up to a certain point, lack of liquidity. One over-indebtedness, it is true, one over-indebtedness, abruptly cut could only generate more bankruptcy, more unemployment, less tax revenue and more difficulties in reaching the budgetary targets, but also more impartiality, depreciation of collateral and net bank results very, very negative. at the end of three years, the Assistance Programme left a country connected to the ECB machine to contain sovereign debt interest rates. There were three consecutive years of failed budget targets, with 12 State budgets and eight corrections, with the fall of two banks representing, together, more than 23 % of the market share in deposits, and with a public effort in deficit and debt of more than EUR 7 billion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a balance sheet of an economic and financial policy option which has proved disastrous and which has found its 'clean exit', lying beneath the carpet the very difficult situation in which, among others, the banking sector is located. The situation of the Portuguese bank is also, to a large extent, the consequence of the prejudice that has cast all responsibility for the difficult situation in which the country was in, and finds, for the management of the public thing, hiding that, in good truth, private debt constitutes, and constituted, a fundamental object to growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The option for a path of more and more austerity, at the same time as the financial sector was the subject of strong de-alalalvantage, with a decrease in the transformation ratio and demands of more own funds, has made banking business less profitable, accumulating inequalities, at the same time as it was forced to strengthen its own capital. Bank bailout is not just a consequence of management, it is also a consequence of the political option for more austerity, which has generated more inequalities in credit and more depreciated collateral. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members said: « A real perfect storm». Of course, austerity with more non-compliance, more regulatory obligations, more need for own capital, an anemic economy, without new business, when the asset slab without profitability, in particular those that depend on indexers, such as housing credit, continues to negatively affect results accounts and to deteriorate the expectations of a better future. As if it were not enough, the banking union remains incomplete. A third pillar is missing from a European supervisory and resolution framework, a European deposit guarantee fund. And in view of this, with European supervision and resolution, but constituting the national budget as the real guarantor of financial sustainability, we have an unbalanced system, a system that does not allow taxpayers to ensure that they do not contribute to supporting what is the management error and the mismanagement of many banking entities. Mr. President and Mr. Members, there are those who refer to the banking system as the circulatory system of the economy. in our case, the heart, the economy, beats little, the veins are obstructed by poor quality credits and the doctor who wants us to deal with health, often the ECB, prescribes remedies with many, but many, side effects for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u181	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u182	If there is merit in this initiative of the CFP, it is to raise the issue of the banking system, seeking to anticipate problems and, together, to seek solutions. In conclusion, the PS and surely also the XXI Constitutional Government will not escape this debate. Don't expect us to pull under the rug what needs to be solved today. We saved the country to emergency solutions, more and more costly, as we have seen. Let us not postpone what time will make inevitable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u183	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: At the end of this debate, I would like to highlight five aspects on which the Portuguese demand to hear answers. Some of the issues that have been discussed here are, of course, the financial system and the nationalisation of the bank, and, as such, it is very important to clarify the Portuguese on what happened here this morning. Point one, supervision. There will be no balanced, stable and predictable financial system that does not affect taxpayers without supervision that constitutes a benchmark of independence, equidistant from banks and bankers' interests. Finally, a true market regulator. Point two, banking union. It was very important to set up the European Supervisory Authority, as the establishment of the bank resolution mechanism was decisive. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u185	Unfortunately, the last pillar of the banking union was not implemented, the famous European Resolution Fund, so important and for which the former Prime Minister was strongly committed, with important public interventions, but which has now, unfortunately, been removed from the negotiating table in Europe and on which the current Government and the Prime Minister said nothing. He remembered well, Mr Brilliant Days : for a government that beats Europe's feet and shouts 'we did not pay', Mr Prime Minister, it is very little! [[Protests of PS Members.]] Point three, financing the economy. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, the problem is not only in the financial system, it is in the lack of confidence of investors and in Portugal's lack of capacity to attract international investors. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone dare to invest in a country that lacks profound reforms for its evolution and where the action of the government that took possession is restricted to reverse the reforms that the previous government has carried out? Oh, my God! Does anyone trust a country whose first act of government is annulling, canceling and converting contracts and concessions? Oh, my God! To give you a reference, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are watching a debate this week on a television channel with João Salgueiro, which referred to the worrying halting of investment in Portugal. And I will quote it: 'in recent months, it has been of such order that the European authorities have asked Portugal if there was any graham...' — see, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if "there was any grate" — "...in the investment parameter, because we were the country that was further away from others in terms of changing investment prospects. Suddenly everything is stopped». Point four, bad bank. Strangely enough, I haven't heard anyone talk at this point about the bad bank. But, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Prime Minister, your leader, in a coffee talk, launched the idea of a bad bank. With what money, Secretary of State, are you going to create this bad bank? To pay for what and to whom? I think it's been long enough to get to know your strategic thinking and your plan for the bad bank. Mr. João Galamba, I assure you, the PSD is not available to be the Portuguese to pay for the socialist banquet negotiations. Point five, nationalization. Mr Miguel Tiago, you defend the nationalization of all means of production by purely ideological matters,... [[PCP protests.]] ...it is not for objective reasons, nor for improving the conditions of the economy. You want to nationalize the whole country — transport, health, education, everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u186	Oh, is it? Oh, my God! This is the most obvious example!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u187	But, Mr, it does not appear that it is state-owned public control to solve all problems. Mr. João Oliveira, there is no evidence that the communist-inspired countries have their problems solved, some even asking for help from the IMF. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u188	Another defender of Ricardo Salgado! You're talking Ricardo Salgado from the rostrum!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u189	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the state public control of the bank causes the country to lose reputation and the removal of foreign investment. It is time for caution and prudence and for us to build an increasingly comprehensive and demanding system, capable of restructuring the Portuguese confidence, and national interest in it obliges us to do so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u190	To close this debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State, the Treasury and Finance Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in my final speech, I cannot but begin by thanking the Portuguese Communist Party for the possibility of having this debate here. I believe that, after a prolonged and extremely harsh financial crisis for all Portuguese, all discussions are legitimate. We must have an openness of spirit and thought and be able to discuss what many of us thought were fixed truths and did not deserve any kind of discussion. It is absolutely clear to everyone that the government has a perspective on the financial system that is not the one defended by the CFP. These differences have been assumed, and are assumed, from the outset, because the Government has parliamentary support that recognises the differences and that exploits, above all, what are the similarities and the space of understanding between the forces, in Parliament, which support the government and have allowed a policy that turns the page of austerity and puts the country in the path of more equal and inclusive growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Mrs Mariana Mortágua pointed out, the bank has the characteristics of a public asset. The bank is a public good, it generates externalities. And by that way we cannot treat it as if it were another kind of good. The banking system generates risks, and generates risks that affect the lives of all companies, all Portuguese and the ability to create a country's wealth. So the financial crises have the characteristics that we unfortunately know well. The question is whether the best way to deal with this externality and with this public good is by direct control by the State or by indirect control based on several institutions that, operating efficiently and in a balanced way, allow stable financing of the economy that ensures growth. The Government's option, which is clear in the Government's Programme, goes through this second option, an option that goes through having a strong public bank capable of providing credit to the economy and providing a set of market failures : the General Deposit Box. But this public bank can't be a public money baker.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u192	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u193	And it cannot be a bank that simply transfers money from taxpayers to the private sector and subsidizes the private sector. This bank, defined in this way, does not have space and does not exist. It must be a bank that has a medium-term perspective, a bank that finances investment, that finances small and medium-sized enterprises, that finances wealth creation and that is able to finance some sort of initiative than private banks, because they have a faster and easier search for profit, often are not available to do. A second pillar, fundamental, is financial supervision, which has been quite talked about here. Financial supervision is the ultimate guarantee that banks, whether public or private, have an alignment between what is the interests of their shareholders, the interests of their managers and the interest of the economy, as a client of the funds provided by the financial sector. Supervision must ensure that deposits are secure and that banks have adequate internal risk policies and that they do not generate amounts and volumes of non-performance credits, called non-performing loans, which undermine not only the sustainability of the bank which accumulates these credits as consequently the trust of other banks. But for this, supervision has to use all the instruments at its disposal, it has to use the instruments that pass through intrusivity, the ability to be inside the banks, to know what applications are made, where they are made, and, to the limit, it has to withdraw the suitability when it understands that the members of these boards of directors acted on behalf of interests that are different from those who should be defending. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore essential that supervision assumes a status of credibility, which is capable of being the representative of what is the Portuguese State, as a supervisory entity, with the European authorities, together with the Single Supervisory Mechanism. The Portuguese supervisory entity is the Portuguese supervisory entity with the Eurosystem, not the ECB with Portugal. Therefore, one cannot stop investing in training, investing in the ability of supervisory institutions to have frameworks capable of monitoring the complexity of the system. But there is also another issue that arises here, the question of the punitive arm, the possibility of punishing those who acted against the interests not only of the shareholders but also of society and the economy as a whole. It is certainly possible to have a mechanism of punishment and a mechanism of clearance of responsibilities that are able to bring to justice those who, in their own interests, have read the savings of many and many taxpayers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u194	On the public and private management of the bank, there are no closed ideas here, so we have to continue this discussion. There is a question of incentives that must be taken into account, and the alignment of these fundamental incentives must be taken into account. The market has a role, but there is a role of supervision and there is a role of justice. And these roles of supervision and justice must be strengthened. Finally, and to conclude, as regards the European Deposit Guarantee Fund, this is essential for the completion of the banking union. This deposit guarantee fund has not disappeared, it exists and discussions continue to exist. What exists in Europe is an orthodoxy in view of this deposit guarantee fund from a certain opinion and from a certain position of some orthodox right that believes that the risk reduction that existed with the establishment of a Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Resolution Mechanism must be complemented by an even smaller link between what is the financial system and even more rigorous risk assessment mechanisms, which basically lead to an additional concentration of the bank. Against that, we will be beating-CL. And we will also beat-CL to make the European Deposit Guarantee Fund move forward. But this is a discussion that continues to exist and that is not over. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u195	With this statement by the Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance, we have concluded the debate on the financial system and public control of the bank. from the second point of our agenda, there is the schedule of Bill No. 183 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — It regulates the access to pregnancy of replacement in cases of absence of the uterus, injury or disease of this organ which impedes pregnancy in an absolute and definitive manner, making the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September (BE), but without time for discussion. Therefore, before we enter the voting period, I will give the floor to the Secretary to read the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 184 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Concretes the right of collective bargaining of workers in the regional administrations ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 276 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Preparation and presentation of the White Paper on the State of the Environment ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 277 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open a new section of the work based in Almada ( BE ) in Lisbon, which falls to 1. the Commission, 278 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the urgent need for works of recovery and benefit of the CI1, in the section Alcácer do Sal / Grândola ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 279 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently initiate de-absorption operations in the port of Póvoa de Varzim and promote studies to find durable solutions to the problem of absorption in several national ports ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 280 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to allow for the collection of water and the linkage of Lucefécit hydro-agricultural use to the albueira de Alqueva ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u197	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. I would ask the services to act on their mechanism and on the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 220 presences, to which 6 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Members. Deputies Maria Luís Albuquerque e Cristóvão Simon Ribeiro, of the PSD, Fernando Jesus and Palmira Maciel, of the PS, Pedro Mota Soares, of the CDS-PP, and Jerome de Sousa, of the PCP, which makes 226 Sr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 69 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Despite the death of journalist Lília João Bernardes de Freitas ( PSD, PS and BE ). Mr Secretary will proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « With higher education in Communication, Culture and Organizations, by the University of Madeira, and after graduation by the Military Academy in Competitive Intelligence, Lília João Bernardes de Freitas carried out practically all his professional activity as a journalist, being to highlight the more than 20 years to which he devoted himself as correspondent, in Madeira, of the Diário de Noticias. during his career as a journalist, he reported and investigated important moments in the history of Madeira and Portugal. He also accompanied several Heads of State on travel abroad. Strong advocate of freedom of the press, the need for impartiality and the duty to inform with rigour, Lília Bernardes highlighted his use of writing, professionalism and the passion with which he played journalism. in the last year, he served as Deputy to Social Communication in the Office of the Presidency of the Regional Government, maintaining the same dedication and professionalism. Thus, for its high contribution to information with rigor and exemption and for its professionalism and dedication, in journalism and in all the positions in which he performed, the Assembly of the Republic approves a vote of regret for the death of Lília João Bernardes de Freitas, addressing the deepest and most sincere condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now vote on vote No 70 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemnation by the genocide of Christians and other religious minorities in Africa and the Middle East ( CDS-PP ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u200	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « One of the most tragic events in today's world is undoubtedly the brutal investment of fundamentalist movements, particularly Daesh, Boko Haram and Al-Shabaab, against Christians and other religious and ethnic minorities, especially in the regions of Africa and the Middle East. These jihadist terrorist groups view all those who do not follow their dictates and profess a different belief of theirs as a target of slaughter and persecution, causing feelings of fear and insecurity, establishing an inevitable climate of terror in the populations and seeking to sow hatred between the West and Islam. The decline in religious pluralism and, in particular, in the presence of Christianity, in these regions, is a worsening of regional instability and a progressive disappearance of interreligious cooperation. Religious freedom and harmony are broken, and brutally and fanatically, brutal and persecution marches against minorities. It is therefore difficult not to exaggerate the dramatic consequence that this genocide march has for the survival of Christian communities in Africa and the Middle East, in a scenario of increasing degradation of human rights and civil liberties. This is not a new phenomenon: the Foundation Helping the Church that Suffers ( AIS ) recorded, in a report published last year, a significant increase in the violation of religious freedom and violence against Christians in the world, especially in Africa and the Middle East, between 2013 and 2015. It should also be borne in mind that, according to the same report, 80 per cent of acts of religious persecution are perpetrated against Christians. In view of this data, Portugal, as a member country of the UN Human Rights Council, cannot remain inert before a situation of genocide with serious consequences for world peace and stability and indifferent to the suffering of Christian communities and other religious minorities. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic, associating itself with the Resolution of the European Parliament on the systematic and mass murder of religious minorities by the Islamic State, adopted on 4 February 2016 : 1 — Recognizes the terrible genocide, motivated and pressured by fundamentalism and religious radicalism, whose mobilization and cruelty have reached extraordinary concern over Christians and members of other religious minorities in Africa and the Middle East; 2 — Strongly condemns the genocidal and heinous actions of terrorist and fundamentalist groups, especially Daesh, which constitute a serious crime against humanity, classified as such in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u201	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u202	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u203	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u204	Mr President, it is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party has already issued a declaration of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u205	Be registered and delivered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 221 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote corporate capitalisation and diversification of its sources of financing ( PSD ). As you know, at the request of the PS, this draft resolution will be voted on in an unbundled manner. I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not have problems that are perfectly beyond them. We shall therefore begin by voting on points (a) to (f) of paragraph 1 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We are now voting on paragraph 1 ( g ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 2 (a) of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on paragraph 2 ( b ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] We now vote on points ( c) and ( d ) of paragraph 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote under paragraph 2 ( e) and (f). [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] We then voted point (a) of paragraph 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] We turn to the vote in paragraph 3 ( b ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] We now vote on points ( c) and ( g ) of paragraph 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on points (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph 3. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and the Greens, against the CFP and the NAP.]] The vote on points ( a ), ( e ), ( f ), ( h) and (j) of paragraph 4 of the same draft resolution shall follow. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote under points ( b ), ( c ) and ( d ) of paragraph 4. [[Votes were put to the vote, with votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens, votes for the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PS and the NAP.]] Finally, we voted for paragraphs 4 ( 4 ) and 4 ( i ). [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u206	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u207	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u208	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to this draft resolution and the other eight that we are going to vote on and which were discussed last Wednesday, the CFP will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u209	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 230 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to improve the qualification of Portuguese ( PSD ). There will also be a breakdown in this vote. As such, we shall begin by voting on paragraphs 1, 9 and 11 to 13 (a) of this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraphs 2, 6 and 10, as set out in point ( a ). [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on paragraphs 3 to 5, 7, 8 and 14, as set out in point ( a ). [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The vote on paragraph 15 and 17 (b) of the draft resolution is hereby followed. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote on points 16 and 18 (b). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] We proceeded to the vote on paragraph 19 (c) of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on paragraphs 20, 21 and 25, as set out in point ( c ). [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now vote on paragraphs 22, 23 and 24, as set out in point ( c ). [[Votes were put to the vote and voted in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PS and the NAP.]] We now vote on paragraph 26, as set out in point ( d ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote on paragraph 27, as set out in point ( d ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraphs 28 and 29, as set out in point ( e ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraph 30, also set out in point ( e ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 244 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a set of measures promoting the exploitation of the territory ( PSD ), for which there is also a request for the purpose of voting to be split up. This is where we need to be very careful, because this is going to look more like Bingo than anything else. Thus, in the first group we have the vote of paragraphs 1 to 9, 14, 18, 19, 22 to 24, 26 to 29, 31, 32, 34 and 35. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraphs 10, 15 to 17, 30 and 37. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraphs 11 to 13, 20, 21, 25, 33, 36, 38 and 39. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 251 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote innovation in the economy ( PSD ), which will also be carried out in an unbundling manner. So let us first vote on paragraphs 1, 3 to 6, 9, 10 ( a ), 14, 15, 20 and 23. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraphs 2, 7, 11 to 13, 16, 18, 19, 21, 22, 30 and 31. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Finally, we shall vote on paragraphs 8, 10 ( b ), 17, 24 to 29, 32 and 33. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we now proceed to the vote, also in an unbundled way, of draft resolution No 260 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include a set of measures in the area of justice ( PSD ) under the National Reform Programme. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin by voting on paragraph 1 of this draft resolution. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraphs 2 and 7. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on paragraphs 3 to 6, 8 and 9 of the same motion for a resolution. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now move on to draft resolution No 262 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to strengthen social cohesion and equality ( PSD ), the vote of which will also be broken down. We shall proceed to the vote on paragraphs 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 15, 17, 18, 20 and 21. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on paragraphs 3, 11 to 14 and 19. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall now vote on paragraphs 4, 7, 9 and 16 of draft resolution No 262 / XIII ( 1. ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP were adopted, against the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 263 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — By a National Health Service, with quality health care and equity in access, better health promotion and more disease prevention ( PSD ), which will also be voted out. We shall therefore proceed to the vote under points ( c ), ( j ) and ( n ) of paragraph 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points of paragraph 1. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote under points ( a ), ( l ), ( r ), ( s ), ( x ), ( y ) and ( z) of paragraph 2 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining points of paragraph 2. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote in paragraph 3 ( j ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP were rejected.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining points of paragraph 3. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to draft resolution No 265 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the national reform plan, introduce a set of amendments to maintain a path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ), whose vote will also be broken down. We shall proceed to the vote on points ( i ), ( ii ), ( iii ) of the draft resolution. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on point ( iv ) of this draft resolution. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point ( b) of draft resolution No 265 / XIII. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on points ( i ), ( iii ) and ( iv ) of this draft resolution. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on point ( c ), point ( ii ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point ( v) of point ( c ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point (d ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point ( i ) of point ( e ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on point ( ii ) of point ( e ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point ( i ) of point ( f ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point ( ii ) ( f ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on points ( i ), ( ii ), ( iii ), ( vii ) and ( viii ) of point ( g ). [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points ( iv) and ( v) of point ( g ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point ( vi ) of point ( g ). [[The vote was taken by votes to PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and NAP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point ( h ) ( iii ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] Let us vote on points ( i ). ( ii ), ( iv ) e(v ) in point ( h ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on point ( i). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then vote on point ( i ) of point ( j ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed with the vote on points ( ii ) and ( iii ) of point ( j ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PS and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u211	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, ask for the floor for what effect? I hope it will not be to repeat these votes. [[General laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u212	No, Mr. President, I daren't. I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party will present a statement of vote on draft resolutions Nos 221 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), 230 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 244 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 251 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 260 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 262 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 263 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), the PSD, and on draft resolution No 265 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u213	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 271 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Stability Programme 2016 - 2020 and national reform plan ( CDS-PP ) ( operative part replaced by the author ). The CDS-PP requested that point 1 be voted on first and then point 2. We shall then vote on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u214	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u215	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u216	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the eccentric votes we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u217	Mr President, your statement of vote will certainly be concentric. Be registered. We now vote on draft resolution No 105 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government intervene with the Government of Spain in order to close the Almaraz ( PAN ) nuclear power plant. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[PAN and PS Members applauded.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 202 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make every effort with the Spanish State to close the nuclear power plant in Almaraz ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões.]] Mrs. Ana Mesquita, I see you're asking for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u218	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u219	We move forward to the vote on draft resolution No 155 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce the ban on hunting in the Sierra da Malcata Natural Reserve ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, The Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and the PS abstention.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 164 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit hunting in the Sierra da Malcata Natural Reserve ( PAN ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, The Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and the PS abstention.]] Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u220	Mr President, it is to inform again that we will present a statement of vote on draft resolutions 155 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 164 / XIII ( 1. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u221	We shall vote on draft resolution No 175 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the mitigating measures concerning oil coke discharges in the port of Aveiro ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 209 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the implementation of the petcoke dust measures plan in the port of Aveiro ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 223 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the implementation of mitigating measures relating to the transport and storage of oil coke in the port of Aveiro and the monitoring of environmental quality ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 27 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the urgent resolution of the problems of Hospital S. John of God and in defense of the improvement of health care in the Town Hall of Vila Nova de Famalicão ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on the requests submitted by the CFP and BE respectively, requesting that the Health Commission be discharged without a vote for a period of 15 days of draft resolutions No 138 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — improving the quality of service provided by the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo ( PCP ) and 253 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on the drafts of lein. 38 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeal of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and competences ( PACC) ( BE) and 46 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sets out the requirements for access to the teaching profession and ensures the annulment of the effects of the skills and knowledge assessment test ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Paragraphs 33 to 40 of the Journal are hereby approved for plenary meetings held on 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 23 and 24 February 2016. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Finally, Mr Secretary will take note of an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is an opinion relating to the judicial proceedings n. 2793 / 12.3TBVFR, of the Comarca de Aveiro, Santa Maria da Feira, 2. the Cable Section, to authorize Mr António Topa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to intervene in the proceedings under the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-29.u223	Then let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before giving an account of the agenda for the next sitting, I would like to thank the other members of the Bureau and the services for their work in organizing these votes in such a short time. They were, indeed, very effective. on Wednesday, May 4th, at 3 p.m., the interpellation No 1 / XIII will take place ( 1. ( a ) — On the sustainability of social security and the use of the Financial Stability Fund ( PSD ). Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good afternoon and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 14 minutes.]]
