ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask everyone to take over the seats and the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. We will start the debate on the state of the nation. As you know, this debate takes place with a specific regime. There is an initial intervention by the Government, and the Government has the power, if any, to transfer time available from the first intervention to the stage of the debate. This phase is initiated with requests for clarification to the Prime Minister in the following order: PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN, competing 5 minutes for each question and having an individual answer in this first round by Mr. Prime Minister. Follow-up will be a second round with two-minute questions, opting for the response regime you understand to choose. I remember all the ladies. Members who, at the end of this debate, will have to vote on the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I would like to ask for conditions to be created in the Chamber so that the interventions can begin, and I look forward precisely to my appeal being heard, and I give the floor to make the initial intervention to the Prime Minister, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Government has taken office for three fundamental purposes. First, to constitute a parliamentary majority which corresponds to the desire for change expressed by the majority of Portuguese in the elections of 4 October. Second, turn the page of austerity, beginning the recovery of family income, creating conditions for the investment of companies and honouring our commitments with the European Union. Thirdly, to put an end to a model of competitiveness based on the destruction of rights and the promotion of low wages and to draw a new model of development based on qualification, innovation and modernization. At the end of seven months, the first word that marks this balance sheet is: we meet. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a parliamentary majority consistent in the diversity of their identity, consistent in the implementation of the joint positions that founded it and stable to the horizon of the legislature. We have fulfilled our commitment that we would overcome the permanent standstill in which our country lived, building a climate of social peace and institutional normality. Portugal is today a country in which sovereignty agencies cooperate in the defence of national interest. A country where it is possible to build commitments between the Government, the President of the Republic and the Assembly of the Republic. A country in which regional autonomy is respected and the autonomy of local democratic power is deepened. Portugal lives today a climate of greater trust and serenity, where social dialogue is more active and the door to social dialogue has been opened. A country where from January to May the strike notice dropped from 454 last year to 194, in this year 2016. We can therefore say: let us promise and fulfill. We have accomplished the recovery of family income. We eliminated the overtax of the IRS, lowered the maximum rate of the IMI and reintroduced its safeguard clause, put an end to the collapse of the homes of households, rejected the social minimums (the solidarity complement for the elderly, the social income of insertion and the family allowance), reduced the moderate health rates and extended the social energy rate. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] And at the beginning of the next school year, the manuals of the 1. the year of 1. the cycle, for the first time, will be free for all Portuguese families. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] We have complied with the rights of pensioners. We rejected the cut of EUR 600 million in pensions with which the previous government had committed itself, ended with the extraordinary contribution of solidarity and updated the retirement pensions. We have fulfilled the value of work.As we have the national minimum wage, we have eliminated the cuts in salaries of civil servants, we have put an end to the unilateral change and without compensation of working time either of public servants or of all Portuguese workers, restoring the national holidays that had been suspended. [[Congratulations from the PS and the Greens.]] And we did a lot more. We have fulfilled our commitments, from the municipalization of public transport in Lisbon and Porto to the reduction of VAT on restoration. the review of the judicial map to the creation of the Mission Unit for the Interior. We promised and fulfilled. Many may disagree with some of our measures, some may even disagree with all our measures, but what no one can say is that we have taken any measure contrary to what we have promised...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u3	Yes! Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u4	... or that any of these measures is not the implementation of the commitments we have made with the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We promised and fulfilled. And honouring commitments is, firstly, respecting citizens, secondly, credible political action and, thirdly and in particular, crucial to rebuilding Portuguese confidence and hope in their future and in the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese today know that they have a government that does what they said they were going to do and that is why they can trust you to do what you now say you are going to do. We don't ignore the difficulties. We did not need to get to the government to know the enormous challenges facing the country. What surprises us, in fact, is that it was necessary for the parties of the previous majority to turn to opposition to see the state in which they left our country. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We do not ignore or hide the difficulties — the high level of poverty, the high level of unemployment, the dependence of our companies on debt. The problems are not hidden, the problems are faced so that they can be revolted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As it was seen in the concealment of the problems of the financial system for the stagnation of the clean output, the problems, like the truth, always come to the top. Don't! Today, there are no new problems in the financial system. What is there again is the truth with which the problems that existed are now assumed to be finally faced. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We recognize that the problems exist and that is precisely why we are here to deal with them and to solve them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u6	Therefore, the second word that marks this balance sheet is: act. Take action. We need more investment to have more growth and better employment. So we recovered Simplex to reduce context costs and create an investment-friendly environment. We therefore remove limitations so that local authorities can invest. We therefore sought to stabilize the financial system and improve the financial autonomy of companies with the Capitalisation programme. Therefore, we have adopted measures that encourage investment in various sectors of the economy: the creation of the National Urban Rehabilitation Fund to promote urban rehabilitation and revive the construction sector; the Blue Fund to finance the investments of the sea economy; the national irrigation programme, which covers 90 000 ha throughout the country and which can lead to other hydrographic basins the success that the country has already achieved with the Alqueva project. Therefore, we launched the Startup Portugal programme, because the country needs a more diversified business fabric, more qualified employment and for this we also need new entrepreneurs. Take action. That's what we're doing in investment. And because we are well aware of the role that the Community funds represent as a source of funding for the investment of companies and administrations, we choose the acceleration of Community funds as one of our first priorities. In the area of accelerating the investment of companies, we launched Plan 100 in the early days of the government with the aim of paying EUR 100 million in the first 100 days of government to Portuguese companies. We have achieved this goal and have now paid more than 200 million euros to Portuguese companies. We have set a new ambition and we want to reach EUR 450 million by the end of this year, i.e. 45 % above what had been executed during the same period of the launch of the QREN. We have achieved this result by accelerating the functioning of incentive systems. Investors corresponded to a record search, presenting applications in April and May in the global value of EUR 3000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We thus give priority to unlocking the investments of administrations and businesses, in particular municipalities, with priority to municipal investment which is justified by the effects it has on local economies, small and medium-sized enterprises in their territories and in responding to the needs of the population. in this field, we launched the competitions of the Proximity Investment Development Plan with a global allocation of EUR 400 million and we have already approved a very relevant number of projects related to schools, health units and projects to upgrade the historical heritage. We also welcomed the strategic urban development plans which, together with urban rehabilitation plans oriented to smaller urban centres, allowed for the opening of new competitions with a total allocation of EUR 1000 million. These contracts will allow municipalities to submit applications for rehabilitation, urban mobility and social intervention in more disadvantaged communities. We know that it is not enough to contract and approve and therefore we want investments to be carried out as soon as possible. in this sense, we presented yesterday the initiative of the investment accelerator of Portugal 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u7	Well needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u8	This is an exceptional and temporary incentive mechanism to anticipate the investment for 2016 which is obtained by increasing the incentive rate or by allocating additional resources to those who anticipate 2016 or ensure the implementation this year of the projects planned for subsequent years. This is the role we want and we are taking: to act to create conditions for investment to take place. In the face of the problems, there are those who make predictions, as is their responsibility, there are those who associate themselves with the chorus of woes, and they do evil, there are those who try to deny reality, and it does worse, and there are, finally, those who are acting and taking the necessary steps to correct the predictions and confirm a result that is what we can aspire to. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The part we are dealing with is not that of the forecasts. Don't count on us to join the prides of misfortune, nor to imitate those who went before us, denying reality. We do what is our responsibility: we comply and act. That's what we need to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what also marks our budgetary implementation. As the European Commission itself acknowledges, the budget implementation is in line with what is planned. According to the National Institute of Statistics, the balance of public administrations in the first quarter of this year has decreased from 5 to 5 % to 3 % of GDP, with the budget deficit of the first quarter being the lowest since 2008. These data are already confirmed by the budget implementation by May and therefore strengthen our confidence that this is the direction that will lead us, already this year, to exit from the excessive deficit procedure, without plans b, without additional measures, but only by acting decisively and strictly in the implementation of the budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have done what we promise and we have done, as we must, to solve the problems we have inherited. But there is a third ambition that moves us: to realize a vision for our country. What we are looking for is, precisely, to build a country where Portuguese, everyone, can live better; a country that ensures better living conditions, where Portuguese always have a central place and where their interests correspond to the real priorities of the government; a country where young people see the right to live here, to have quality work, to have life projects, to be able to create and to see increase their family. The vision that we have is, therefore, medium and long-term and is implemented in our National Reform Programme, which has already been approved by the European Commission, a Programme that remains in six key pillars: that of the qualifications, of the universalization of preschool from three years to adult education and lifelong training; that of innovation, of the end of the precarious scientific employment to the Industry 4.0 Initiative; that of the modernization of the State, of the simplified return to the realization of decentralization; that of the enhancement of the territory, of the circular economy to energy efficiency; that of the capitalisation of companies, with the Capitalisation Programme, and in the sixth but not last place, of the eradication of poverty and reduction of inequalities, of the single provision of investment deficiency in the continuing care network. This is our commitment to the future that we have with the country and with the European Union. The European Commission, in its report on Portugal, stated that « the National Reform Programme shows sufficient ambition to address excessive imbalances, presents relevant measures to boost competitiveness and reduce private debt ». Only the implementation of this National Reform Programme can realize a medium-term vision, which breaks with a competitiveness strategy based on low wages and destruction of rights and invests, on the contrary, in a development model based on qualification, innovation and modernization. In addition, Members of Parliament and Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, let's promise and fulfill. We act to solve the problems we inherited and work to realize the vision we have for the country. Only by facing our structural blockades will we achieve more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause standing, and BE's colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the Question Time. As I mentioned recently, in the first round, questions and answers are given individually, with the reference period of 5 minutes. As there are global times, the Bureau will have flexibility in relation to these initial times of questions, appealing to the Members. Members may contain within reasonable limits. So, to ask questions, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, this is the first debate of the nation state of the new majority. I think it is right to begin by congratulating the Government and the Prime Minister for having had, until today, a majority which, essentially, has shown itself to be cohesive and operational, working, as I said and very well. It has been, according to Mr. Prime Minister, consistent. It's true, too. We will see what the consequences for the country of this coherence are. But the majority are essentially instruments. They are instrumental in pursuing certain policies. Mr. Prime Minister here sought to trace a reinterpretation of history as a starting point, turning the facts of the bird. Perhaps that is why it is important for this debate to begin by repositioning what is the starting point. In fact, it is very important for all Portuguese, that politicians know not only to look at the foam of the days, for every couple of months, but strategically, for the legislature and for the future. That is why it is important to know what our starting point is, where we came from, and what should be the main objectives to be achieved in the future. With regard to the point of departure, I believe that very briefly it can be said that the country has reached the beginning of this confident legislature of having closed one of the most difficult periods of economic, financial and social emergency, involving a pre-banking situation and inverting the main trends that have led the country to this situation, in particular by seeking to show, year after year, an external balance that is very based on an extraordinary growth in our exports and a moderation of imports, a consolidation accompanied by budgetary transparency. In fact, we were able to make a correction of the public accounts which, I think, is remarkable. We were able to recover economically the situation of the country, which was growing for the second consecutive year and, above all, growing in a healthy way, since, despite a dynamisation of consumption, it was showing investment levels and therefore job creation that were important for the recovery of accumulated imbalances. We also had a place for some recovery of savings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u11	Savings recovery? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u12	And a set of important structural reforms was launched so that the country could gain competitiveness and sustain growth for the future. Of course, the situation also involved significant imbalances and risks. We know that we had and still have too much unemployment, that we have significant public and private debt levels, and this leaves us - always less room for mistakes and, unfortunately, less margin than we need to invest in the future - which means, therefore, that in a medium and long-term view and looking at the country's macroeconomic situation, the main objectives should be reasonably unquestionable. The country should follow a path of indebtedness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u14	... taking advantage of the opportunities of monetary policy pursued by the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u15	The one you were against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u16	We should deepen structural reforms so as to have an even more open, more competitive economy, certainly based on knowledge, research, innovation, always aspects which, structurally, require more patience, to quote Mr Finance Minister, but which are essential if we really want to change something for the future. We needed to attract and boost investment and increase employment, strengthen savings, continue financial consolidation and consolidation of public finances. [[Rice from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] All this would enable us in a solid way to face fundamental challenges that could not have been adequately addressed in times of financial emergency, in particular the fight against economic and social inequalities, the reform of the social security welfare public system, which is in imbalance, and the reversal of a recessive birth. It was precisely for all these reasons that, at the time, having left the elections, with the best electoral outcome of each of the forces who presented the suffrage, I had the opportunity to invite Dr. António Costa and the Socialist Party to the Government of the Country. I knew, at that time, that it was important not to waste the opportunities we had for the future and to ensure, as far as possible, that we would face external risks, covering ourselves with a stable and coherent shield to pursue these objectives. What, however, has this majority, which has been coherent and stable, done? And what are the results that we can observe? Instead of focusing on long-term, strategic objectives, the Government and its majority have set themselves in the short term in this legislature and indeed in the rhetoric of the reversal of austerity. They also promised an economic growth model which was essentially dynamized by consumption and which would allow macroeconomic multipliers to grow economically based also on public investment that would generate a higher economy and more job creation. Today we look at the results and we know that the indebtedness did not happen — the latest data show a growing indebtedness of the State. The important structural reforms and for which such patience was needed to observe results, some have been reversed and, in relation to others, there are promises of reversal. The investment has dropped the peak...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u17	Dropped the peak? Oh, my God! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u18	...and the job or stagnates or destroys itself. We are exaggerating budgetary risks, we are spending, the delays in payments are increasing. Just in May...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u19	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u20	... in the area of health, they grew about 70 million euros. Growth is less vigorous than a year ago and, in general, savings have returned to the lowest levels of the usual, which means that the recovery of income resulting from the fight against the so-called austerity policies, and we had them - we really did not fully support the recovery of consumption, which has also been based on private indebtedness. Everything contrary to what was strategically important for the country. Mr President, you have arrived here, I believe the result is clear. contrary to what Mr. Prime Minister said, the country is going back and, if it is true that some risks that were foreseeable at the beginning of the legislature have materialized, they only reinforce the need of the government to have displayed a caution that did not appear when he chose to exacerbate the short-term risks so that he could just settle the accounts of the majority that the government supports.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u22	In conclusion, it is not worth being in an excuse, nor is it worth testing, once again, the rewriting of history. Mr. Prime Minister, those responsible for this majority will bear the burden of having wasted the historic opportunity that the country had to recover from a very difficult situation, that more than a decade of wrong policies would lead us to insolvency,... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] ... having broken conditions to forge sustainable growth and shot through the window what, at great cost, the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u23	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, this majority shot through the window what, at great cost and with sacrifices, the Portuguese did to show their brand of credibility and determination to win in the future. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, I hope that your majority, apart from cohesion, coherent and operational, will also prove to be stable and lasting. But being stable and lasting, which is only in your own hands, will not lead the country to a better situation if we continue to realize that we live in an election campaign. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u25	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u26	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I would like to thank you for your words and your wishes of success for this legislature. I want to tell you that you surprised me because you did not start by asking any questions about the position now announced by the European Commission on the assessment of Portugal's excessive deficit procedure. And it surprised me because after over the last few days having heard so many PSD leaders so concerned about whether what was at stake was the execution of 2016 or the execution of 2015, I see that it was not necessary more than it is reported to realize that the only thing involved was the execution by its government of the 2015 State Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And the surprise is a good sign for the country, it is a sign that, indeed, we are turning the page, that, despite the massive dose of austerity with intent to whip the Portuguese for four years, the result that you achieved was to fail the goal and that in 2016 we all agree that, for the first time, we will leave the excessive deficit procedure. It is good news for the country and we should congratulate it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] As Mr Pedro Passos Coelho knows, I was not a Member in the previous Parliament and therefore I will not do here, in the debate on the state of the Nation in 2016, the debate of the state of the Nation that Mr here repeated in relation to 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u27	But I wanted to rewrite it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u28	But I insist on reminding you of an old Portuguese song: the time doesn't go back and give up staying in 2015 because everyone is already in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr, would you like to believe that no one wants you to stay in 2015. We all look forward with anxiety that finally reaches the present time, 2016. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] Mr, I would also like to tell you that the evolution of the investment in 2015 was as follows: in terms of counterparts in the first quarter of 2015, the investment rose to 8 %, 6 %, then decreased to 5 %, 2 % in the second quarter, again to 2 % in the third quarter and finally to 1 % in the last quarter of 2015. The change in investment in the first quarter of this year is in fact less than in the first quarter of last year. But between the first trimester of last year and the first trimester of this year, there has been a huge sinking of investment, which happened in the change of the second to the third trimester of last year. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And that is why, in April this year and for the first time, for a year, we have had an inversion of the increase in investment. And that is why, Mr President, looking at the investment numbers shows that what is being downloaded is public investment, which is explained by the transition of Community funds,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u29	... but private investment rose in the first quarter, compared to last year, 13 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u30	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u31	... which means private investment is increasing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u32	I didn't mean private investment!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u33	Mr President, I know you did not mention why you are not in your priorities. It also did not mention unemployment, which is also falling. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u34	Unemployment isn't coming down!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u35	Yes, sir. In October... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u36	Mrs. Members, I believe that the speaker deserves the same consideration as the previous speaker had by the House. Please continue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u37	As I was saying, in October 2015 unemployment was 12, 4 % and is now 11, 6 %. But you must not have given due attention to my speech. We did not need to get to the government to know the state in which you left the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u38	That's funny.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u39	...we are in government precisely to deal with and to solve the problems that you have left for us. That's what we're going to do and we're gonna do it with great pride. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u40	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I want to make three comments and ask three questions. First question: for months the European Commission had been awaiting a decision on excessive deficit sanctions in Portugal. It was clear today that the European Commission referred to or lack of action in relation to the budgetary year of the PSD Government and the PP in 2014 and 2015. As you know, we stayed above 3 % in 2015...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u42	We're not staying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u43	... and the structural balance worsened rather than the improvement the European Commission was fighting. Another thing, in fact, would be strange, to be punished now not for what has been done, but for what one day we could do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u45	This was the absurd mistification of those now qualified by the European Commission as offenders, the PSD and the PP. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u46	Don't you realize that what's at stake is Portugal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u47	You don't even know what that is! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u48	I resist the blush, although it's hard to live with it, but... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Even so, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS and the Government have done everything and will continue to do to counter any harmful sanctioning process and work to ensure that the 2016 budget year and then 2017 are crowned with success, as the European Commission itself estimates. However, Prime Minister, the most regrettable in this process is not the potential insensitivity of European institutions, but rather the lack of sense of national interest...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u50	... that the PSD, in particular, and the right, in general, have revealed. It is that while the Socialist Party and the current government have committed themselves to defending the 2015 budget implementation, the PSD and its leader have paid back in an effort to deny all time the 2016 budget implementation and affect the credibility of the state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in order to frame the government they don't mind disturbing their own country. So you see the point where the current PSD arrived, the zero point of pride of being Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches and feet on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u51	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you to spare the furniture, which is our heritage. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Carlos César, please take a moment to pause for Mr. Ladies and gentlemen can be more serene.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u52	Apparently, that's what I'm doing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u53	Mr. Deputies, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. The second question is: with only four months of fiscal year, the right only holds sways, misfortunes, non-compliances and failures in the current government's forecasts. Where shame comes from, never again. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u55	They were not ashamed to fail to keep their word while they ruled, nor were they now ashamed to criticize those who seek to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, they promised us a deficit and left us on the verge of sanctions. They promised to grow and left us at levels of decades ago. [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] They promised us debt stability and left us 30 points above. In the second half of last year, the country, in growth and investment, moved back and forth. And that way... After hearing Mr Passos Coelho and, a few days ago, the already famous exercise of immodesty by Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, do not hurt me, as it is usually said, Mr Passos Coelho, but I would recommend to them the wisdom of an old Indian proverb: «When you speak, take care that your words are better than silence». In Azorian: “It was better for them to be silent”! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in spite of all internal and external uncertainties and difficulties which constitute a recognized negative framework of our government action, the truth is that Portuguese consumers and entrepreneurs are today more optimistic in view of their prospects than they have been six months ago. [[CDS-PP protests.]] There is no indicator of INE confidence that is worse than six months ago: in the processing industry, in construction and public works, in trade, in services or in the economic climate. The government deficit has improved, the budgetary implementation of social security has improved, the unemployment rate is the lowest in the last six years and even in traditionally erratic sectors such as justice, for example, confidence bonds have been restored that allow good management in the sector today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore necessary that you and Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, a stronger commitment to what must be the centrality of the close government action, the appeal, capitalisation, the financing of our companies, and the facilitation of internal and external investment, which is the great design that the Government must take.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u56	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no longer much time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u57	We are not a party of reversals, we are a party of convictions and because these convictions are different from those on the right we cannot compromise with what has been undertaken so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One thing is certain: changing policy to redefine PSD and CDS-PP policy is that it is not. This policy has brought us so far the economic and social backwardness and the danger of being punished by the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third and last question, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : we do not want the Portuguese to be afraid of their present and fear of their future. Mr. Prime Minister, we must therefore act, as I said, in view of the heavy inheritance left by the PSD and the CDS, involving the financial sector and the banks, one after another. Adjournment was always what they did, closed their own eyes and the eyes of others, to pass unnoticed in election times. The PSD and the CDS-PP, yes, ruled as if they were in election campaign,... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u58	I would ask you to try to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u59	... delayed intervention in the BES after the troika came out; delayed the decision to sell the New Bank, despite having bids ; delayed the decision to restructure the BANIF ; postponed the decision to recapitalize the General Deposit Box, questioning a public bank that now has to save this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, defer, defer, defer, defer two, three and four years and the country is always losing! Mr Prime Minister, how could the public interest be defended in the last four years better, if everything was postponed until the eve of the collapse, how does it happen to the banks, with the greatest of the irresponsibility? What government was that? And now, Prime Minister, what government do we have to be? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PSD and CDS-PP Members, beating hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u60	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u61	Mr President, Mr César, the last few days have indeed been sad days, because corresponding to the appeal of the President of the Republic, corresponding to the appeal of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, an important national consensus has been formed on a fundamental point : Portugal does not deserve to be punished by the European Union. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] This consensus allowed the approval in this Chamber of two resolutions, one of the Left Block, voted by PS and the PCP, another by the PSD and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u62	And for the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u63	... — and by the PS — which converged on a fundamental point: Portugal does not deserve sanctions. With this attitude we have all expressed in this Assembly of the Republic, in the link between the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, between the Government and the President of the Republic, a front of national unity in our debate with the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u64	The government has to do something else, not just this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u65	It is absolutely regrettable that in recent days the PPD / PSD Directorate has not resisted the temptation of the party pettyness to attempt to attack the 2016 execution to cover the failure of the 2015 execution. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u66	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u67	There is one thing, Mr. Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to assure you here: the 21st Government is the Government of Portugal and it will be, in all instances, for the national interest, without any distinction of what our past is, that it must defend, because it will always be the past of our homeland and that is the past of all of us and that it is always up to us to defend. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member will have recorded how they were demanding me to disclose the letter I wrote to the President of the Council and to the President of the European Commission and they were fleeing for the social communication, saying: "He, in the letter, is not defending the former Government."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u68	And he didn't defend! He found himself!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u69	Or else: « He, in the letter, is taking additional measures that he does not take before the country ». Now, today, the letter is public and, as you can see, it's a letter from a Prime Minister... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u70	Wasn't the letter yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u71	It is a letter from a Prime Minister who does not stop knocking on the country, even when the country has been ruled by another Prime Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nor is it the letter signed by a Prime Minister who takes the measures which he does not have the courage to present in Brussels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are two big differences: to me, no one will ever hear me go to the Council saying ill of the previous government,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u72	You insinuated more than you should!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u73	... but also no one will ever see me in Brussels promising the cuts of pensions that I say in Portugal I will not do or say that the cut in the salaries of civil servants is final, when in Portugal I am saying it is provisional. No, I don't have two faces, I don't have two words, I say the same here I say. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Carlos César, this is a government that does not hide or disguise the problems that exist in the country. We will not be surprised at anyone and what we will do in the face of each problem is to face it and take it. If there is a high level of unemployment, we must have measures, employment policies that combat unemployment. If we have a high level of poverty, we need to have a national plan to combat child poverty, because we have to eradicate it. If we lack investment, we must take measures to ensure that both the authorities, the state and, above all, the private sector have better conditions for investment, because there is only investment that there is the creation of wealth and employment. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] No, we don't run from problems, we act in the face of problems, because a government exists to act and it is acting that governs itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u74	I now give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u75	Mr President, Prime Minister, the decision of the European Commission to initiate the sanctions proceedings against Portugal and Spain is an unprecedented and most serious decision, also because it is unpublished. The European Commission ignores non-compliance countries for years and years. Twenty-four of the 28 countries have failed or failed to comply with the rules and the European Commission decides to open the case against Portugal and Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u76	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u77	But in all these years, with these rules, there has been only one fulfilling country, Luxembourg, and it is fulfilling because it is a offshore, i.e. it meets at the cost of tax revenues that it takes to other countries. The European Commission is doing nothing about this and is now initiating a procedure for sanctions against Portugal and Spain. « France is France », says the President of the European Commission and cannot have sanctions. So Portugal isn't Portugal? The duality of criteria says everything about this process initiated by the European Commission. It's an attack on our country. I do well with my words: it's an attack. That they have decided to announce this attack at the same time that the debate of the nation's state was beginning in this Parliament is just another characteristic of the kind of humiliation that they want to inflict on our country and that we cannot accept. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The priority must be to prevent this process. We can't have sanctions. Do not tell us that sanctions may be only symbolic or that they may be small. Sanctions are sanctions. Sanctions attack the country's reputation and thus the financing of the Republic and the whole economy. Sanctions are a humiliation to our country, sanctions are an attack on our democratic sovereignty. We can't accept them. I know, Prime Minister, that sanctions do not concern what the current government has done, but rather the previous government, but are therefore not a minor attack on our country. What is at stake is the failure to comply with the deficit rules in 2015, the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS, which have affected all kinds of cuts in wages, pensions, schools and health; all sacrifices to the country in the name of meeting goals that have not been met. Yes, PSD and CDS affected the country very badly. Yes, PSD, CDS and its policies deserve sanctions. Yes, your accounts never hit right, but that's why you've been punished. They have been punished by whom they can do so, by the majority will of the Portuguese in the elections. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In democracy this is how it is; whoever sanctions the people, they are not non-elected bureaucrats, nor are they foreign governments. Furthermore, PSD and CDS have always been presented by European institutions as the « good students ». Have they done everything that Brussels and Berlin have sent and now those who imposed policies have sanctioned the country for the misery that this policy has brought to the country? Brussels and Berlin have imposed this policy, they have lived well with their devastating results on the economy, while the government has been the obedient and destructive government of our country's dignity. And when the people, by their vote, decide to change their government, is Brussels sanctioning the disaster she herself caused? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, the whole logic of sanctions is absurd. When a country has difficulties and does not meet the limits of the deficit, is this country further penalized, creating added difficulties and thus making the goal of consolidating public accounts increasingly difficult? Oh, my God! It's absurd! On the other hand, if a country like Germany does not comply with the rules because it is having a larger portion than it is due in trade relations between countries and has larger trade surpluses than those permitted by European rules, nothing happens. There are no sanctions mechanisms planned. It's absurd! An absurd that penalises the most fragile economies. Because it is absurd and because it is an attack on democracy it is that the Left Block has always been against the legal basis that allows the application of these sanctions and the budgetary treaty that condensates them. It is unfortunate that PS, with PSD and CDS have approved in the European Parliament and in this House the rules now allowing the process of sanctions against our country. Furthermore, sanctions have become automatic by regulation. They were already programmed with the troika, but they became automatic. And, ironically unfortunate of our country, the rapporteur of this proposal was not a German Member, it was a Portuguese Member of the CDS. Mr. Prime Minister, we were very pleased that whoever made this journey had already regretted it. But the right, by the voice of Maria Luís Albuquerque, Pedro Passos Coelho or Assumption Cristos, is enjoying seeing the country under attack. They are saying that they are against sanctions, but do not miss an opportunity to realise that the problem is the accounts of this government and not those of the previous government. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Maria Luís Albuquerque thinks that if she was a minister, she could continue to go wrong and she would never be punished. Steps Coelho and Assumption Christians are saying, at the same time, that they are against sanctions and that the current government deserves sanctions. That today, of all days, Steps Rabbit is here saying that it was in the right direction, it is a take-off of reality that causes the greatest stupefaction, or, then, it is a last attempt to mistify what is going on. I can be wrong, I hope I'm wrong, [[He is!]] [[He is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u78	...but the idea is that, in this championship, the right is twisting Germany from the first minute. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]] [[What a shame!]] [[What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u79	When it took clarity to defend Portugal, they prefer to be part of this attack. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u80	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are regiment forms — one of them being the other — of expressing views, even outraged. And there's ways that get out of the rules. I'm asking your attention to that. Please continue, Your Honor. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u81	What a shame! This President is as PS Commissioner, he is not as President!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, we have had our differences, which we have never hidden on the financial system, on debt restructuring, on many matters and certainly on Europe. But I tell you, today and here, that the Left Block does not hesitate and that it counts with us to defend Portugal from this attack.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u83	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u84	I will finish, Mr. President. Our priority is to prevent sanctions by all means possible and to maintain our common agreement for the recovery of labour income in Portugal. Nothing will divert us from that path. So I leave you with two very clear questions: firstly, has the government committed itself, in the letter or by some other means, to some kind of austerity measure before the European institutions? Secondly, what is the government doing to stop the sanctions process? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u85	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u86	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I believe that we agree and the surprise is the whole of this House not always agree on this fundamental point: when Portugal is at issue we can only twist by Portugal. Portugal is the only thing we can twist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I was never worried about what the government was in question, if the previous one, if any other. What I always cared about was whether there was justification or not for the application of sanctions to Portugal. Now there is no justification for the application of sanctions to Portugal and we must be beaten on all fronts against the application of sanctions to Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have to fight in the European Parliament, we have to fight in the Council, we have to fight in the Commission, we have to fight in the diplomatic front, political front and through social communication. We have to fight this idea. And it was very sad to see, from Saturday until today, how, by mere pettyness, this national consensus was broken around the fundamental principle « there is no place for sanctions to Portugal ». [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Today, there was an important moment: the Commission communication found failure to comply, but it did not propose any kind of sanctions. And that was not necessarily the case, because we all heard many PPE leaders, some Germans and other non-Germans, claiming that the Commission should now propose sanctions. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And an important first victory of Portuguese diplomacy was to ensure that today's Commission communication was limited to finding a fact without proposing any kind of consequence. The application of sanctions is not automatic, even with the budgetary treaty. It is true that in the Treaty of Lisbon, only a minority of blockades were enough to prevent the adoption of sanctions. And it is true that, with the budgetary treaty, the rule has been reversed and now it is necessary to constitute a majority of the embargo in order to prevent these sanctions. There are discussions between jurists to know what is applicable in this case: if the Treaty of Lisbon, if the budget treaty. Our thesis, of course, is that of which the Treaty of Lisbon applies. But in any case, we are working to ensure that no sanctions are applied in the Council as in the Commission. As I always say, in European matters, when we negotiate on 28, no one can guarantee in advance what the outcome will be. But there is one thing we can always guarantee: it is where we leave and what we want. And on that, I have no doubt as much: we are based on the principle that Portugal does not deserve sanctions, that there should be no sanctions. And the objective we have is very clear: there is no application of any sanctions to Portugal. And it is not because it has become clear today that what is at stake is not the assessment of the implementation of 2016 — which is invoked, for example, with regard to Spain — that I will no longer continue to commit, as Mr Finance Minister, as Mr Foreign Minister and as our permanent representation, all the resources available to us to ensure that there will be no place for the application of sanctions. And I am sure that this is the majority will of the Assembly of the Republic, I am sure that this is the determination of the President of the Republic, and I am sure that, if we all act together, we will be in a better position to ensure that Portugal is not punished. It is that if there is anyone who does not deserve to be punished, it is the Portuguese people, after all that has suffered, for four years, with the implementation of the policy that has given these results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In reply to the other question put by Mrs Catarina Martins, I should like to say that Portugal has not taken any commitment, nor in the letter addressed to the President of the Commission and the President of the Council, nor by any other means, through Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, our Ambassador, or anyone else, for adoption of any additional measure or plan b. First of all, because it would make no sense since the 2016 budget implementation does not justify the adoption of any additional measure, nor of any plan b, is running well, is running on line and therefore no justification for the adoption of any additional measure. Secondly, because there is no adopted measure in 2016, which corrects the deficit we had in 2015. Therefore, this is not the defense of Portugal. The defense of Portugal is to say that it is not fair to state that there was no effective action to reduce the deficit and therefore the application of any kind of sanction is unfair. Now, we don't make any commitments. And even I say more: we will not accept any commitment to adopting additional measures or any plan b. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u87	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u88	Mr President, Prime Minister, I must say that today I believe the state of the nation is happy, it is generally happy. But this happiness, of which I share, has nothing to do with its policy, has simply to do with the enormous joy that the National Selection gave us yesterday. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u89	That was in the beam!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u90	Having said this, the good news was over, as far as the nation's state is concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u92	And let me just address this point of sanctions, because I actually have a lot to point out. at this point in the sanctions, I would like to say to you, Mr Prime Minister, that, as I suspected, the government did not defend the interests of the country by accepting acritically—and I say acritically, because neither Mr Prime Minister nor Mr Finance Minister had the honesty to explain it in this House and therefore accepted - in acritically - that the Commission would fix the 2015 deficit at 3, 2 %. In our perspective, this does not correspond to reality, does not correspond to your duty and does not correspond to what they should have done to safeguard the interests of the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u93	Moreover, I would say that this is in line with what was in its electoral programme, where it was said that the 2015 deficit was 3,2 %. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Furthermore, at that time the European Commission also planned 3, 2 % for the 2015 deficit. Therefore, you accepted this value simply and acritically, it would work. And I wanted to tell you something else: that defending another value would give a lot of work, a lot of technical work and a lot of political work. And above all, it was a lot of work to have a sense of state and to understand that it was more worth defending than wanting to create an burden for the previous government, as in fact did the other benches, which spent time talking only about it, and so that would give you much more than being defending the interest of Portugal. Now, what I wanted to say to you, Prime Minister, is this: you brought here the word « act». That is what you have not done in this regard. You and your government do not « move a straw » to defend the 2015 deficit. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let me tell you something else: the decision will not be from the Commission ; the decision will be from the Council. So in Ecofin, where there is a majority of socialist governments, I hope that you will understand your political friendships and that you will also defend the interests of Portugal there. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As for what concerns us, about the state of the nation, I wanted to tell you that I will not discuss the past, nor the elections last year. About these, the Portuguese made their judgment, and you and I know very well how the Socialist Party was judged. I am interested in discussing the present and I am interested in discussing the future with a critical and constructive spirit, which is what the CDS has always had, seeking dialogue and consensus, things that you do not want and in which you are not at least interested.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u94	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u95	And that goes by looking, not for opinions, not for sensibilities, for results and for reality. As for this, Mr. Prime Minister, I think I have to help see reality, because the state of the country and the state of its governance is not measured by smiles, does not measure by having the Left Block and the PCP very satisfied, it measures for the lives of people and growth indicators. On this subject, I wanted to tell you that in order to achieve good results, we must work very hard and we must not confuse optimism with illusionism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u97	It is necessary to look into reality, to know it and to recognize it then to be able to act on it, because otherwise it is to be deceiving all Portuguese. The reality is this. Mr Prime Minister, he has brought aid, in the form of posters, so that everyone can see very well what our reality is: in the first you can see that the employed population has fallen to 17 000 people and unemployment does not fall significantly; in the second you can see that investment in the first quarter has decreased to 2, 6 % in chains and has decreased to 1 % when compared to the same period; in the third you can see that public investment, which both you claim, has decreased to 28 % in the first quarter. [[PS protests.]] In the fourth poster, it can be seen that foreign investment in our country has significantly decreased - EUR 800 million, and I can tell you that at the moment, figures show that there was only EUR 192 million of foreign direct investment in the first quarter of our country; in the fifth you can see - that exports were growing 4 % and then going to 2, 2 %, so there was a significant reduction in the first quarter; in the sixth you can see - that the consumer confidence indicator - and Mr. Prime Minister very much likes a model based exclusively on domestic consumption but it is not enough - is falling, although it is true, and above all, it is not stable and rising consistently. [[Look at that! It's obvious! He's been down for six months!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u98	In the seventh poster you can see the austerity on the left, where there is an increase in taxes, the collection of tax revenue increased by 3 %, and this is at the expense, in particular, of the fuel tax. So it's austerity on the left. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Adding to this what do we have, Prime Minister? Together with this, we still have the late payments, which they add. Non-financial debt, which is growing significantly, is all hidden under the carpet, and we still have VAT refunds, which are not happening in the time that should be happening,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u99	In your time it was like that with VAT!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u100	... and now we have recently the reimbursements of the IRS. And see, Mr. Prime Minister, that we already have reports on pensions that have not been paid this Monday and are being protected for another moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u101	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u102	Do you know what this smells like, Prime Minister? It smells like masking accounts, something about which socialists are very skilled. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, what I said are not estimates, they are not projections, they are actual data, it is the reality that fears not to see. When we look at growth and see that it doesn't happen, you have made a test to say that the problem is international, but, Prime Minister, look at Ireland and Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u103	Last year they grew more than twice as many of us!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u104	What is the international situation in these countries like? Isn't that the same as ours? Oh, my God! Isn't it like ours? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u105	What happened in Spain? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u106	Mr. Prime Minister can say that people are better, you can say that they even have a little more income and there was even the 35 hour replacement, but this is a very short-term vision. Your government looks at the short term, but what's important for people is to be able to plan their lives, is to know that tomorrow they won't pay for today's discards and discards,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u108	... is knowing, in fact, that you can plan your life, you know that you won't be spending more on gas and gasoline, you know you're going to receive the refund from the IRS—and if he's more late than expected it is because you have removed the family quotient, which was working — and you have to be guaranteed that you won't pay for this governance in the future. Mr. Prime Minister, let me make it very clear that for the CDS, people are at the heart of our policies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u109	Here we brought birth, active aging, the protection of the elderly, the reform of the pension system — all plunged by the united left and well united!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u110	All right! [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u111	I can tell you, Prime Minister, that we have also brought education and health, but what I see, however, is that you only care about people in the short term, to give them some relief feeling, which they will actually pay later. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister — and finally — I hear you say every week that this is going very well and that the country is fine and strong. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, he promised I take it, but it's not being created; he promised trust and investment, but it's falling; he promised to hold the accounts, but payments late increase and debts grow. In a socialist way, they hide under the carpet. In addition, taxes increase in austerity on the left and people hope that their IRS will be returned, companies expect VAT to be refunded and now pensioners have pensions in arrears.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u113	at this moment, after all this I have told you and I would like you to answer, there is an additional question I would like to ask you: do you still believe that your short-term choices are the right way, the path that gives the Portuguese more prosperous and more peaceful, the path that gives security to parents who want to have children, the elderly who seek stability for themselves and their own, the young people who seek the first job, the long-term unemployed? I also wonder if that is the way that attracts the investments that we need so much to create jobs, whether they are national or foreign investments. Do you still think that their choices are responsible choices, taking into account all the data I mentioned earlier and that they are not virtual or estimative data, are real data, is the reality that you have to recognise? I ask you, Prime Minister, if you accept, with some humility that may be worth stopping, reflecting and correcting something. You know what, Prime Minister? It is that your optimism, however you wish, does not change reality and your illusion will not take us anywhere. And what people say out there and that we feel in here is that this isn't okay! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u114	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u115	Mr President, Mrs Assunção Cristas, it has never occurred to me for a second that we did not share a joy for a victory in Portugal, because I have no doubt that Mrs Assunção Cristas is a patriot, as we all are. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto is a doctor, so she cannot exercise her lawyer to defend the PPD / PSD. You don't have skills. But they don't need it either, let it go! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Cristas, the national deficits are addressed by Eurostat. Who establishes dialogue with Eurostat is the national statistical authority, which is the National Statistical Institute. I assume that the honourable Member does not question the technical probity, the competence of the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ). If you question it, we have a problem here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u116	The INE, by the way, had other values!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u117	I do not question and therefore I do not even think that the National Institute of Statistics did not produce the best information and did not proceed with Eurostat to make the most correct assessment of this information, and the numbers are the numbers. But there's one thing that's right, Mrs. Member: if these numbers were wrong, the best numbers will not be, because the source is exactly the same. So, what the honourable Member can't expect...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u118	You're not ready for that job! You don't know how things work!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u119	Would you excuse me from continuing to answer? I promise I won't take you too long. Let me just try to answer your questions. It is not for the Government to discuss with Eurostat. The data is the data. What you have to understand — and as a lawyer you have an obligation to understand better than anyone else — is that we need to build our defense on the basis of Article 126. that of the Treaty, and this article does not under any circumstances result in the automatic application of sanctions. And the defence we have to make — that is the point where we have to hit — is that in no case is justified and deserved the application of sanctions to Portugal. This is the consensus with which the honourable Member should not withdraw,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u120	And I'm not far away! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u121	... because that is the battle we are still fighting and we will have to continue to block before the Council and before all Community bodies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy is doing the statistics cherry-picking. There is a fundamental difference between the way Mr. Deputy looks at the statistics and the way I look at the statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u122	The difference is that we are opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u123	The honourable Member looks at the statistics and looks for a good number to attack the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u124	Deceive yourself! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u125	...and I look at the statistics and look for a bad number that demands the action of the government so that the number can improve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When Mrs. Deputy celebrates a bad level of investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u126	I don't celebrate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u127	... I see the need to adopt the Capitalize programme, so that companies have better financial conditions to be able to invest; I see that I have to launch the Startup Portugal programme, to encourage entrepreneurship; I see the need to create the Blue Fund, to have investments in the economy of the sea; I see the need to create the urban rehabilitation fund to revive the construction sector; I see the need to remove from the limits of indebtedness of the chambers the national sharing for Community investment, to increase the investment of the chambers; and I see above all the need to accelerate Community funds as essential in order to increase investment. Do you see the difference, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u128	The difference is that the CDS is opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u129	No, Mr. Member! The difference is that you celebrate the bad numbers and I, in the face of the bad numbers, garlic to correct them, with good policies and to have good results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u130	You have the word...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u131	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u132	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u133	Mr President, I ask you to allow me to add something to my reply to Mrs Cristian Assumption. Of course, it is bad information from the honourable Member on the issue of postponement of reimbursements. As for the IRS, until May, we reimbursed more 23, 2 million euros than last year...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u134	Because there was more!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u135	...and also in May, in VAT, we returned more EUR 227 million than last year. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, Mrs. Member, there are two small data important to your equation. By going so bad on the economy, how does the tax revenue go up so much?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u136	On account of the increase in taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u137	And how is it that we, having increased reimbursements, are delaying reimbursements to cover up the accounts? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u138	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u139	Mr President, Prime Minister : Debating the state of the nation presupposes the analysis of the concrete reality, knowing where we are and where we are going, but it is not acceptable for this strategy of the PSD and CDS to try to put the counter-kilometres to zero from October last year. When we hear Mr Passos Coelho, we could say that they not only want to put the counter-kilometres at zero but also put the change back. Yes, it is true: we do not give up the causes and causes of the current state of the situation in the last four years but, yes, in decades of policy on the right of successive governments. But try to erase from our collective memory what has meant the application of the attack pact and particularly its implacable execution by the PSD/CDS government, by uprooting rights, income and public services, tearing lives to the people who have lost their jobs, their homes, their small business, their small family exploitation, throwing into poverty hundreds of thousands of Portuguese and so many others for emigration, while the financial system sank into a plot of speculation and scandals to be paid by the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]] In the name of what? In the name of the deficit, in the name of the debt, which, after all, has not been resolved, on the contrary, has worsened. They came to the point of affirming and theorizing that the Portuguese people were living above their possibilities. In fact, I remember Dr. Passos Coelho's playful expression that at the time he said he considered the protest as a lameachic and the struggle as a useless act.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u140	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u141	After all, it was the protest and the struggle that, coupled with the vote, would lead to defeat. [[PCP applause.]] In view of the new set-up of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, the new political situation found and the response to some of the most urgent problems, restating rights and incomes, halting the robbery of privatisations, the PSD hands over everything, including the means and arguments that turn against itself, for its direct responsibilities in existing problems. The example of the threat of unacceptable sanctions on Portugal by the decision-making circles of the European Union and the PSD's little cry to say that it regrets but at the same time justifies, trying to blame the current government, ends up trying to blame the country and the Portuguese, giving strength to blackmail and the threat of the European Union. The European Commission recently stated that the budgetary effort between 2013 and 2015 fell short of the recommendation. We could point out that what matters here is the ingratitude—unthankful for all that the PSD and the CDS have done in their government. But the most relevant issue is the nature and objectives of this European Union, which insists on the exploitation and impoverishment of peoples. They are now discussing the new deadlines for the country to remain subject to the permanent, permanent threat to the issue of sanctions. We must fight and reject clearly, with determination, not with verbalism, but with courage, with much courage in defense of national interest and our sovereignty. [[Congratulations from the PCP and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] Mr Prime Minister, although aware of the complexity of the situation, should we or should we not go along the path set in this new phase of national life? If faced with the external constraints that suffocate us, subject us and tie us, should we or should we not affirm our sovereignty and the will to free ourselves from these constraints? That is what we will be committed to in this Assembly of the Republic and in the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u142	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u143	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, thank you very much for your questions. We do not have the same view of our European integration process. I consider it important to participate in European integration; even with all the difficulties that this entails, I believe that outside the European Union we would have more and more difficulties than within the European Union. But there are ways and means of being in the European Union. And we have to be in the European Union by beating ourselves completely, with loyalty, with frontality in defending our interests. And that's possible. It can't always be done, but I refuse to accept that it can't be done. Even this process of sanctions has been very difficult, because we have often found mines and traps where they were less legitimate they come from, but the truth is we have managed to run this process in the least damaging way possible for the country. I do not know whether this will be possible until the last Council deliberations, but I know that, despite everything, the Commission has not taken the initiative today to propose the application of any sanctions is already an important fact that I do not devalue, on the contrary, consider the most relevant. I hope that it will also be possible for the Council to move forward in this direction, and that we must continue to work in order to defend the national interest and our collective interests within the framework of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u144	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I think it is inevitable in this debate on the state of the nation to try to translate here in words the path we have gone and at the same time try to understand which path would be going if the PSD and the CDS were in government. I think there are ways of positioning the different parties that are so clear that it is easy, in some matters, to understand how we are and how we would be. But in any case, there is something that I think is essential to say first: when politics is turned to serve people it is never a regression that we are talking about, but always an advance. This is a mark that cannot be overlooked by the joint positions signed between three parliamentary parties and the Socialist Party, which is the one that forms government. Mr. Prime Minister, if we think about the path we have taken towards the return of income, pensions, wages, overtaxing of the IRS and if we think that all this was denied by the PSD and the CDS, we realize how we served people. If we think about how we allow one more step in the fight against poverty when we intercede on certain social support and subsidies, such as the solidarity supplement for the elderly, such as the family allowance, when those gentlemen of the PSD and the CDS did, permanently, to cut off these social subsidies, promoting greater poverty in the country, then we realize the way we are doing in favour of people. When we return VAT on restoration and allow 35 hours in public service — we want more, Prime Minister, but it was an important step — when we reject holidays, when we determine the freeness of school textbooks for 1. the year of 1. the cycle of basic education, all this are important and relevant issues for the concrete life of people, as well as the end of the exams and a new look at the perspective of the education and comprehensive education of our students and the law of social lease that will soon be voted here in the Assembly of the Republic and that those gentlemen of the PSD and the CDS did not want. When we think of the reversal of the surrender to the private transports of Lisbon and Porto, the guarantee that the General Deposit Box will be a public bank, the reduction in moderate rates, the adoption by homosexual couples, the change in the ridiculous abortion law that those PSD and CDS had done and that we will revert, to the guarantee of non- privatization of water, which will also be voted here in the Assembly of the Republic, in the re-evaluation of the National Barrages Programme, in more ways for the conservation of nature and for the control of our water resources, all of these are issues which the PSD and CDS had permanently denied. All this listing, and much more here I could say, Prime Minister, are concrete issues of people's lives. And when politics turns to people's concrete lives and leaves numbers by numbers, we're actually on the right track. As such, perhaps the first question must be asked whether there are any conditions for us to continue in this logic of looking at people as the first plan of politics. If, yes, Mr. Prime Minister can count on the Greens Ecological Party. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, we would also like to leave a word here on the subject of sanctions. This blackmail, this pressure that the Portuguese are experiencing today on this threat of blackmail by the European Commission, is evidence of Europe that we have and it seems that Europe never learns. It seems that when you have the opportunity to show that your policy is not against the peoples, it does not and seems to prefer to continue to slaughter the peoples. And all of us here, in fact, have an obligation to say no! We do not accept sanctions against Portugal. Mr Prime Minister, even with regard to what might or might not be different — and I have recorded his words that there is no plan b nor any package of austerity in the sleeve — I would say that when I heard those statements by the former Minister of Finance, Maria Luís Albuquerque, saying, even with great prepotence, that if I were Minister of Finance in the current government there would be no sanctions against Portugal, you know what reading I immediately made of this issue? Knowing the Minister, in any event, that these sanctions relate to the 2015 accounts, what she meant to say to the Portuguese was this: "I was immediately drawing out an austerity package to see the Commission shut up". It would be in this that we were in case of PSD and CDS being government again. We did not have the list of the rights I have here mentioned and we had a new and brutal austerity package in front of the Portuguese. That is why, Prime Minister, we say with great relief: although the PSD and CDS are no longer government. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u146	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I heard you, I remembered one of the most unhappy sentences of the previous majority, when I said one year ago: the Portuguese are worse, but the country is better. I think the synthesis that we can make these seven months is that, today, the Portuguese are better and, being the Portuguese better, the country is much better. That's the reality of these seven months. [[P.S. and Mr. Heloísa Apollonia from The Greens.]] And what is our duty is to continue to do and to act to do what we have done, step by step, continuing to improve the day-to-day of the Portuguese, because, if we succeed, we will be improving the life and future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u148	For a request for clarification, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the current state of the Nation is myopic. More than winning political debates we need to find common points to defend the national and European interests, and the state of the nation is also the state of the citizens and territories. Mr. Prime Minister, the communities inserted into the low-density territories debate with various constraints, particularly with the phenomenon of depopulation, and are especially vulnerable to the impact of possible unjust sanctions, the hypothesis of which is increasingly real. If there is a temporary suspension of the European Structural Funds, what will be the consequences for the thousands of citizens involved in projects in the areas of organic farming, biodiversity, environment and energy within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, PDR 2020? Mr. Prime Minister, what do you have to say to these people?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u150	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u151	Mr President, Mr André Silva, thank you very much for your questions, although you have to answer very briefly because of time. The valuing of the territory means valuing all its diversity: the sea, the Atlantic façade and what we have been used to—and bad—to treat internally. The new vision of the border area, with a large platform of affirmation in the Iberian market and in the European market, stimulates a new territorial management strategy and inspires the mission unit that we have created for the enhancement of the interior. It is this vision that we have to have, because it is economically valuing the interior with new functions, new jobs and new population that we will restore it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u152	Before we move on to the second round of speeches, Secretary Pedro Alves will do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u153	Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 421 / XII ( 1. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to France ( PAR ) and 418 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2015 ( Commission on European Affairs ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u154	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the second round of questions, so you have the floor of Mr Pedro Passos Coelho from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u155	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, when you answered my question recently, you said that you were very surprised that I had not dealt with the problem of sanctions in Portugal. Mr Prime Minister, in any case, did not address him in his speech and I do not know why he should be surprised that my question does not address this issue. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, who did not even touch the subject in his initial speech, nevertheless asks me, inverting the situation a little bit, saying: « you do not leave 2015 ». But Mr. Prime Minister doesn't want to discuss anything but 2015, perhaps because he wasn't here at the time. I was in a more remote position looking for a better chance. [[PSD applause.]] Here she is! Here's this good chance! Mr Prime Minister, I have repeatedly expressed my misunderstanding with a decision to impose sanctions on Portugal, not on the Government, but on Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u156	In the meantime, he turned his kiss to the nail!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u157	And he said supporting it by two things: firstly, if we are evaluating the effort that was made by the country until 2015 there is no justification for sanctions to be applied to Portugal. Our 2015 deficit, which is the one for excessive deficit procedure purposes, was 4, 4 %. It is known that in government matters this deficit is shared by two governments, but in good rigour it is not important to be here now to draw this difference, although I am very willing to respond for my own. What is important to say is that what exceeds the nominal deficit by 3 % is due to the BANIF effect. That's the point. We had 4, 4 %; if we discount the Banif effect we will have 3 %; if we discount a consolidation operation in the financial sector within the General Deposit Box Group, with Wolfpart, we have 2, 8 %. In fact, 2, 8 % was the value of the nominal deficit that Eurostat reported in 2015, excluding the impact measures in the financial sector. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I repeat: 2, 8 %. Secondly, if it is true that these measures on the financial sector, however, count for excessive deficit procedure, in accordance with the Commission's own guidance, defined even during the time of Vice-President Olli Rehn, no worsening of measures can be taken against a country that is in this procedure if this difference arises from the need to ensure financial stability, with a condition: that the effect of the structural effort is effective. But the structural effort was effective...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u158	The Commission says no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u159	... and the Government has an obligation to know that the reason why the structural deficit worsened in 2015 is not due to any measure of macroeconomic policy, it is due to a revision that the National Institute of Statistics itself made to the 2012 GDP. The GDP series from 2012 was corrected because the National Institute of Statistics recognized that in 2012 the recession had not been 3, 3 % but 4 %, and this implied that the denominator used in all comparisons had changed statistically. But one thing is statistically changing these indicators, another thing is saying that the effective effort that was made by the country in the years when the INE reported excessive deficits was not adequate, and the government has an obligation to know this and has an obligation to defend this with the European Commission. [[PSD applause.]] I don't know if he did, I hope he did. If you do, it is important to explain to Parliament and the country why the European Commission did not accept it, because the truth is that it seems that the Commission did not accept it. As for the imposition of sanctions, by what is the year 2016, I think it is premature to be taking any conclusion. I can't believe the government is meeting its goals. I have already said this here and I hope that the Prime Minister does not consider it antipatriotic to say what he thinks about the implementation of the budget, because I have already seen him very close to this kind of insinuation and approach, which removes dignity from the debate and the way the government deals with these matters, and I am no longer referring to the parties that support it. [[PSD applause.]] But the Government is right on one point: if the Commission felt that the revised draft budget by the Government was acceptable, if the stability programme presented by the Government is not the explicit measures that should allow the target to be reached and the Commission accepted it, it cannot be presuming on the result. In the end, if the result is not achieved, then there is failure, but if the result is achieved, and this is in the hands of the government to execute, there is no reason to have sanctions in Portugal. I hope that this will clarify, once and for all, the matter of sanctions. But, Prime Minister, there is an observation that I would like to make here and that is the following: we can have many political differences, we may not agree with many of the decisions we have taken, but never in any time, nor when I perform the duties of Prime Minister, nor in the opposition, have I launched processes of intention...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u160	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I ask you to conclude, because in the second round of questions only has 2 minutes and tolerance also has limits.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u161	Mr. President, I am concluding. But the speed at which intent processes are made in the debates that I have witnessed, either by the leader of your party's bench, or by other speakers, is somewhat regrettable, Mr President, and I want to leave this on record here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u162	We may have had many differences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u163	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u164	...I did not, however, have this to say when I fought the pre-banking situation in which the country was... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u165	...and when we take all the hard steps, your help. We didn't do it with your help, sirs. Members who support the Government today. We didn't have your help. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u166	I would ask you to conclude, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u167	I never counted on your help and never said they were less patriots for that reason, but the way you are. Members today classify the way the opposition intervenes in these debates, that is, it represents the zero degree of political debate in Parliament. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u168	To ask for clarification, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor, which will certainly make an effort to contain itself within the statutory limits, contrary to what has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u169	Mr President, Prime Minister, the past and present not only in Portugal but also in Portugal have shown that the banking system needs a public bank that is strong, solid and oriented towards the development of the economy. The increase in inequalities, the accumulation of credit in default, the recent threat of Deutsche Bank, the way private banks have shown a greater appetite for speculation or destruction, make it clear that Portugal needs a public bank. A public bank is an instrument for investment and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. We well know that the right is against this idea of a public bank and we remind ourselves - of the now Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, in 2008, that he defended the privatization of the Box, as we recall from the PSD Election Program, in 2011, where they defended the dispersion of the capital of the Cash in Stock. Therefore, we know that there are those who want to contribute to the fragility and fragmentation of the General Deposit Box. We know that they are the same ones who also want to contribute to the weakening of the country, threatening and blackmailing with sanctions and throwing dust up the process of recapitalizing the Box. The Left Block will not contribute to this game of those who think the worst the country is going to look at power again. The Left Block will contribute, yes, to ensuring a strong public bank in Portugal, to a stronger and more developed economy. It is therefore necessary to leave some answers and guarantees. First, that the General Deposit Box will continue to be 100 % public; second, that the strategic reorientation of the General Deposit Box will be for the development of the economy, for productive and non-speculative investment and for the support of SMEs; third, that the General Deposit Box is placed at the service of the public interest and does not refer to other interests, whether they are parties or other economic groups. Therefore, it is necessary to actually advance the audit of the General Deposit Box, which evaluates the grant of credits and investments made in the past, which is known what the problematic credits are, i.e. those that generated more impartiality, by whom they were decided, when they were decided and with what motivation they were decided. Fourthly, and because doubt weakens more than it helps and because the certainty is that it makes Box stronger, it is necessary to answer what is the amount of recapitalisation necessary and what are the reasons for the need for this recapitalisation. It is still necessary to speak clearly for the workers, ensuring that there will be no layoffs in the General Deposit Box, be they 2500, 2000, 1000 or 5. There can be no layoffs or fragmentation of the General Deposit Box. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u170	To conclude this round of questions to Mr Prime Minister, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u171	Mr President, Prime Minister, you spoke in your initial intervention to comply with and act, but I would like to tell you that, for us, CDS, what you and your Government did in seven months was to destroy: it was to destroy the confidence of investors, it was to destroy the country's internal and external credibility, it was to destroy investment, it was to destroy growth, it was to destroy exports and it was even to destroy the unemployment reduction that it had inherited from the previous government. Mr. Prime Minister said, with regard to sanctions, that data are given. It is true, Mr Prime Minister, but if given, politics is also political, and it was enough for you to use the big voice that he promised in the opposition to tell the Commission that we do not accept another type of method other than that which was fixed and that, moreover, it was enough to follow his Minister of Finance, Mário Centeno, when in April he reaffirmed that the 2015 deficit was, without BANIF, 03 %. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But in any case, Mr Prime Minister and his Government — because the sanctions are not against his Government are against Portugal and the Portuguese — will always have the CDS to combat any intention of sanctioning Portugal and the Portuguese, come from where they come from. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to tell you the following: I do not judge the patriotism of anyone but I do not accept that they judge ours, much less who, on the eve of elections in Greece, was campaigning in Athens and defending the Syriza, which today blows up in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u172	Does Syriza blow up in this Parliament? Where?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u173	Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to say that economic data are bad and we are concerned with economic data, as the President of my party said, it is not antipatriotic, it is a duty of opposition. When it isn't, it's a bad sign, it's a sign that we live in dictatorship and it's a sign that those who aren't with us are against the country. Where are those regimes from, Prime Minister? Therefore, we do not admit that he speaks of lack of patriotism. In conclusion, Mr. Prime Minister fought the data that my party president presented saying: "No, it's all right, there's been economic growth, until fiscal revenue has grown." Mr. Prime Minister, who has raised all indirect taxes? Who has increased gas and gasoline and who is paying for the increase in tax revenue? It was V. Exa! Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u174	To respond to the three requests for clarification, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u175	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I recommend that you not take as your PSD pains because he is big enough to have his own pain. Don't worry about them. Go get rid of this company, because it does well. However, there is one thing I know: who dropped the IRS supertax was this majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Whoever dropped the maximum IMI rate was this majority. Those who reintroduced the IMI safeguard clause were this majority. Whoever lowered the VAT of the restoration was this majority. The one who dropped taxes was this majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The one who raised taxes was his majority. It's very simple! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Moisés Ferreira, very synthetically, the General Deposit Box must be a 100 % public bank and must continue to be the major pillar of stability of our financial system. It is in this sense that we are building a solid administration, which is currently being appreciated by the supervisory bodies in order to validate it. We are concluding the debate in the European Union on the business plan, either in the recapitalisation aspect or in the restructuring aspect, and as soon as we have a final version, of course, as we have always said, it will be properly presented. Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, I see you felt the need to come back to the game. But, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, and you can easily get upset with what you want, there is one thing that the Member will not take away from the view of all Portuguese: his Vice-President Maria Luís Albuquerque last Saturday allowed himself to break the national consensus that had been established between Government, President of the Republic and Assembly of the Republic in the joint defence of Portugal and the interests of Portugal for mere and pure bias. This is the reality and it was your work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I thank you for your generosity in wanting to share with the current government the governance of 2015, but despite your generosity, on our behalf there are 30 days left and the rest will be on your own.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u176	But there is no resolution of BANIF!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u177	I also recommend that you read the Commission's resolution carefully to see that the Commission concludes that, even if all the one-off measures, such as Banif's, continued to fail to meet the deficit of 3 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, because I also understood what the next campaign they are going to do, I mean the following: Banif's account is not this government; Banif's account is that you hid because you didn't have the courage to take and solve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to the stage of the interventions, which will, as you know, take place in the order of registration. Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u179	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: Parliament today takes one of the most relevant moments of the legislative session, the debate of the state of the nation. Looking at all those who have taken place so far, there is a note that highlights: the debate was rarely about the Nation, it was about the government's activity in office. Is it better or worse than a year ago that Parliament should have another question: Portugal, the nation and the country? That's the point. [[It's worse!]] [[It's worse!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u180	And the answer can only be one: Portugal is better and this evidence cannot be masked or minimized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us first look at our institutional reality. Portugal today assumes itself in the symbolism of the highest judge of the Nation in a mobilizing way. Portugal guarantees itself more peaceful in the functioning of its courts. Portugal shows itself, at a new stage in its parliamentary life, to be the most valued of our democracy. Portugal is rediscovered in the partnership strengthened with the autonomy and with the local authorities. in this appreciation of the quality of our constitutional system we can only ensure that Portugal is better, that Portugal is evoked in an institutional life less attacked by fear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in a second view, looking at the party system, the question also arises: is Portugal better or worse? The size of the commitment that the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecology Party have granted this legislation has broken a blockage of decades. The flags brought by the People-Animal-Nature party gave new time to public debate. And the advance of the Democratic and Social Center, a party that resumes the reading point of Christian democracy, is revealing a new commitment to the future. Here too our collective life is much better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But if we look at our position in Europe and in the world, is Portugal better or worse? [[It's worse!]] [[It's worse!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u181	We have gained a practical sense of Portugal's defence in the European context. We have denied the seminary compliance with the rules of Eurocracy. We have opened up new commitments with the community of Portuguese-speaking countries. We have dedicated new geostrategic uses for the internationalization of our economy. Portugal is better here too. We really will say: Portugal is much better! [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is still attention to the new powers of consultation. We are undoubtedly living a new requirement that requires a new observation on negotiation and, above all, another balance between the parties. Also here Portugal is better,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u182	... because there is no democracy without unions and there is no future without valuing work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This, the current government solution, has 19,440,000 seconds of existence. An eternity for many, little time for the social reality that supports it. But these months also require a weighting: is Portugal better or is it worse with the activity of this government? That's the question. [[It's worse!]] [[It's worse!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u183	Let us make a reading on traditional, vestafalian sovereignty: on the path that will lead to more decentralization and more simplification of the State ; on the reinforced option by the sea, in this huge country that we are, in the resources and the economy that it gives us; on the affairs of national defence, where we affirm the non-budgetary captivity and the valorization of the operation of the Armed Forces ; on the matters of security, where we indicate the return of peace to the barracks and the teams and the careful forecast of forest fires; and in justice, where we have obtained the advantage of authority and the intense reading of the network of powers and decision makers, the question that is simple: in these areas of traditional sovereignty, Portugal is better or Portugal is worse? [[Much worse!]] [[Much worse!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u184	The answer remains obvious : Portugal is much better! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us now look at the sovereign functions of Marxism, RerumNovarum and the European Communities. We returned to the time of careful management of health systems. We looked at education policies, starting from the need to first count on teachers and support the most disadvantaged. We saw the pacification of the relationship with universities and started another reading about science. We resumed social security with its primary objective of sustainability, re-elected vocational training throughout life and brought culture back to the higher level of institutional care. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The question you are asking is very simple: in these new areas of sovereignty which the 20th century has consecrated us, is Portugal better or is Portugal worse? [[It's so much worse!]] [[It's so much worse!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u185	And the answer continues to be obvious, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is much better! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, there are still areas of economic sovereignty which the time of globalisation imposes upon us. It was in this universe where change was most imposed. Change in the management of Community funds; change in the sdruxual option of transport and water management; change in terms of which support for agriculture has been devoted. The question remains simple: is Portugal better or is Portugal worse in these new areas of sovereignty than this century? [[Worse!]] [[Worse!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u186	And the answer remains obvious : Portugal is better! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we cannot forget the triangle that was at the base of the construction of the current government project: income, investment and healthy public accounts. The increase in minimum wage, wage replacement, the updating of social minimums say what was done in incomes. The costly resolution of the serious problem of the financial system, the unlocking of financing to businesses and Community funds, the fall in VAT of restoration, the new reading on energy costs and the bet on entrepreneurship meant private investment. All of this will lead to more companies and more jobs. But there is the central mark: government action does not restrict European obligations as regards the deficit, nor does it give a margin for any sanctions that would be the sole responsibility of this government. The question you ask yourself, which remains simple, is: is Portugal here better or worse? [[Worse!]] [[Worse!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u187	The answer remains obvious: Portugal is better, because Portugal is not allowed to win! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members : We have indicated areas in which Portugal is better. If we look at our centuries of history, we see that we always live with uncertainty and that we always know how to overcome them. in this political time we do not share the dogmatic vision or the path of methodical doubt. That is always the magic formula to bring back a certain reason. But there is one thing we say today and here: Portugal is better and Portugal can get even better. We all know that we are aware of the circumstances, we all know that the Head of Government is in line with the times in which we live. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u188	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not easy to discuss the state of the nation in Portugal. We live hard times and Portugal has been a hard country, too hard, and unfair for most of its citizens. Unemployment, poor pensions, precariousness, low wages and wage inequalities, lack of access to health and education, lack of justice, and shocking injustices are present. No debate in the State of the Nation will be serious if we do not think about the concrete, harsh conditions in which most people live in this country. Since October we have in this Parliament a majority committed to a path that can bring a little more justice to those who have suffered so much injustice. We know that we've done little, that's all there is to do. And, in the Left Block, we assume our share of responsibility both in what is done and in what is missing. It's a difficult way. But, as a retired gentleman told me, after a hard working life, the path is worth it because it returns dignity to the country and to each of the people who live in it. Perhaps what distinguishes the state of the nation today from the debate a year ago is the same: respect for the dignity of those who work, of those who have worked all their lives, of those who want to work, of those who live and want to live in this country. We no longer have a majority who orders to emigrate the younger ones, who treats the older ones as spoil, who goes to their fellow citizens as fold.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u190	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u191	The first task of Parliament and of whom it governs is to know who it is, the people, and to treat it with dignity and respect. It was in the name of this respect for the people and their choice, on behalf of the dignity of Portugal, that we made a commitment to a majority capable of curbing the impoverishment of the country. We are well aware of the immense difficulties of this path. And of all the difficulties, two people are struggling: a huge public debt, which brings the country's wealth, and a financial system, which is a box of bad surprises. Nothing like the size of public debt and the financial system situation so well illustrates the dirty exit from the right. All the sacrifices were made in the name of a debt and a deficit that never controlled — dirty exit — and a game of shadows, delays and misdecisions on the financial system that calls into question the public accounts, the economy and the sovereignty of our country. For those who, like PSD and CDS-PP, both attack the credibility of the direction that is followed today, it would not be wrong for those who brought us the dirty exit, to answer about their own credibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]] They failed the first two objectives of the troika adjustment program, which they wanted and vowed to comply: neither the deficit was below 3% — was it in 2013, remember? — nor did the regulation of the financial system happen. BES : resolution which has been misresolved and enormous damage. BANIF : pushed with the belly until destruction. All the private bank with problems and still try to attack the public bank. A real disgrace. Dirty way out! They sold everything they had to sell — EDP, REN, CTT, EGF, TAP, Loyalty. And everything they sold in four years paid only one year's interest in the public debt they never controlled. Dirty way out! I still remember the promise of the electoral campaign of the return of the supertax. It was going to be a mana of the heavens and it was going down to zero. It is good that the people took you out of the government and this majority ended with the overtax for 9 out of every 10 contributors. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u192	Now it's gonna be good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u193	Today, PSD and CDS-PP challenge commercial balance and investment contraction numbers, but do not respond to what counts. Does Portugal have responsibility for the crisis and economic contraction in Angola, Brazil or China? If you don't have, as you know you don't, tell me how your economic strategy would go with the breakdown of these markets, which are central to our exports, and without the internal demand that the current majority has recovered? Is everything all right? Of course not! And you know how much the Block strategy would be different from that of the government in many things. But it sends the minimum seriousness of the debate that it is recognised that, however small it is the recovery of labour income, it is the one that enables the internal market to be secure and, with the breakdown of exports due to the international crisis, this reactivation of the internal market is essential to the economy. The lack of credibility is, therefore, today on the right. There is no answer for the country, for the people, for the economy. She was removed from the government by popular will and was repulsive. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, an unprecedented step has been taken in Europe which constitutes an illegitimate and brutal attack on our country: the sanctions process initiated against Portugal. The possibility of Portugal being forced to pay for the misfortune of the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas is open. A bitter irony that is not only a European arbitrariness, it is an attack on Portugal. When Europe faces the greatest humanitarian crisis of all time, being unable to respond to refugees and migrants fleeing the war, terror, hunger, where xenophobia grows and there are European governments that build walls between Member States, when the United Kingdom decides to leave the European Union, when the IMF declares that the greatest risk to the world economy is Deutsche Bank and the large international bank, what does the European Union do? It decides to open a procedure for sanctions against Portugal for a tenths of the deficit which is the responsibility of a government that has done everything Brussels and Berlin have sent and has already been replaced. The European Commission wants to punish a people for being a victim of the policy that the Commission itself imposed. Portugal, the 'good student' governed by the right — which, however, failed each budget target — is punished at a time when the budget implementation gives positive signs. The right position, in this scenario, has been of the most open and irresponsible opportunism. PSD and CDS-PP began by criticizing the sanctions, which condemned in parliamentary vote, but quickly adapted and unfolded in explanations outside the plenary on European mistrust regarding post-legislative political changes. PSD and CDS-PP are today the internal explainers of the external blackmail against Portugal, because this is its only strategy for the return to power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u195	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We well know that what is in progress, even by the way the process and its times are managed, with no definition of who makes which decisions and when, only serves to increase pressure and blackmail on Portugal. It is a political punishment of the European directory to the democratic choice of most Portuguese. Berlin or Brussels are not interested in public accounts — they have never been interested — but only in the neoliberal and austere agenda. For our part, we will not be able to see the strengthening of treaties that deny democracy and offend the dignity of peoples in Portugal and Europe. People who think that combating extreme-rightness and xenophobia in Europe are being silenced on the paths of Europe of Juncker and Schäuble, Merkel and Holland. It is from this Europe and from this silence that extremism is fuelled. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the Left Block repeated its challenge of always, i.e. that in Portugal the people can pronounce themselves on the construction — perhaps, today, more precisely — European deconstruction and dare say the word « referendum», the reaction was shocking. But this shock now seems to have given rise to a more or less technical debate on how to consult the people. We are making progress and are available for this debate. The President of the Republic has already acknowledged that he has always defended referendums on steps to be taken in Europe. Let us not deceive ourselves: the acceleration of the German domain on Europe and the punishment of the weaker economies makes the European Union worse. Yes, the people will want to be heard either to prevent the budgetary treaty, the sanctions treaty, from becoming a European treaty, or to build a Europe that knows that solidarity does not reign with humiliation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u197	Sooner than later, not because the Bloc proposes it, but because the pressure of European policy falls on our lives, the country will demand to speak on the way of the European Union. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our priority will be, as we have always said, to defend the country and people, to fight for employment and justice, to respect the parliamentary majority agreement to restore income. This is where we focus our energies, from then on on the difficult negotiation of the State budget for 2017. If sanctions take effect and press public accounts, the solution cannot be austerity. We must challenge sanctions, open the process of restructuring public debt, defend employment. To give in to European pressure is to fail the mandate of this majority. We can't do it. The way will be difficult, yes, but we're here to do it. in an unjust country, in which a few profit so much with the difficulties of almost all, we started in October a path of recovery of income that we will continue. It is necessary to maintain the path of increasing the national minimum wage, combat precariousness, fight for employment, attack income to ensure fair energy prices for all, combat abuse of the private health sector, defend school, attack PPPs. It is necessary to keep an entire path. We're here to fight for him, we won't take any steps back. We know that our responsibility is to defend Portugal and that is our commitment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u198	Mr José Pedro Aguiar Branco has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u199	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am one of those who believe in Parliament's institution, in its representative value, in its diversity, in its plurality and responsibility, individual and collective which is inherent in the mandate of the Member State. I believe that the differences here enrich the country, being the greatest expression of a mature democracy. As a believer, truly and not for convenience, in parliamentary democracy, I am one of those who believe that it is not only the governments that must respond by the State of the Nation, but also the parties must. All parties with parliamentary seats must respond, even those who — or even more — take themselves as hybrids, now in opposition, now supporting the government, even though they are the only ones responsible for its existence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u201	All must answer, for what they have said or not said, for what they have done or have not done, for the role they want or do not play in relation to the Government of the Country. The PSD is today, by popular will, the largest party in Parliament. We do not govern but we accept, with the civic sense of service for the public cause, that role of being the greatest party in Parliament. We accept the duties and inherent responsibilities of party which in this Parliament represent the largest number of Portuguese. It is an effective representation rather than a proclamational illusion, such as that of others who have married for the mere exercise of power. But, all of us sitting here, regardless of the parties we represent, of our ideological affiliations, have duties and responsibilities for those who have trusted us and for our own conscience. And that is exactly what I want to talk to you about, with the realism of those who know that for the ever radical history of BE, and for the latest of the « new Christians» of the radicalism of the Socialist Party, subjects of consciousness and respect for the meaning of popular expression have become secondary and merely instrumental values. [[PSD applause.]] As a believer in parliamentary democracy, as I said, it is not difficult for me to recognize the important role that the Portuguese Communist Party has played in building and consolidating democracy. For years, the CFP has been the critical voice of governments, of all governments, more right or left, emanating from Parliament or from the presidential initiative. For 40 years the PCP wanted to incarnate itself as a sort of moral compass or conscience of this House and, in many respects, rightly—and I say - without a hint of irony - for example, to be the expression of intransigent coherence, even when it seemed to harm its own interests, even when it objectively harmed its own interests. Whatever it cost, with the PCP there were no half-words, colorful interpretations or gray areas. It was this righteousness that we learned to appreciate in the PCP, this rhetorical austerity,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... and even a genetic inability to promote the demagogy that many feared to confuse with a lack of skill for politics. I am of the time when, for the PCP, friendly terminations were headed layoffs,... [[All right!]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u202	...in which having TAP in the hands of the private was a criminal. So, without fear in words, without any omission. I am of the time when labor laws were the same for all workers, whether good or bad, of 35 or 40 hours of work, but for all alike — socialism, they said! I am of the time that the CFP would never allow the VAT of the restaurant to be reduced to benefit the industry of the sector, that the State should abdicate the revenue that is needed for many, for the benefit of a few.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u203	It's not worth making up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u204	I am the time when the CFP was against NATO and I did not expect the Prime Minister's conversation with Mr Shäuble to know what to think or what to say about a particular subject. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I am of the time that PCP would never admit a government intervention in the General Deposit Box, initiated with the increase in the salary of its managers and that will be completed with the dismissal of 2500 workers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u205	That's what the PSD has to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u206	What would Dr. Alvaro Cunhal think of these measures? Open... [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] What would you say of your own comrades who, with their silence, with bourgeois justifications or at the service of the great capital, allow one thing of these? [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] It was Dr. Álvaro Cunhal himself who once said that being a communist is always to pay attention to all the great inequalities, injustices and social discrimination and to fight and organize the fight to be corrected and to put an end to them. Question: for the PCP, none of this is an injustice? An unacceptable inequality? Where are the communists? Return the PCP to Parliament! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I am of the time that the PCP would never abdicate 40 years of history to be treated as if they were one more on the stage of politics, I would say, another Left Block! That is, no more than a circumstance that serves only as a crutch for the mere satisfaction of the exercise of power by power, even with the sacrifice of development, well-being and the future of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] I know they're gonna sign up to say that what they do or not is just your problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u207	Is that yours? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u208	But no! in this historical circumstance of foreseeable further deepening of the country, it is not just an internal issue of the Party. It's a lot more than that. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u209	First of all, it is a matter of loyalty to those who trusted the PCP. Do you believe this is the patriotic and left-wing government that the PCP has always defended? Do you believe that any true communist accepts a collective dismissal, more or less headlong, or the promotion of selective labour laws? Do you believe that these measures, these ministers, justify the natural and notorious embarrassment with which they live every day, from retreats to resignation? [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] Secondly, it is a matter of regime, because, at the end of the day, the responsibility of the CFP is much greater than any one of us judges and, because he does not confess it, I would even like to. José Socrates was in power only as long as the PCP wanted. And it was in the name of a patriotic and leftist government that let him fall. Is this Government of Antony Costa a patriotic and left-wing government justified in maintaining? Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa is a serious man.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u210	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u211	You're very badly accompanied!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u212	He's a man who crushes most... [[PCP protests.]] It's a compliment! As I said, it is a man who the overwhelming majority of the Members in this House and the Portuguese recognize as a serious man, that more than anyone else has the notion that there is a limit to the « swallowing frogs». And, as a serious man who is, long ago he must have crossed that line. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the omission of the CFP is not a matter of silence. The omission is an active complicity. You are complicit in the curious business of this government in the TAP, in which the State is owner, paid to the private, but does not send. It's funny about this business. You are complicit in the discrimination of workers in the private sector, you are complicit in the dismissal in the General Deposit Box, but, more than complicit, you are as responsible as the authors of the measures. That is why, for the first time in 40 years of democracy, the CFP cannot, in this debate, require explanations about the state of the nation. They have to give explanations, such as the Socialist Party and the Left Block, because the silence of the PCP and its complicity with these policies also make it a greater person in charge of the state of the Nation. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as there is a clear state of denial on the part of Mr Prime Minister, the economy is slowing down, there is no foreign investment and job creation has stagnated.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u213	Is our antenna time over yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u214	PCP antenna time is up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u215	The deadlines for payments of debts on behalf of the IRS have been renewed by the State; the return to Portuguese of advances on behalf of the IRS has reassessed; the public debt has just reached a new historic peak and the interest rates for sovereign debt, which continued, in our Government, a consistent reduction route, now return to the risk of increasing beyond control; growth sets, far from the estimated by the government, always on a collision route with which all institutions, national and international, have been alerting and the reality has been demonstrating. We even started to hear about reverse the reversals. And in the face of all this, the Government, patriotic and left-wing, blames the instability of international markets and even blames Brexit — he is afraid — for the failure of his own measures. Where have we heard this before? Sometime in early 2011 and we all know the painful consequences for our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u216	Exactly! It was Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u217	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a year ago we discussed whether the economy grew more or less a tenth, if employment recovery could be more or less significant, if exports could increase even more. This was the state of the nation in 2015 and that the Government of António Costa is destroying, with contempt for the sacrifices and the effort of the Portuguese and again calling into question the future of Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u218	If the government, with the usual despot of António Costa and as he once again stated, was born to resolve misfortunes, then dear Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it would have been better if I hadn't taken over. The misfortunes did not exist in 2015 and only the need for the Prime Minister's political survival led to the action of this government, with the results, yes, unfortunate ones, who, day after day, are given to us. We have recently learned that Portugal can be punished by the European Commission and not because of the excessive deficit. It may be sanctioned by the lack of credibility and the inability of this Government to present measures to meet the commitments that have been made. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] A year ago, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we discussed the success of the exit of a financial rescue. [[PS protests.]] Today we are again discussing the possibility of a new rescue to Portugal. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] [[PS protests.]] Tell us how it was possible to have come so far in such a short time? Surely, because these who now rule us were also government in 2011 when the country stood at the door of bankruptcy. The other explanations, which VV. Ex. They'll give, I don't know. But I know it would certainly have been impossible if all the parties represented here had fulfilled their role. In the PSD we will continue, as a major party in Parliament, to honour the popular will, the one that gave us victory in the last elections. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] [[Protests from PS, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u219	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u220	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We hold this debate on the state of the nation in a new political framework that allowed, with the change in the composition of this Assembly, to open a new phase of national political life and with it the opportunity to take the first steps in overcoming the serious consequences of the pact of aggression, economic and social regression and the deepening of the country, which dramatically marked national life in recent years. A new phase in the political life of the country that leaves behind one of the darkest periods of our democratic life, which PSD / CDS and its government have played a role, based on a strategy of exploitation and impoverishment of the people and destruction of the country, with the lasting consequences that they want to whiteen today. The state of the nation we are debating today is the state of a country that faces serious problems that need to be overcome, problems that, in order to be overcome, require the liberation and overcoming of the strong constraints imposed by the euro and other instruments of national submission, a suffocating debt and various blockades that, associated with the right-wing policy of decades, have led the country to the crisis and to the serious problems that remain, where weighs decades and half of anemic growth and recessive cycles, structural weaknesses, aggravated labour exploitation policies and growing social inequalities. Well those who have led the country through the path of ruin and social despair that has sunk thousands of lives, the PSD and the CDS, can mount the farce that proclaims that there is no turn in the politics that they have promoted, that they want back, and that workers and the people also consider as necessary. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Aguiar Branco for his good words. I think it would be important to have this idea: you do not understand the prevailing feeling in Portuguese society that, for years and years, you have seen your lives flailed, your employment lost and the impossibility of you responding to your health and social support problems and you have seen many voters of the PSD and CDS-PP — we are not only talking about communist, socialist or Left Block voters — withdrawing their confidence, rejecting their vote and defeating the PSD and CDS. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] Look for these 700 000 votes that have escaped you and find the fundamental reason why the Portuguese Communist Party has made a decisive contribution to the removal of this government. [[PS protests.]] From this PSD and CDS government, obviously! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the threat of sanctions, which today has had another leaflet to which the country has witnessed, the role of intrigue, the catastrophic prophecies, the systematic pressures promoted to condition the decisions of the legitimate institutions of the Portuguese Republic, have this political objective: to create additional difficulties for the recovery of the country, to reverse the positive measures taken and to prevent any political solution that has not been evaluated by itself. The owners of the European Union, the European Union which is increasingly of the monopolies, antidemocratic, antisocial and national oppression groups, do not admit or accept any deviation from the dictates that serve the interests they represent. It is a European Union in crisis, as the referendum in the United Kingdom reveals, and it is the reflection of serious and profound problems resulting from a visibly exhausted process of integration. What they want to ensure is the maintenance of a country that is subjected, without its own will, governed by the co-religionaries who follow the same road mapped by the neoliberal vulgar, in a European Union that wants it to be of napkins and vassals. For this reason, the state of the nation today is also one of a country that sees even more threatened the indecisive right to decide on its own future; a country that needs to make large and urgent options to secure the interests of the Portuguese people, their development, sovereignty and national independence; the choice between continuing to drag our feet on the path of the last years that has led us to impoverishment or to start a new course with another policy, in breach of right-wing policy and submission to the European Union and the euro. Portugal needs to equip itself with the means and instruments to overcome the delay and underdevelopment, dependence and current vulnerability. This means confronting the European Union, which conditions our ability to produce, our freedom to distribute the wealth created, our ability and our freedom to choose the path that, as a people, we want to follow. Can a people be subject to systematic external imposition and to be questioned about all and any decisions of their legitimate institutions, how is this to occur? You can't! The aim is also to materialise the proposal of the CFP to convene an intergovernmental summit with a view to institutionalizing the reversibility of treaties and the immediate suspension and repeal of the budget treaty. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] We are all, it seems, according to the rejection of sanctions, but will it be of any use to leave sanctions on the way, while the instruments, the rules, the laws, the treaties reflect precisely that, the recommendations and the way to impose those sanctions? in this sense, revoking the treaties, suspending and revoking the budgetary treaty is a matter of great urgency and modernity. Portugal needs to open a new path, needs a patriotic and left-wing policy... [[The PSD member José Pedro Aguiar Branco's laughs.]] ... — I would like you to hear Mr Aguiar Branco — able to respond to fundamental problems, such as weak economic growth, unemployment and low levels of investment, and ensure decent living conditions for Portuguese people. Portugal needs a policy that assumes the recovery of monetary sovereignty with the liberation of the country from subordination to the euro, which enshrines as an undeniable necessity the renegotiation of debt to free resources and which resolutely faces the serious problem of monopolistic domination of the bank, with its increasing recovery to the public sector and the strengthening of the General Deposit Box and its role as a public bank. Portugal needs a policy that has decidedly promoted investment and recovers the delays in recent years and, with its strengthening, encourages the increase in national production, its diversification and its affirmation, in place of foreign production, giving strong support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Portugal needs a policy that assumes the value of work and workers as an essential axis of alternative policy and that assumes, without wheels, the objectives of valuing wages and their rights. Can a people receive the minimum wage of €530 per month and an administrator receive €3 million per year? You can't! You mustn't! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That is why we, in relation to the recent case of the General Deposit Box, had a clear position, that Mr. Deputies did not see, did not read,... [[PSD protests.]] ... and we wanted to say that the basis of this principle has always been, over the past 40 years, that of coherence with regard to the valuation of wages and workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]] We need a policy aimed at the well-being and quality of life of everyone, from the guarantee of the right to health, an inseparable objective of strengthening the National Health Service; the defence and enhancement of the social security system — public, solidarity and universal — raising the social protection of workers, ensuring the right to reform and a decent pension; a fair fiscal policy, which relieves taxes on workers and the people and strongly taxes the profits, dividends and financial transactions of the great capital; a policy that assumes in education this greater objective of comprehensive training for children and young people, with the affirmation of a free, quality and inclusive public school, where everyone is guaranteed the right to knowledge and equal opportunities. Portugal needs a policy that guarantees the cultural functions of the State and assumes scientific and technical knowledge as a direct productive force, indispensable to sustained economic development; a policy that assumes the affirmation of a free and sovereign Portugal in a world and a Europe of peace and cooperation between equal states in rights; a policy that responds, with concrete measures, to urgent problems that cannot be constantly postponed, such as combating precariousness and the exploitation of wages; the possibility of reform without penalties to 40 years of contributions; the real increase in pensions and the extension of the free of school textbooks. Portugal needs measures to support young families and children, with the extension and strengthening of maternity and paternity leave, and investment in the network of kindergartens and kindergartens; the safeguarding of housing, especially of people over 65 years of age, avoiding eviction, and the extension and strengthening of the rights of residents of the social districts and the supported income regime. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal needs to get rid of the ties that prevent its development. It is not the time of sleepy phraseology; we do not stop or turn this fight and this struggle into a demand to die standing. We propose and fight to live standing in a sovereign nation, with a people who have the inalienable right to determine their own future. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u221	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u222	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the first debate of the state of the Government of the Left Unity and is therefore, after eight months of governance, the right time to evaluate the Government and its options. It is also, I would say, the right time for this Parliamentary solution, which placed in power the main defeated election of 4 October, to assume its responsibilities. We live at a time when the main indicators, in relation to Portugal, are negative, in which uncertainty is installed and in which Portugal is again on the radar of distrust. That is why it is time for the Socialist Party to stop taking responsibility and shouldering its responsibilities and the consequences of its options, the PS which, until today, has not even assumed the fact that, in its last governance, it has led the country to pre-bancarrot, with all that it has entailed and with this responsibility of so many and so many sacrifices for so many Portuguese people. For the PS, it is always the fault of the others, from abroad, Germans, banks, the European Commission and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on the limit is ours. On the limit, it will be our fault. For PS, guilt only does not die single because it is always from others and therefore they always find someone to marry. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Stop it! That's enough, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. We, the center-right, have our backs wide, but not so much. By the way, we have the wide backs but we also have the head raised, because the truth is that only with enormous political determination and courage was possible to overcome the lead years of the ransom we inherited from the Socialist Party. The inheritance we received was that of the 11 % deficit, which was the account for roads without cars and airports without planes. That was the inheritance we received. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The legacy we left behind was the growing economy and unemployment falling steadily. It was the Government of the united Left that decided to reverse or call into question the reforms undertaken, thus undermining the credibility that so much work required of the Portuguese people. It was also the Socialist Party that, in order to reach power, chose — legitimately, I do not question — to build a solution and a partnership with political forces that are hostile to private initiative, do not believe in Europe and want to leave the euro. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the choices have consequences. It was the PS who chose for partners some of those who walked through this Europe out of hand given with all that was radical and extremist force, as it was still the PS who, to consolidate and maintain power, gave in to corporate interests and unions, which are the basis of support for the management that they mounted. It's time to assume your responsibilities. Mr Prime Minister cannot continue to blame all that is bad for the past and to 'push forward with the belly' all the problems of the present, which, I recognize, even does with some effectiveness. See, for example, the case of payments, which are all « pushed forward with the belly». The choices have consequences and the situation we are living in is unfortunately worrying. Mr. Prime Minister, the oasis that brought us here is open to reality. Let's get to the facts, and just the facts. Facts without rhetoric, facts and raw numbers. As regards economic growth, Portugal was growing 1, 71 % last year — more than the euro area average — and now Portugal has returned to 0, 9 %, i.e. below the European average ; investment, which was growing in the last quarters of the previous government, fell in chains 2, 6 % while in the euro area continues to grow. Therefore, there is no problem with the international crisis; exports, which had increased by 5 %, fell by 2 %. As far as job creation is concerned, Portugal has almost less than 14 000 employees compared to one year ago. In other words, the country lost jobs, investing a consistent cycle of job creation. Debt does not fall by 130 % and industrial production has fallen by 2 %. These are facts and worrying numbers. And, Prime Minister, even public investment — public investment, which was the panacea that all of you said would solve the country's problems — fell 28 %. It's extraordinary! These results are the consequence of your options and your governance mistakes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u223	First mistake: when the government, subordinate to an ideological agenda, chooses as option reverse privatisations and concessions the result is obvious. Question : Who will invest in a country that changes everything and puts all the investment in question, from time to time, on the basis of an ideological agenda? Who will invest in these circumstances? You are responsible for an anti-investment climate. And then, I do justice, the CFP was always right: in fact, as you have always said, capital has no homeland and it is installed where it is most favorable. If conditions in Portugal are created as negative, capital moves elsewhere, as is obvious and obvious. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Second error: the same is said of the option to freeze the IRC reform. Which companies do you want to look for when you killed the country's fiscal competitiveness? Third mistake: what job do you expect to create, when you have already proved to be in the hands of a union that aims to close everything, close access to employment and thus prevent new generations from entering employment? See what happened in the ports, or in education, where you have completely yielded to this union current. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Fourth mistake: what growth do you expect to create when you are halting labour reform for ideological reasons, or, more importantly, Mr Deputies, when you advance with 35 hours, against all logic, including the logic of people's life expectancy today? The economy needed more work and more revenue. You created a country with two regimes, and at 35 hours, you throw chaos in the health sector. Finally, the fifth mistake: how can it be possible to have confidence and credibility when it is announced to be preparing the renegotiation of debt, plus increases in taxes or nationalisations, all this is supported, above all, in an erratic speech of hostility towards Europe? Mr Prime Minister, do you think our European partners don't hear them? Don't you hear what the gentlemen here say? Do you think our European partners are unaware of their pacts with the radical left? Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: What we should be doing — we, as a country — was exactly the opposite. And I am going to give some examples: we should be working on a daily basis to achieve better tax conditions for our companies while attracting investment; we should work tirelessly to support the internationalisation of Portuguese companies and to help our exporting companies out there, as we do not see this government doing. The government has done nothing of that. What we should be doing was the serious, consistent defense, as said here by the President of my party, of our numbers, of our credibility, protecting Portugal in the external sphere. And from that point of view, Mr Prime Minister, nothing too! However, I recognize the current Prime Minister, in order to be fair, a merit of which you, of course, day yes, day no, has the habit of congratulating itself: the merit of, even though all overvanks, management has not yet gone. That merit, Prime Minister, you have it. And he talks a lot about him. But to rule, Mr. Prime Minister, does not tire out in balancing management. This does not only solve any problem in the country, as, on the contrary, it aggravates the problems in the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With the tolerance that characterizes us, I can still discover another advantage in this exercise (and I am praising, as already noted). Mr Prime Minister has also managed that the most radical left is no longer what he was before — « mandatory management», I would say — and he is even quite silent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u224	It's not radical anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u225	I'm going to give an example: when the 2500 workers were announced to be fired in the General Deposit Box, someone heard the outrage with the drama of the people, that Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa talked about so much? Neither PCP, nor BE — “many”! “ Very much, ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't hear anything at all! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Remember, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what would you have been screaming at us when the former Prime Minister spoke on opportunities abroad for our young people and even our teachers? Well, today, the current Prime Minister recommends to the teachers emigration and not PCP, nor BE... A « tweetzinho», and nothing more — finished matter! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Moreover, the then leader of the opposition, Antonio Costa, said: "It is a colossal mistake to bet on cheap labour" — how many times have we heard this here, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! Well, the current Minister of Finance goes to New York and has the advantage: "Portuguese work very hard and are cheap". Did you hear the outrage on the left? Zero! Nothing! They can't get angry! It's the price of management.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u226	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u227	Finally, Mr President, with a final example, I would also like to say: concerning Brexit the following day, what did the Secretary of State of the Communities recommend to the Portuguese? It was no longer immigration, it was « acquiring dual nationality», i.e. becoming foreign, which is the best that this government has to propose to you and offer you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u228	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u229	I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that we in the CDS will continue to be constructive opposition, as we have been, with regard to demography, with the proposals on birth, which you plunged, as we were in family matters and as we were yesterday with the proposals on social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u230	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u231	Let's continue to be constructive opposition. The problem is that you—and I remember Zeca, to be content—lead everything, drop everything and let nothing happen. But we do not give up, because our path is Portugal and we are an alternative party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u232	For an intervention, you have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In these days of national exaltation, it is indeed regrettable that some parties have abandoned the national clique, for pure party interest. They went too far. When they were convinced that Portugal would be sanctioned by the deviations and errors of their own management, they soon jumped the barrier, stopped fighting and aligned, in an opportunistic way, with those who here and there tried to justify the sanctions with the action of the current government, who well know that they had no responsibilities in this period under review. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For our part, the Portuguese know that we preferred that the 2015 deficit would not have been more than 3 % and that we did not stop fighting against the injustice of possible sanctions, because the only thing that matters, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is the interest of Portugal. It is wrong for the Rabbit Steps and Maria Luís Albuquerque to try to undermine the internal and external credibility of the current government, just to seek to clear their own image. Even today, Mr Aguiar Branco did not resist and returned to the same tone. Mr President, I do not refuse to say to you the following: how concerned you must be with the situation of the largest German bank to come here to reproduce such disproposed statements and of such gravity in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic! [[P.S.'s applause.]] For our part, we do not engage in these petty games and defend the credibility of the country and public institutions in Portugal and Europe. We are demonstrating by our action that citizens, businesses and European institutions themselves can rely on the country and Portuguese so that confidence brings more stability, more investment, better employment. For seven months, the mark of this government was the action. Agimos, commencing with Portugal. We have fulfilled our commitments and improved the income of families, which has enabled us to strengthen domestic demand. We did it because citizens needed to trust again. But we also did, because the lack of demand was always presented by companies as the main reason for delaying their investments. We did, when we created the macroeconomic environment of stability that the country needed. But we do not stop here in the effort to recover trust and investment. We launched a new strategic design, the National Reform Programme. But also, and since the first day, we have speeded up the implementation of the European funds, which are a fundamental instrument for mobilizing investment. When this government took possession, the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework) was very late and Portugal 2020 was virtually stopped. Business investment and small works of proximity suffered brutally the results of the rhetoric and inaction of the previous government. Just one year ago, Mr Aguiar Branco, the investment had fallen almost 4 % in jail. What revisions of privatisations occurred a year ago during your government for the investment to have fallen 4 % in jail, Mr. Members of the PSD and the CDS? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, the reason for this situation was to stop at the closure of the QREN and the lack of Portugal 2020 start-up. The former government, precisely at that time, was announcing that it would close the QREN by the end of 2015. They stayed far away from fulfilling the promise. To solve this heavy inheritance, we met and paid 490 million euros that were late, resulting from the lack of compliance with the promise to close the QREN in 2015. We concluded the payment of all projects that were in a position to receive Community support. It was we who had to do it, because, on your side, only the promises to fulfill were left. In Portugal 2020, competitions for works of proximity did not start, and only EUR 4 million of payments had been made to companies. We presented Plan 100 — paying EUR 100 million to companies in the first 100 days of government — which we have just met. But is this too much or is it too little? In seven months, we multiplied by more than 50 what the previous government had done in two years, with regard to Portugal 2020 and support for companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have thus transmitted the necessary confidence for companies to make their investment. And the companies responded favorably. We had, in the tenders closed in April and May, a record of applications for new investment projects, in the order of EUR 3000 million. To deal with this demand, without parallel in the last 10 years, and the trust expressed by the entrepreneurs, we have acted again. We decided to double the money available to approve applications, so that no quality project of our companies would be out of line. With the projects already approved and contracted in Portugal 2020, which we also had to multiply by 10 for what we have found, some 7000 jobs will be created in net terms in Portugal. And we're talking about contracted projects with contracted targets, projects already hired by this government, almost all of them, and with 7000 jobs. With this new demand from companies and with the decision to strengthen the amount available to approve these investments, we hope that more than double the jobs created by investment with the Portugal 2020 brand. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to proximity investment, investment by authorities in small and medium-sized urban rehabilitation projects, sustainable mobility projects, schools, health centres or heritage recovery, we launched EUR 1400 million contests, so that they can present their works, solving the impasse and the problems that the previous government had not solved. We have already received EUR 350 million for investment, and we are committed to approving all applications for urban rehabilitation in just one month. But the recovery of the Portuguese economy and employment requires us to do more and more quickly. In order for these proximity investments and private investments to reach the ground quickly, we presented yesterday the investment accelerator Portugal 2020, which will encourage companies and municipalities to anticipate their investments by 2016, stimulating the economy in a phase of greater uncertainty in the external economic framework. We will support more proximity projects if a part of the rehabilitation investment is already carried out in 2016, or in early 2017, and will increase support for innovative investment by companies if they anticipate their implementation, supporting more the investment that takes place in 2016. That is the case, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, fulfilling Portugal, acting by Portugal, that this Government is advancing, fighting here and there for the future of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u234	Mr Minister, the Bureau has registered, to request clarification, three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u235	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u236	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u237	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, although he has not mentioned, there is a question of his political protection that concerns us very much and that has had recent developments within the Committee on Economic Affairs, with the holding of a series of hearings to entities that were or are linked to the process of privatisation of TAP. Eng. Fernando Pinto was here at these hearings and made a series of statements that we do not cease to consider quite surprising. At a certain point in the normal discussion process within the Commission, Mr. Eng. Fernando Pinto expressly said that one month after the government had announced a new corporate distribution agreement in the TAP, which he and the members of the Executive Board send to TAP. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u238	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u239	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Mr Minister, this « film » that Mr. Eng. Fernando Pinto is looking to see in his company ignores the fact that under this corporate agreement the Government has defined a new model of governance for the company, namely the appointment by the Government of a president of the company's board of directors. When will this appointment be made, Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u240	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u241	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, on political debate on economic development and investment strategies, there is a starting point for this discussion, which has to do with the concrete situation that this country faced at the end of four years of PSD / CDS governance, a fall of 36 % of the investment in four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u243	in this fall of 36 % of the investment in four years, in which, on behalf of the debt, it was cut in public expenditure and in particular in public investment, the country was faced with a situation which, unfortunately, will still last on the effects and impacts it has on the options of the previous government. And we are still and we will be paying that bill, as a result of the options and policies that the PSD and the CDS imposed on the country and the people. We are now back to the question that we have been stressing over time in relation to public investment: without prejudice to the positive contribution to the budgetary implementation that is being made by the increase in domestic consumption and public consumption, resulting from the gradual return of wage income and rest, the truth is that the draining of resources for charges, with an unsustainable debt, largely illegitimately, and with the support and tax benefits to large capital, especially financial capital, is being translated into very low levels of public investment, which is indispensable to boost economic activity, broaden national productive capacity and create jobs. Although budget implementation figures have to be read in the light of the concrete reality of the 2015 financial transfers and the weight of PPPs (public-private partnerships) in the State accounts, the truth is that we are facing really low levels of public investment. And we already know for a long time that the authorities have had and have the ability and willingness to contribute to a fundamental piece of public investment. Moreover, in this regard, it is only regrettable that the conditions created and imposed by the previous PSD/CDS Government for the current Portugal 2020 framework have disregarded and reduced this role of local power and its access to Community funds. We note the measure of increased support for investment projects, which has already moved forward this year, but it is important to stress that private investment and the investment of local authorities, being of no importance and having gained more relative weight, do not replace the public investment that needs to be promoted and decided. The Minister referred to this measure which the Government has designated as Accelerator for Investment. Using this logic, I think it is important to stress that it is also necessary in this country to embrace the investment, to see whether we are geared to another investment dimension so that the acceleration we all want has the multiplier effects that the economy really needs. We want to make it clear to those who have not yet understood that we do not regard public investment as an end in themselves, but rather as a factor of economic growth, of modernization of the country and its infrastructure, of its productive sectors, of creating wealth, with better use of resources, of stable employment and rights. This is what we talk about when we talk about quality public investment. It is in this sense that we leave the question on the option and strategy of the Government in that area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u244	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u245	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, we must work to strengthen the country because the way the PSD and the CDS have weakened it now requires a lever for our part in this regard. A short time ago, when I made an intervention, I referred to the issue of income. The recovery of income is essential for the re-enhancing of the economy, because we cannot maintain ourselves alone and exclusively dependent on the outside — this has to move in and it is essential that this is the case — but also because of the right of people to work with a fair income. Therefore, Mr Minister, I take this debate to announce to the other parliamentary groups and also to the Government that The Greens, in order to contribute to morality in this country, today delivered to the Assembly of the Republic a bill which aims to limit the salaries of directors of regulatory entities. It is a contribution — and I ask the attention of all the ladies and gentlemen. Members — to moralityise this country and to a fair distribution of wealth. Let's be honest! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[PSD protests.]] On the other hand, another fundamental factor to strengthen this country is, of course, public and private investment. And let us not be naive: public investment is an excellent lever for private investment. Mr Minister, the Government has set up a mission unit for the enhancement of the interior. It is therefore based on the principle that the Government is concerned about regional asymmetries and is firm in combating these regional asymmetries. It happens, Mr Minister, that the mobility of populations is essential to combat this interiority of the country and to promote greater territorial cohesion. If the Minister recalls here in the Assembly of the Republic, on the initiative of the Greens, a Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic aimed at replacing the normality of the passenger service on the East Line was adopted. What's going on, Minister? Currently, the only passenger service that is guaranteed continues to be the circulation of two cars on Friday and Sunday. In other words, the passenger service is not valued according to the needs of the populations. in this sense, Mr Minister, it is essential to combat interiority, regional asymmetries, to boost investment in these regions, because we already have the Polytechnic Institute of Portalegre, the Training Center of the GNR of Portalegre. That is to say, we started by training, by qualification, but the lack of mobility does not make these centres of qualification and training attractive. Have you noticed, Minister? Therefore, mobility is a fundamental factor for an investment and for promoting the quality of life of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u246	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u247	I will finish, Mr. President. I would like to hear a word from the Minister in this debate about how we will strengthen this passenger service and, of course, work towards the railway plan, which has been approved here on the Greens' initiative. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u248	In reply, Mr President, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u249	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa, as you know - I have also said - the implementation of the new corporate model has a set of ongoing procedures that have to do with the approval of contracting entities with the TAP, with the international competition authorities, with the realization of the public offer of sale of some of the actions to the workers, which we will obviously carry out - that was what was missing if it were not so! — and, after that, we can then close the operation and stabilize the new model to which you referred. From now on, when the new model that we have approved is being implemented, this model will pass—and it is very different from what existed in the company and what still exists in this situation—by strategic control by the State through the Board of Directors, either by its position as shareholder, because it will become the largest shareholder of the company, or by a Board of Directors to which it will preside and in which it will have a quality vote of all the strategic options of the company. This does not affect the idea that operational management will continue in the Executive Board — it is usually in a company — but the company's strategic future will be assured by the presence of the State in that Board of Directors, as our purpose was to do. We can move away from the option that has been taken from a private investor's stay in the TAP or not — I know that this keeps us away from the need of the State to have a say on the strategic future of that company, and that is what will happen as soon as these administrative procedures are completed. We have already received at least an opinion from the international competition authorities that it is mandatory to consult, admit to receiving the others soon and develop all the other proceedings at that time. On the question of public investment and railway investment in particular, as you know, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, no guidance had been given in this regard on the part of the Government, even that replacement made for electoral purposes of the passenger service on the East Line had already been completed. We have maintained this service, we are studying the search, as we commit ourselves, and the search prospects in that service, we are studying how we can boost connections in general. And, as you know, an intervention is planned in the East Line itself, in the south corridor, precisely in the context of extending the competitiveness of that corridor. But most important is the strengthening of rail investment. by investing in the two connecting channels in Spain, in the north and in the south, we are also investing in competitiveness, in service to the populations and our businesses in the interior because these services will connect both with Spain and with the coast of the country. Therefore, in this sense, they will strengthen the centrality of this space of the territory, which is our interior. Public investment, as has been said here, must be leveraged, must be recovered. We are making a very great effort in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u250	Minister, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u251	I will now finish, Mr President. The legacy in this matter was heavy: Portugal 2020 was about to start and we had to map the investments to be made on the Portuguese railway so that they could be financed by our Community funds, we had to prepare the contests — these EUR 1400 million contests — so that the authorities could invest in urban rehabilitation, in schools, in health centres, in the rehabilitation of heritage throughout the territory. We had to prepare a lot of work, many projects, many contests for our railway investment, and, as you know, is already going on the competition for the works, which are so important and expected for decades, for the electrification of the Mining Line, which will make it competitive in the connections between Porto, Minho and Galicia. This invitation to tender is due to the determination of this Government. The work on the North Line is happening because, in due course, the government has taken the necessary steps to make it happen. We are therefore working for rail investment, for investment in important environmental areas, for energy efficiency, for urban rehabilitation. These investments are becoming a reality and will be even more a reality to stop this fall cycle of investment, because we have had to work a lot, and we are working a lot, to boost our Community funds in the service of increasing public investment. Public accounts are healthy, yes, but at the same time a leverage of economic growth through private investment, through the investment accelerator that supports private investment most in 2016 but that will also support more investment by the authorities, so that it can happen this year and, thus, we can have more employment, more economic growth and more cohesion throughout the territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u252	Minister, the PS gave the government another two minutes and that's why I didn't interrupt it again. I appreciate the PS, too. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The current state of the Nation is myopic. in this legislative session, turbulent but challenging, we saw the unpublished alliance that talks more about politics and the real problems of people and fewer numbers. This reality only reinforces the will of citizens who want more party dialogue and fewer absolute majority, but also shows that a new project of society is desired and needed, thought of for the 21st century. However, it is the opposite that prevails. For all the ideological quadrants present in this House, an infinite consumption economy is still being promoted in an ecological system of finite resources, the 'objectification' of the remaining animals and ecosystems, as well as competition and aggression to the detriment of cooperation and non-violence. But myopia takes care. The function of the State in the nation cannot be blind to the public interest. We continue to find that despite some positive steps the State is still the great promoter of the private sector, tirelessly financing through public-private partnerships in various areas. Investment in education, energy system, water supply, social security services and national health services must be strengthened so that they are truly sustainable and public. We must prioritize everyone's resources for the good of all and not just for some. A State of constant ethics should also be strengthened by public service, promoting transparency and cut-off in luxury and ancillary expenditure. The function of the State is lacking. The Nation is the state of the environment in which we live and myopia wipes out our survival. We continue to deny that the biggest current crisis is climate change. Everything is seen and discussed in a utilitarian and financial prism when the changes necessary for the regeneration of ecosystems do not go by expanding the economy to the sea, by maintaining an agrotoxic-based agriculture, by denying the impact of animal production on greenhouse gas emissions, by maintaining the illusion that fossil fuels are an opportunity for business, by financing the intensive agricultural sector that pollutes soils and water resources, by maintaining a failed and obsolete National dam plan, by promoting the eucalyptusization of the country to the detriment of our native forest, by failing to understand that the environment is the basis of the economy and not the reverse. We need to live up to our survival as civilization. And as a people politically divergent but socially and culturally, we did not show, through a political voice, what unites us in the European project. We continue to submit to the impractical solutions presented by the Excel technocrats, not only with regard to a strict and blind European budgetary policy but also with regard to the structural causes of refugee migration. The solution is that we renew European democracy and not deepen a pyramidal structure of technocrats. A society of nations for citizens is lacking. Finally, the Nation is the state of our conscience. And this consciousness cannot be blind to existing ideologies. We need to strengthen consensus through civic and inter-party dialogue and consciously promote non-violence by eradicating racism, sexism, speciesism, all manifestations of terrorism, homophobia and xenophobia. In short: eradicating all forms of discrimination that pollute our culture. The state of the nation is thus the state of our consciences and these are changing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u254	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u255	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, these evolving consciences call for a policy of non-violent causes that outlines a project of truly sustainable society, where people, animals and ecosystems can, together, live in harmony and balance. Summary: utopias missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u256	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate in the state of the nation is still a bit strange, especially because of what has come from the benches on the right. The gentlemen. Members were all in the afternoon trying to do an imaginary exercise that we are not in 2016 and we are not discussing the state of the nation at the end of seven months of the current government. But that is the assessment we have to make, in order to be able to ask whether today there are conditions for us to speak on a new journey in Portugal and whether there are conditions, especially today, to ask ourselves what role the Government and the Assembly of the Republic must play in the face of everything that is happening in Europe. Europe lives two absolutely extraordinary moments in its history, which require political leaders, from left to right, to be aware that what matters in this case is not the good students who follow the entire European Union card, who can impose cruelty on the Portuguese, leaving an unprecedented social crisis in Europe, and to whom the right has said: «Here we are to go beyond the troika, to do more than we want». But don't worry! — it is this same right that applies this income, which impoverishs the country, increases unemployment, increases emigration and decreases investment in Portugal, which today says « we agree ». And it is good to remember here that it was Passos Coelho that, on 16 May, before the PPE leader's statements that there was a need for maximum sanctions to the non-compliant countries, he said: « we agree». [[P.S.'s applause.]] And Maria Luís Albuquerque, this week, said: "Yes, sir, there would be no sanctions! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of whether we are penalizing the deficit in one tenth. It is a question of whether when we are talking about European sanctions, of the fear of countries which, in Europe, consider themselves to be non-compliant, we are not humiliating the peoples of these countries. It is important to know whether, with this, we are not saying that the sacrifices that the Portuguese have made over the years are not too painful to accept now not to consider that these sanctions to Portugal are immoral, cruel and, above all, unjust. That is why I believe that this afternoon the position of the right here, in this debate of the State of the Nation, was not to try to find what seems essential in the days ahead and that it is a response within the European Union to the various crises that have arisen. Europe has not been able to react to the refugee crisis or the public debt deficit crisis unless it is a response to closing borders or greater austerity and impoverishment of peoples. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in today's nation state what is required is whether or not Portugal is being defended in European institutions by this government. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the answer seems clear in the days ahead. It doesn't matter if we're talking about one or more tenths, it's interesting that we're talking about people and the need for better living conditions for these people. That is why the debate that has to be held in the coming days — and I take advantage of the debate by the nation state to underline the change in government's attitude towards Europe — should not be to defend its party or the party that is in government, it should not be to defend government policies but rather to defend what must be a project of cohesion and solidarity in Europe, which requires that we all be more united and attentive today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The state of the nation also assesses how we can defend Portugal in Europe. I believe that after what we have seen in recent times, either with the referendum in the United Kingdom or with this systematic threat from the countries of the north over the south to punish, to punish those who have suffered the most from austerity policies, it is necessary to prove that an alternative path is possible, able to reconcile the rigor of public accounts with the social responses that the country requires, without forgetting the need to create more investment and more employment in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u258	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : Seven months after this government has taken possession, the country is in fact worse and the lives of people are no better. [[PS protests.]] Portugal has lost confidence. Portugal slowed down the growth rate of the economy. Even the business investment, Prime Minister, is defining, contrary to what you have said here and we will have the opportunity to demonstrate. Portugal has lost employment; Portugal has slowed exports; Portugal is more exposed to risks and uncertainties and Portugal has a very clear political circumstance: the Socialist Party "syrilized". It is true that with two differences: in Portugal, we have a Portuguese Cypriots different from the original, because, unlike this, he has never won legislative elections and because, unlike the original, which fought to the extreme right, the Portuguese Cypriots fought - to the extreme left. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u260	This Government, Mr and Mr. Members, who emerged not from the will of the people but from the will of the parliamentarians,... [[PS and BE protests.]] ... has, however, all the conditions to govern: it has a parliamentary majority that supports it, has the internal and external institutional cooperation of all entities and has a political programme that has not been rejected, which is a coalition pact that unites the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the Left Block. It is also true that Mr. Prime Minister — a fool! — it has already been boasted: 'it is management, but it works'! Only the question was not whether or not management was working, although it was of course an important issue, because that was the government's assumption, the question that concerns Portugal is that the fact that management works brings a greater problem to Portugal, which are the consequences of governance supported by this parliamentary management. It is that the success of a country and a government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the decisions that are taken, they are not the assumptions of governance, they are the decisions and the effect they have, and the problem, Mr President. Members, it is only to govern that is not'management'. That's a little bit! To rule is not to survive. That's a little bit! To govern is to change the situation of the country and to have a positive effect on the lives of people, families and businesses. [[PSD applause.]] To govern is to have results, and it does not well govern those who revert reforms even before they are patient to be able to verify their effects. They did not listen to the Minister of Finance. Governance is not to prevent investors from putting their capital here to promote economic growth and job creation. See what they have done to companies and to the attractiveness of investment with the reversal of IRC reform — a word they have given and a word they have not fulfilled — a word that leads to the lives of people with more unemployment and less investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u262	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the financial area there is confusion. The Prime Minister says that it is all right, the Minister of Finance says that it is necessary to review the macroeconomic scenario of the Budget because its goals are unattainable. You have to understand! It is very important that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance do not understand the essentials of the implementation of the budgetary policy. And see also what the government's position has been on a matter relevant to our financial system, which is the situation of the General Deposit Box. The Government, and the Minister for Finance in particular, has been acting as a pyroman who is sending news to penguins for social communication, which is bringing the clarification of the restructuring plan that is working in the General Deposit Box not in Parliament but through trade unions, and it was through a meeting with the unions that we learned that the dismissal of 2500 people is on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u263	There's no dismissal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u264	And in social policies, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? The ideological complex on the radical left is, in fact, very alive and very active. In education, health, social support and the work of private institutions of social solidarity, the way of government has a unique meaning.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u265	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u266	I'm done now, Mr. President. More and more statistics, more and more mistrust of the capacity and contribution of the institutions of society. The signs given to society and the economy are clear: the directionism and the statisation of the economy and public services is back. This is the most statisticating government in the post-PREC, because the Left Block and the PCP require...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u267	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u268	...and the Socialist Party wants and chooses the policies proposed by the Communist Party and the Block of Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u269	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u270	That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by saying that the state of the nation is as follows: the Socialist Party did not lay a wall down,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u271	You really have to conclude, Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u272	... the Socialist Party has jumped the wall to the side there, it must assume this responsibility, it must take the consequences of the choice and choices that only make it responsible for it before the Portuguese. [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] Mr. Prime Minister laughs, but unfortunately the bill will be the Portuguese people who will have to pay in the future. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u273	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the first speech of the PSD, we heard Mr. ex-Minister of Defence Aguiar Branco say that he respected Parliament very much, but fortunately came soon after the parliamentary leader to restore the truth. The PSD does not respect Parliament, because if it respected Parliament it would not say the phrase that has just been said here and that it is a shame for any Member of Parliament, i.e. that this government is here because the Members, and not the people, wanted it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Deputies, I was hoping you'd already had a few months to learn the rudiments of representative democracy, but I see you're not. What the PSD did not lose was also the shame, because Mr Aguiar Branco came here a little while ago that in last year, in the debate of the State of the Nation, we discussed whether the economy would grow even more, whether it would increase employment, that is, if the Eldorado would be even better than the propaganda of the PSD said it was. Mr President, today we are here trying to deal with a country that is much worse than you were saying, which was masked by your propaganda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Last summer, you did not leave an economy to accelerate growth; last year, in July, when we discussed the state of the nation here, you hid the fact that the economy is in strong slowdown and that for the first time during the summer, unemployment has increased and job creation has been negative. But worse than everything, sirs. Members, irresponsiblely, have hidden all the problems of the financial sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] In fact, we are used to discard the PSD, but the record of discharge that has revealed in recent times, especially in the financial sector, that neither I confess, and I think that no one was waiting, because it is too much. In July last year, when we discussed the Eldorado propaganda of the country, the European Commission opened an in-depth investigation to BANIF. And what was this government's finance minister doing? He hid from the Portuguese and said: "It's all right." [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u275	And what did the former Prime Minister say: « Concerned about the financial sector? Only with Box, that doesn't return the 900 million. Strangely enough, no one understands how. ’ [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, if you want to speak of facts and truths, remember the facts and the truth that you have hidden in the last debate about the state of the nation. And, Mr Deputies, on the General Deposit Box and Banif, you were four years old without doing anything about Banif! There was a 59-page letter from the European Commission calling the former government irresponsible for nothing...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u276	It's a lie! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u277	...and do you dare to say here that the responsibility of BANIF is ours, Mr? Oh, my God! Have shame on your face! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u278	It's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u279	And about the General Deposit Box, a public bank that was subcapitalized in 2012 did nothing to invest in an asset that is all of us. But by the way, the PSD probably wanted that to deteriorate so much that it would become someone else's. So, honourable Member, no one here has deteriorated anything! As for that story of the «just don't spoil», not Mr, we are trying to raise and raise the country that was in a much more miserable state, in employment, in the economy, in investment and in the financial sector, than your propaganda said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u280	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr.ase Sr. Members : We have tried to hold this debate on the state of the nation from the real state of the nation. We have a country that remains deeply affected by serious structural problems resulting from 40 years of right-wing policy, particularly aggravated by the previous PSD/CDS government, and we have done this debate here bringing our perspective on responding to these structural problems of the country, on the basis of the alternative policy we propose, with the solutions to economic, social, educational problems, social security, health, productive sectors, the strategic sectors of the country, and also with the political response that is required for all this to be achieved. We have tried to do this debate on the basis of solutions to the problems of the country, which we have been fighting for and which we continue to beat. We regret that during this debate, particularly on the part of the PSD and the CDS, it has been precisely the opposite, because not only do they take responsibility for the grave situation in which the country is located, but they also try to pass on to others the responsibility they have in the country situation, not contributing to a solution to solve these problems that have been brought here. [[PCP and PS applause.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight this aspect, because it is important: we have heard today the PSD parliamentary leader repeat the same anti-democratic views with which they have been positioned since the October 4 elections. Mr. Luís Montenegro, a political solution resulting from the expression of the will of the people in the composition of the Assembly of the Republic is a legitimate solution because legitimate are not only the solutions that allow you and the CDS to reach power. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say this: we have tried to bring to this debate the solutions we have to the problems of the country, regardless of whether we know that not all the conditions are met so that they can be achieved. [[h!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u282	And we also know that what costs the PSD and CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u283	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u284	I shall conclude, Mr President, by asking for the same tolerance as the previous speakers had. In fact, we have sought to bring solutions here knowing that much more needs to be achieved, but we also know that this is the way we are going to take. And as far as the ladies are concerned. Members of the PSD and the CDS, in particular Mr Aguiar Branco, have forgotten, in relation to TAP, this composition of the Assembly of the Republic that allowed to stop the privatisation that you wanted to do completely, even though you did not allow the proposal presented by the CFP to be implemented,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u285	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u286	... and, Mr Aguiar Branco, let us know that, in relation to the General Deposit Box, instead of proposing committees of inquiry aimed at liquidating the General Deposit Box, we will continue to beat ourselves so that recapitalisation is made in favour of strengthening the public bank, avoiding redundancies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u287	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u288	In conclusion, Mr President, I would also like to say the following: we know that what costs the PSD and the CDS is that the influence of the PCP in this composition of the Assembly of the Republic has allowed, against the will of the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u289	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u290	... return wages, pensions and overtax, allowed you to return holidays, rest at 35 hours, pension supplements,... [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u291	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u292	...supporting the unemployed, ensuring the freeness of school textbooks and will allow, still today, against your will, to improve the rules of supported income... [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u293	Mr President, I ask you to conclude that your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u294	...to guarantee people who live in better living conditions in social neighborhoods. It's against your will, sir. [[PCP and PS applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u295	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The solemn moment of the debate of the State of the Nation, closing the parliamentary calendar, is not, however, a timetable, a time of accountability, and it is effectively this provision of accounts that allows us to identify and separate the waters throughout this afternoon. This debate has shown a number of things. First, he demonstrated who is, in 2016, with his eyes placed in the future and committed to improving the quality of life of the Portuguese and who continues to reside in 2015, trying to rewrite what he did and to try to erase what he said during that year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD and the CDS have not yet realized why they have lost the majority of parliament, they have not realized that the priority is now given to dignity, it is given to the defense of the social state, it is given to the defense of the Constitution, it is given to those who want to have a different voice in Europe and to those who want to build a Europe other than that which we have known. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also a debate that reveals the difference between those in Europe, in fact, who are committed to having a defense of the Portuguese voice and who hide with some difficulty that expected Europe to be undoing the new path that has been traced and which, unfortunately, does not see their loyalty of other times rewarded, thus appearing in this debate without debate, without content and without sufficient arguments to show that it has indeed a different direction for the country. There is a need for more serious parliamentary debate; we need an opposition which seriously faces and analyses the problems facing the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Trying to charge the current government with responsibility for its own acts of governance, trying to make what went wrong, is not serious and is certainly not patriotic at the time when we all have to mobilize ourselves for the defence of national interest, in a particularly difficult and demanding European context. But this is also a debate that reveals something else, reveals that, in this European framework, Portuguese reality is particularly stable. In spite of all the promises, in fact, better said, all the expectations that the right had — first, there would be no agreement, then there would be no government, then there would be no Budget, then there would be no reform plan — unfortunately all this happened. Unfortunately, Portugal is not one of those European countries that has difficulties with its parliamentary framework, it is not one of those European countries where government cannot be formed, it is not one of those European countries where extremism grows, it is not one of those European countries that has difficulties and instability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is a stable country, with a stable government, with a responsible majority and a path to the future. But this debate has revealed yet another thing, and here we have come to account: it has revealed what has been done in seven months. In seven months, in fact, we have done a lot, and it is true that there has been a reversal of previous policies. You know why? The previous policies were more political. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They were policies rejected by the majority of voters, they were policies in which the Portuguese did not turn around, they did not reveal themselves and they did not want to review themselves. In education, the public school has finally been re-valorized, at the end of four years, placing the resources that are needed, ensuring school textbooks for all, ensuring a path that puts the creation of equal opportunities as the priority of any decent education policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The re-evaluation of science, which is our destiny, is our future, is the qualification, is the competitive advantage of the country, has been back on the agenda and is returning to what are priorities of the current government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The value of people's income was valued, the value of what is the income available, with the replacement of wages, with the end of the overtax, with the return of dignity to pensioners and the end of the fear that pensioners had that their dignity would not be respected, with the value of the social rate in electricity. There was an end to the forgetfulness of culture, as if it were a smaller area but which must truly be as central public policy as the others. Finally, measures have been taken in the area of housing, such as those we will shortly adopt, as Mr. João Oliveira said, and the appreciation of urban rehabilitation at the same time as a differentiated factor in what we want our country to be, and also the protection of homes of household against penhoras, a requirement of basic, elementary dignity, which has so long been out of role. But we do not forget the economy, and therefore we also revitalize the administrative modernization and the Simplex reappeared in 2016, after four years hidden in a cave in the Rue Professor Gomes Teixeira. Today we have an ambitious programme that creates confidence in companies, because it shows them that it is worth investing, that they will not face bureaucratic costs and that we have a dynamized economy. It saves that which is also being recapitalized; it saves that which is also vitalized with Startup Portugal. Therefore, measures are not lacking and it is only a sectarian will to want to bring to a debate about the state of the nation not what happens but what they would like to be happening to prove your arguments. It is, in fact, a demonstration of unbiased opposition. But it is also important not to forget that these values mean the way we look at our partners in our society, and much has been said about employment and measures in the field of employment. But, curiously, on the right hand side, we can only hear soeze attacks on the unions, which is a pillar of the democratic rule of law, which is the mobilization and organisational capacity of workers to defend their rights, something which this majority is sure to value and will continue to value. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] And that is why we have a national minimum wage, which was the subject of an increase. That is why we reject national holidays and that is why collective bargaining is not just a timetable, it is truly a place to set public policies and objectives for the country. Finally, because this accountability also counts, fundamental rights are part of our agenda. We answered the dignity of women humiliated in a law of IVG (voluntary termination of pregnancy), which was not acceptable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have ensured adoption for all, we recognize all families as equal and we are also ensuring that access to WFP (assisted drug procreation) is not made in discriminatory terms. But all this, even if all the arquits of the misfortune say the opposite, is done simultaneously and in a context where the path of budgetary consolidation and the goals for this year continue to be fulfilled. Even today, in line with the forecast, we confirm that 1. the quarter ran as we expected, better than your 1st. the quarter of 2015, confirmed by the European Commission itself. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] So let's not fool those who look at this data looking for security...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u297	Mr. Deputies, it's been too long. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u298	Let us look, yes, at them with the reality they translate. And what do you translate? Finally, there is a clear objective in this debate: there is a difference between those who want a decent Portugal for all, who has hope, and who, in a framework of a Europe particularly distressed by difficulties, from the referendum in the United Kingdom to the refugee crisis, to the extremisms that surround us both inside and outside the European Union —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u299	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u300	...I shall conclude, Mr President — we certainly cannot join the misunderstanding that we would create with our citizens if we were not able to affirm our voice with all clarity, being able to effectively turn the page, because we must also turn the page in Europe and that is what the current government and this majority are also committed to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u301	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u302	I conclude, Mr President, by leaving a note: no one said it was easy, no one said it all improves one day for the other, only those who believe in redemption authority can believe in a fairy tale like this. The work is hard, the path will be hard, but we are available to do so, because, quoting Manuel Alegre, « It is possible to walk without looking at the floor/ it is possible to live without being trailed. (...) It is possible to live differently. / (... ) It is possible to live standing. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u303	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first issue of this debate concerned the significance and consequences of the European Commission's failure to meet budgetary targets between 2013 and 2015. This failure is evidence: in every year, from 2011 to 2015, the objectives proclaimed were not met. [[PSD protests.]] And the reason is simple: blind austerity, which sacrifices the economy and people's rights, does not, rather, solve budgetary difficulties. Only with growth can robust and lasting fiscal consolidation be achieved. The verification of today's failure by the European Commission, regarding 2013 / 2015, therefore gives reason to all those who, like this government, maintain that policy change is necessary, respecting the Constitution and relieving the burden on people and the economy in order to rebalance public accounts. The Government disagrees, however, with the idea that there was no effective effort in the recent past for budgetary consolidation, and disagrees for two reasons: firstly, only by political myth can one ignore the enormous sacrifices made by the entire Portuguese population in the years of adjustment; secondly, it is necessary to abandon the policy of cuts in incomes and attacks on investment and not pursue it with more penalties, which, in addition to being unjust, would be absurd and counterproductive. In fact, what would be the point of applying measures based on the assessment of the results of a government and a policy that, by the voter's will, have ended in 2016?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u305	It's so high!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u306	In interaction with the European institutions, this Government has argued that there is no reason for Portugal to be sanctioned in any way. Being sure that the results were beyond what was intended,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u307	Which ones? The PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u308	...the effort of all to achieve them was enormous and must be recognized. by doing so, the Government defends the national interest, to which, of course, subordinates the circumstances and tactical games of internal policy. Unfortunately, this has not been the behavior of the opposition. As once again, in this debate, the right has been shown to rule out its own responsibilities and the largest party in the opposition does not hesitate to try to take advantage of the country's difficulties in obtaining domestic policy gains. However, the leadership of the PSD is very mistaken if you think that it will win more than one grain of credibility. The people know how to treat those who seem to depend on their particular political success of the country's failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second issue of this debate was the economic agenda: how to respond to the uncertainties of the European and international economy, how to minimize the effects of the crises experienced by some of our partners, how to take advantage of the growth opportunities available to us. Also in the answer to this question, the debate made clear a deep division between the Government and the parliamentary majority, on the one hand, and the opposition on the other. The Government has presented and defended its measures: regulation of the banking sector for the financing of the productive economy; acceleration of Portugal 2020; the new Simplex; support for the capitalisation of companies; diversification of export markets; and so many others. The opposition was characterized by a lack of appearance: in four hours of debate, no idea presented. [[False!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u309	No proposals, no measures, no ideas! Nothing! [[False!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u310	A lot of obsession with the supposed layoffs of the General Deposit Box that will not exist. Much of the existential anxiety of the PSD with the health of the PCP and the meteorology of Greece and an incomprehensible defense by the CDS of the political manipulation of statistics on public accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u311	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u312	But a very small idea that would be for the country's economic agenda will look for it in vain, because it simply does not exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u313	I had the written speech, he wrote it last night!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u314	It is that the forces placed on the right in this Chamber only have to propose the continuation of the policies for reducing rights, cutting income, weakening public services and crushing domestic demand which continued with such disastrous results in their previous governance. No wonder! If the protagonists are the same, how could the ideas be different? Oh, my God! [[Look who's talking!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u315	He went to the bay looking for an intervention 10 years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u316	The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is today that Portugal is one of the countries of Europe with a better social climate, greater political stability and better cooperation between all the sovereign bodies. He passed the state of exception and returned to constitutional normality. Faces, indeed, many difficulties, conjuncural and structural, and needs to be united in front of them. Unity does not mean, of course, unanimity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u317	Not even unique!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u318	The unity we need is the one founded on democratic debate and the pursuit of national interest. We defend the national interest by maintaining the consensus that strengthens the Portuguese position in the European framework and does not break that consensus to try to take advantage of internal policy. We defend the national interest, discussing the solutions that revive the Portuguese economy and state and not playing the very dangerous game of expecting partisan gains from the country's losses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No one, whether in the government or outside it, is in support of the government or the opposition, should be considered to be relieved of this responsibility to contribute to the diversity that characterizes Parliament for unity in defence of national interest. The national interest is to combine economic growth, financial stabilization and budgetary consolidation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's what we need. And that's what we're gonna get. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u319	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the essential point of our agenda today, the debate on the state of the nation. I thank the members of the Government and in particular the Prime Minister for your presence. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the voting period is followed, but before, and while the services are preparing the system for the quorum verification, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on the entry of the dossier. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u320	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau and were admitted: Bill No. 279 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors, approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 417 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a national study on child labour ( NAP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 419 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 139 / 2010 on accidents with agricultural tractors and prepares a report on their compliance ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 420 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen investment in dredging works in national ports, particularly in the port of Póvoa Varzim and Vila do Conde ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 422 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government present a long-term solution to ensure security in the port of Póvoa of Varzim and a work priority plan at fishing ports across the country ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 423 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the collective dismissal process in the New Bank and safeguarding rights and jobs ( CFP ), 424 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement urgent measures to enable difficulties in training for persons with disabilities and disabilities ( BE ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 425 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of legislative, monitoring, support and training measures with a view to drastically reducing the weakness with tractors ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 426 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the airport of Beja as an instrument for the development of the region ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 427 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to update the Special Realisation Programme — PER(BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 428 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake commitments with the timing of the construction and qualification of the road network of the Beja district, depending on the needs of the population and economic agents of the region ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] Mr Bruno Dias, the CFP, and Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, the PS, together with 222 members of the PS, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 112 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemnation and regret for the attacks in Iraq, Bangladesh and Saudi Arabia ( PS ), which will be read by the Secretary, Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last July 3rd, the Baghdad shopping area was shaken by the explosion of a car trapped, at a time when hundreds of people were on the street and marked the culmination of Ramadan. Victiming more than 250 people and leaving more than two hundred wounded, the attack, the worst for several years in Iraq, was claimed by Daesh, seeking to reach innocent civilian populations at a time when it gives ground to the Iraqi authorities in places they have been occupying militarily. On the eve of the day in Dacca, Bangladesh, a hostage-taking also associated with Daesh has given life to numerous people of various nationalities who were in a restaurant in that city. Days later, in the city of Medina, a place of pilgrimage of Islam, and in other places of Saudi Arabia, where thousands of people flocked to mark the end of Ramadan, a new sequence of attacks broke the celebration of a fundamental moment of religious celebrations, despite the worst avoidance of its impact. This new sequence of attacks confronts us again with a phenomenon of terrorism that victimizes all those who face it and if they do not subject it, regardless of the social class, nationality, religious belief or origin, and without any respect for solemn and symbolic moments of the religious beliefs of the victims. It is therefore urgent to continue to reflect on how to respond by combating its causes (political, economic and social), rejecting fundamentalism, promoting peace, ensuring the defence and affirmation of the values of freedom and democracy and offering judicial cooperation and between security forces for its prevention and eradication. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its unequivocal and vehement condemnation of the attacks committed in Baghdad, Dacca and in several cities of Saudi Arabia and expresses the feelings of its deep sorrow to the families of the victims and to all the target peoples of the attacks. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u323	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 412 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Brazil ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 413 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Move of the President of the Republic to the United States of America ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 421 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to France ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u324	As long as he swallows the bowl...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u325	We will move on to the general vote on Bill No 195 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, amending the sole parental leave of the father ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u326	Mr President, I would like to inform the Bureau that, on this vote, the Left Block will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u327	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 318 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Transfer from the management of the heritage of the Côa Valley to the Ministry of Culture and extinction of the Côa Parque Foundation ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 167 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the Port Metro Line to the Trofa, Gondomar and Vila d’ Este ( Vila Nova de Gaia ) ( PCP ) ( amended Commission text ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u328	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u329	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u330	Mr President, it was to inform you that, on this vote, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u331	Be registered. Mr. Hélder Amaral, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u332	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to say that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u333	It's also registered. We then proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 322 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish an autonomous CAE code for the logistics sector ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 359 / XIII ( 1 ) will follow. ( a ) — Evaluation of the special process for the Revitalisation of companies and individuals ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 387 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Public outreach campaign for the solidarity complement for the elderly ( BE ). At the request of the PSD, we shall break down the vote on point 4 of the remaining points. We shall vote on point 4. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] We now vote points 1, 2, 3 and 5. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 383 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen and invest in the Hospital Santa Luzia de Elvas ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 404 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends requalification and consolidation of health care at the Hospital de Santa Luzia in Elvas ( PCP ). We shall first vote at the request of the PS, point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the Member of the PS Luís Testa and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now vote points 2, 3, 4 and 5. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] On the same subject, we shall vote on draft resolution No 405 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen and consolidate the Hospital de Santa Luzia in Elvas ( PS ). We shall first vote at the request of the CFP, point 4. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP.]] The vote on points 1, 2 and 3 shall follow. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 301 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Effective compliance with the recognition of fibromyalgia and the rights of fibromyalgia patients ( PCP ). At the request of the PS, we shall first vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and with abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now vote points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 407 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to protect and support people with fibromyalgia ( BE ). At the request of the PS, we first vote points 1, 2 and 3. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now vote points 4 and 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] Mrs. Members follow the general vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein. 122 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the lease scheme supported for greater social justice — First amendment to Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 December ( BE) and 108 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspends the application of the supported lease scheme ( Law No 81 / 2014 of 19 September ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote for the plenary of the Commission's indexary votes on this matter. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the said replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein. 122 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 108 / XIII ( 1. ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes, stand up, and P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u334	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u335	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u336	Mr President, to inform you that the CFP Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u337	Mrs Emília Santos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u338	Mr President, to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will also present an oral vote on the subject we have voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u339	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u340	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to inform you that we are going to make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u341	Has Mr Pedro Soares asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u342	Mr President, it is to make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u343	Mrs. Helena Roseta asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u344	Yes, Mr President, I have also asked for the same word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u345	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. First, we shall vote on the opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will do in favour of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two opinions. With regard to the first one, the request of the Cable Section of the Court of the Comarca de Braga, Local Court, Case No. 785 / 15.OT8BCL, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Domingos Pereira ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings under the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u347	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Secretary, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u348	The second opinion, the request of 1. the Labour Section of the Court of Lisbon, Central Court, Case No. 24519 / 15.OT8 LSB, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Rui Riso ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u349	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then turn to oral voting statements, which, as you know, have time limits. Mrs Paula Santos from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this statement of vote, we would like to address a first word to all the residents of all the social districts, particularly those present here,... [[PCP applause.]] ... that for years and years and years they fought and resisted for the supported income regime to be more fair and to meet their interests and demands. It was now possible for the Assembly of the Republic to adopt an amendment to the income regime, also due to decisive intervention by the CFP. We remember that this was possible because we presented the initiatives, organised the debates, put forward proposals and intervened so that, in fact, the supported income regime would no longer be that unfair regime that penalized the residents. With our intervention, it was possible to approve a set of proposals, such as, for example, that autonomous regions and authorities could have their own regulations; that gross income should be no longer considered and that net income should be considered; that the effort rate should be reduced; that deductions should be increased in the calculation of the income value, such as dependent deductions, for the elderly and for single-parent families; and that a set of quite penalizing mechanisms should be put to the residents, who would lead to eviction. Finally, with your struggle and with our intervention, we have been able to take a significant step and respect the right to housing by the residents. [[PCP applause.]] However, we cannot fail to say that we believe that we should have gone even further. The PCP presented proposals in the sense of a greater reduction in the income value, but it was not possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u351	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u352	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, I would like to leave here our commitment that we will follow and intervene, like the residents, who have never lowered their arms, were resistant and are here today. They can count on us, PCP, so that indeed the right to housing at affordable costs is a reality. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u353	Mr Pedro Soares, from BE, has the floor for a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the residents of the social neighbourhoods present here and also all those, about 100 000 throughout the country, who will precisely be subject to this new legislation on supported lease. It is entirely fair and this new legislation stems from the many struggles that, over recent years, the residents of the social neighborhoods have triggered in their places, in their cities, in their municipalities. I would also like to greet all the Members of the Left Block, the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Greens who have committed themselves and contributed to the realization of this review of the law and would also like to leave a special greeting to Mrs Helena Roseta, who coordinated the review working group of this law. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP, The Greens and the PAN.]] It is a great victory for the residents of the social neighborhoods, it is a great victory for all those who defend the constitutional design of the right to housing for all but also for all those who oppose the stigmatization of the residents of the social neighborhoods. We want all Portuguese to be equal and have the possibility of access to housing with dignity, under all conditions, and it is precisely this regime that will be able to take a step in this direction. The struggle will continue, because now we have to fight for the rehabilitation of social neighbourhoods, for the improvement of living conditions. [[Congratulations from the BE, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u355	For a statement of vote, Mrs Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u356	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank Mr Pedro Soares for his words, but he wanted to say that we were only able to make this law in so little time because we had at least a decade of struggle in the social neighborhoods throughout the country and many attempts to change the law here in Parliament. There were only 27 legislative initiatives between 2011 and 2015. That is why we have achieved, with all this backlog of work, with the contributions of all the parties, with the initiatives of the PCP and the Block, which have taken the lead, and with the work we have done in the working group with all the parties—even those who voted against have made their contribution. That's the only way it was possible. Mr President, on 29 January, the Prime Minister said in this House that he committed himself, in relation to the income supported, on two issues: income being calculated on the basis of net income rather than gross income, because it is the net income that people have, and, secondly, that no eviction could be made in any way and that people had to be protected. Mr Prime Minister has committed himself, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has fulfilled, with the support of the other parties. So it remains to point out that this is how the laws should be made. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u357	You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, just to greet also the residents of the social districts, who demanded — it is so, they demanded — that the Assembly of the Republic make such a law and alter profound injustices in the law of supported income which could not be behaved by people. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic did a job, which was its duty to do, in the sense that, in particular, the calculation of the value of the income was done according to the net income rather than the gross income and that it would end with that clearance facility, which was indeed an absolute shame, and was also reduced — it could have been more, but this too is a path that is going to be made — the rate of effort. I believe that reality will prove the justice of the amendment of this law and, fundamentally — that is what I would like to stress — this was done with the great demand of the people, in particular, who are the object, let us say so, the real experience of the laws that are made here in the Assembly of the Republic. It is this struggle that I would very much like to value, because it is worth fighting. It's always worth fighting. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u359	Finally, Mrs Emília Santos has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I take advantage of them to greet them, as well as the residents of the social neighbourhoods who have followed us throughout this process and who are here today in the galleries. I also wanted to say that the PSD, although considering that this supported income law is, in fact, very recent and still has a whole way to go, considers that we are not the owners of the truth and has been next to this process because it is a responsible party, thus supporting some changes that we believe have contributed to better conforming the law to the reality felt. I leave here only a few of the amendments with which we, PSD, agreed in particular with the referral of waste target aggregates and with effective shortage for legal solutions for access to housing ; we also agreed with the establishment of a minimum period of three working days for untitled occupation and the possibility of revision of the value of income when there is a change of income, among others, which are actually formed in their own place. However, we voted against other proposals because they do not correspond to our convictions, and I give only two examples: the first is because the changes that define net income as the basis of income calculation distort and contradict the system created in 2010 by the Minister Vieira da Silva, through the law of condition of resources, which uniformizes precisely the reference base of citizens' income. A second example, Mr President, and to conclude, is because we are convinced that families with lower incomes will be penalized because, in these cases, there will be income increases and we are sure that the biggest beneficiaries of these changes are precisely families with incomes above € 1500. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the PSD is increasingly convinced that, in fact, the reform we did, the reform made by the previous majority, was virtuous, fair and efficient. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-07.u361	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our work today is completed. The next session will take place on 20 July, Wednesday, at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: point one, assessment of the Ombudsman's Annual Report 2015; point two, assessment of the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ) ; point three, re-evaluation of the Assembly Decree No 27/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates access to the pregnancy of substitution by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( production of assisted medicinal products ), point 4, discussion of the Government's report on Portugal's participation in the construction process of the European Union for the year 2015, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( b ). the Act No 43 / 2006 of 25 August with the amendments made by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May ( on the monitoring, assessment and pronunciation of Portuguese participation in the construction process of the European Union ), with draft resolution No 418 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2015 ( CAE ) The session will continue at 3 p.m. with elections for independent external entities as the first point; the second point is the examination of petition No 526 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Luliia Voroshylova and others, requesting support for the rehabilitation of Ukrainian military; the third point is the debate of petition No 542/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Committee of Users of the Public Services of the Santarém Council, requesting more professionals at Santarém Hospital and Health Centres, the defense of maternity at Santarém Hospital and against the loss of services and the articulation of quality and proximity health care, the fourth point is the assessment of petition No 32 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), requesting a fair retirement scheme for teachers ; the fifth point is the debate on petition No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). (a ) — Submitted by Mary of Lurdes of Jesus Leite Ribeiro and others, requesting the defense of the Hospital de Guimarães and all its services and requiring dignified conditions of emergency assistance; from the sixth point is the assessment of petition No 519 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Maxipet Lda. and represented by Luís Guilherme, requesting the reduction to the minimum rate of VAT applicable on pet food; of the seventh point is the discussion of petition No 89 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by André Pimpão Graveto Araújo and others, requesting the amendment of existing legislation on animal traction vehicles in order to prohibit their movement in public; from the eighth point is the examination of petition No 510 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the ANIMAL Association and represented by Rita Isabel Duarte Silva, requesting that the Assembly of the Republic legisle not be given subsidies and public support to all and any Tauromachic activity; from the ninth point there is the discussion of petition No 63 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Submitted by Liliana Maria Ferreira Vieira Escalhão, requesting the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic in order to prevent the Lisbon Commercial Atteneu from being sold. There will be regular votes at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 50 minutes.]]
