ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. We will begin the work of this plenary meeting on Tuesday, 22 March 2016. Unfortunately, we have introduced a first point on the agenda this morning. This is the assessment of vote No 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) — Condemnation and regret for the terrorist attacks in Brussels for which each parliamentary group, and also the NAP, will have two minutes to intervene. First, however, I report that I took the initiative in the morning to send to Mr. Ambassador of the Kingdom of Belgium, who is present at the sitting, and to the Presidents of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Belgium the following message: « It was with great dismay that I became aware of the tragic attacks this morning in the city of Brussels. on a day that they thought they were like so many others, they lost the lives of dozens of citizens. The attacks this morning challenge our values and our model of society based on respect for freedom, democracy and fundamental rights. Barbaric attacks that deserve our absolute condemnation. Our thoughts are with the families of the victims, to whom we address the manifestation of our sense of regret. On my behalf, and on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I extend my condolences to the Belgian State and people through you.' This was the message I sent in the morning. In any case, it was agreed between the parliamentary groups that we would proceed to the vote. First of all, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our feelings and solidarity are today with the people of Brussels and, in particular, with the victims' family. Terrorist attacks are barbaric acts of inhuman savagery. Surely they are, and that is why they deserve our unconditional repudiation. But they're more than that. The weapon of terror always has direct targets which, through the infection of fear, aims to achieve. These targets are us, our freedom, our tolerance, our respect for each other and for the difference, our democratic model of society. It is therefore essential that we all know today how to defend firmly the values that they want to draw from us, convincingly affirming that we are free men and women and we want to remain free. Yes, we believe in equality in difference, that only democratic societies can promote and preserve. Yes, we believe and cultivate gender equality, a sine qua condition not for true respect for human rights. Yes, we defend the freedoms of expression and movement and the right of everyone to choose their life plan, according to their ambitions. Yes, we are for the intransigent respect of religious freedoms, beliefs and ideologies. And, yes, we oppose all sorts of fundamentalisms and totalitarianism and the culture of the single thought. We will be determined to fight and severely punish those responsible for these inhumane attacks, but we will not yield to the purpose of letting these values be undermined. Our civilization has gone through a lot and suffered a lot to build them. We have a duty to know how to defend and pass this message to those who seek to destroy them. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u3	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are of condolences to the families of the victims, the Belgian people, the citizens of Brussels, where today, in the heart of Europe, once again, at the home of what we want a project of peace, prosperity and democracy, we again face terrorism. Unfortunately, it becomes too frequent. It becomes so often that a social network like Facebook already has a button that allows people to declare that they are safe, a button that allows people who are on a social network, in a normal context, to relax, to register and tell their friends that they are alive, so the barbershop knocks on the door and knocks at the door of our computers. Unfortunately, today we add Brussels to Paris, Madrid, London, New York, Beirut, Baghdad, Telavive, Istanbul, Damascus, Moscow and so many cities on the planet that deal with terrorism and that are too often remembered, that are fragile. With their citizens we share the same dramas, the same values. We die in the same way as Belgian or Portuguese, Flemish or Walloon, European or non-European, immigrants or natural, Christians or atheists, Jews or Muslims, poor or rich. Today, at the airport and metro in Brussels, the innocent did not choose the barbershop to which they were subjected. But also the terrorists do not choose their victims, precisely because they are indifferent to them, because what they want is to intimidate, terrorize, try to break peace and healthy living among human beings, which is what we all are. That is what we are all when we live, that is what we are all when we die, and that is what we cannot, under any circumstances, stop being faced with the challenge that fundamentalists propose to put on the table. We're all targets. All those who do not give in to intolerance, all those who reject fundamentalism are all targets of the same barbarism. at this time when Europe faces so many challenges, at this time when Europe faces so many times those who, on our backs, in our ports, in our cities, come to seek comfort from conflicts as violent as those that have suffered today, we must remember and not lose the sense of humanity, because those people, perhaps, share and suffer longer than we precisely the same. Perhaps we, Europeans, Belgians, Portuguese, have today more in common with those who had to flee Damascus, Aleppo, and who suffer every day in the same way. Today, we remember a little more because we are human beings and those who seek shelter with us, together with us, in our cities, they also cry with us today when we should more often cry with them when the same happens to them. Today, I think that the message that we all are going through is the same: we must fight terrorism with the means of the rule of law, with the means that enable us to strengthen police cooperation, cooperation between States, combat social exclusion that feeds fundamentalism, combat fundamentalism that then feeds extremism and destroys the fabric of our societies as well. Trust our values, united in diversity, which is the highest in the European Union, but today, unfortunately, also united in the pain that also unites all the peoples of Europe and the world, we are able to remain faithful to our values and also be able not to abdicate one millimeter, as Mr Luís Marques Guedes said recently. We will not undo what we build, because we cannot give in to those who want to destroy what is not so much our means of life or our civilization, but what identifies us as human beings. [[PS, PSD, BE and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u5	On behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: These are moments like this that call us to what is a demonstration of terror. And, in the face of terror, in the face of hatred, in the face of contempt for the life that he has demonstrated today who put the bombs that have exploded in Brussels, our society has often been confronted and has been urged to react, and has done so well for the positive, showing that we do not allow ourselves to be overcome neither by hatred, nor by fear and that we do not accept to be instrumentalized in what those who have put the bombs want, that is, that there is a clash of civilizations, that there is a clash of religions. Don't! There is contempt for life by those who wanted to kill indiscriminately, there is hatred that led them to make this attack. That is why, faced with this terror, our first answer must be of the humblest humanity, because that is where the values that we must defend at these difficult times are rooted. Our dead, those in Brussels, Paris or Madrid who have perished in the face of terror, demand from us that we not allow ourselves to be disappointed in the face of hatred and that we do not let go of what we have built: freedom, the defense of the rule of law and the guarantee that it is for the positive that rights are exercised and not for the negative. That is what we are facing today, and that is the answer we must give. I insist: our dead deserve more than our hatred and hate would be the victory of those who put and killed with these bombs. For this reason, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I will conclude, perhaps as it should have begun, by presenting a word of solidarity for the Belgian people, for the European peoples who have been victims of terrorism and for the families and friends of those who have perished and, of course, to those who are still struggling for life at this time. This is where we are confronted with our humanity, and it is therefore in this simple response that we also respond to humanity at the moment, for the positive, by the statement that there is no fear that it can destroy what has cost us so much to build: freedom, the rule of law. Our solidarity with the Belgian people. [[Congratulations from BE, PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u7	For the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to stress that we are discussing and voting again today for one vote of regret. Each of these votes of regret that we approve is one more vote of regret. We continue to approve vows of regret because, once again, terrorism has attacked, and this time literally, in the heart of Europe and in what is also the political capital of the European Union. As has been said here, well, this terrorism that has attacked in Brussels today is the same thing that, just to quote the most recent examples, attacked in Tunisia, attacked in Paris or attacked in Istanbul. Obviously our first word, Mr President, is a word of dismay, it is a word of regret, it is a word of sadness and it is also a word of solidarity for the Kingdom of Belgium, for its authorities, represented here, and also for all those who, since the first hour, have been helping the victims and trying to reduce the suffering of all those who have been affected by this tragedy. It is clear that what this terrorism is trying to create is panic, to create fear in European societies, but it is true too — and we agree — that, before that, we will never be able to question our values, our way of life, freedom and humanism, which are our fundamental values and the sakes we do not dispense under any circumstances. We will not shrink a millimeter that is in the defense of humanism, of humanity to help those who need it. And so many are now going to Europe in need of help, refugees of war situations, of war in Syria, but of war that is also in the heart of Europe, as we saw this morning. We will always continue to defend peace; we will always continue to use what we call the moral superiority of democracies, that is, we do not yield to terror, but we will never use methods that are considered abusive or methods that are comparable to any kind of terror to combat that same terrorism. We will also be firm and will not give in to populisms or radicalisms, which find in these threats a fertile ground for their growth, but will never give up the goal of ensuring the safety of our fellow citizens. And we don't accept, ladies and gentlemen. Members, under no circumstances, any kind of apology, be it sociological or otherwise, of this type of bloody murderers who today have killed cowardly and mindlessly in the heart of Europe. We will continue to combat terrorism, to be firm and to improve the mechanisms for combating terrorism here in Portugal, to demand a united Europe in the fight against terrorism, to share information, to cooperate in the European area so that it will be guaranteed to our citizens and our children security and freedom and that these murderers will know that in the end they will not succeed. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u9	On behalf of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP strongly condemns the attacks committed in Brussels, it expresses to the victims and their families, in the person of Mr Ambassador, here present, his dismay and feeling of regret and expresses his solidarity to the Belgian people. Terrorism, whatever its causes, forms and objectives proclaimed, always serves the most reactionary interests, even if they are more obscure. Crimes of this nature cannot be disconnected from an international situation which continues to be marked by interferences and aggressions against sovereign States, often through the instigation of religious and ethnic conflicts and the promotion and instrumentalization of xenophobic, racist and fascist charisc forces. A situation in which the implementation of policies that increase exploitation and social exclusion, which neglect fundamental rights and values, in particular by deepening the concept of « Europe fort », as is the case in the European Union. The CFP draws attention to the dangers of the instrumentalization of genuine feelings of indignation to impose even more security measures attacks on citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees and to promote racist and xenophobic feelings that have fueled the growth of far-right and fascist forces in Europe. As you have pointed out, the CFP believes that the response to terrorism is necessarily due to the fight against its deepest causes — political, economic and social — and to the defence and affirmation of the values of freedom, democracy, sovereignty and independence of States. That is to say, combating such crimes requires a reversal of policies, both economic and social, and international relations between States. We therefore stress once again, and with greater urgency, the need for the end of political, financial and military support given to groups that spread terror and destruction, particularly in the Middle East, as well as the end of interference and aggression against sovereign States, the development of policies of peace and cooperation, motivated by values of solidarity and protection of human rights, which respect international law. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u11	On behalf of the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Greens Parliamentary Group of the Greens is associated and, of course, endorses this vote of condemnation and regrets the terrorist attacks in Brussels this morning dramatically agreed to both Europe and the world. The Greens take advantage of their solidarity with the Belgian people and, in particular, the families of the victims, wishing rapid improvements to the hundreds of people who were injured in these attacks, particularly the Portuguese citizen who was also hit. These terrorist attacks, which have caused at least 34 deaths and more than 200 wounded, deserve the most profound condemnation by the Greens Ecological Party and must deserve the firmest condemnation of all those who believe that democracy, peace and solidarity among peoples must be the fundamental pillars of building our collective future. In the face of these terrorist attacks, we will not only expect societies based on the values of the democratic rule of law not to fade into the affirmation of these values, but also that these attacks lead us to reflect on the causes of terrorism and on the ease with which weapons circulate within our planet. The Greens therefore condemn the terrorist attacks that have taken place today in Brussels and express their deepest sympathy for the victims. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u13	You have the floor for the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: On behalf of the NAP and the values we defend, based on non-violence, it is with deep regret that we express our condolences to the families of all citizens and citizens involved, directly or indirectly, in this irrational act of terrorism, such as our solidarity with the Belgian people. Recalling the Paris attacks in November 2015, we reinforce that the democratic path to resolving these cases should always be done through fair and transparent criminal investigation by competent and democratic institutions. Let us not be swept away by the blind appeals of an invisible and timeless war against terrorism. We reinforce that Europe is not at war, because peace is not built up with militarism or the suppression of civic freedoms. The ideological irrationality that divides hearts and minds in many regions of the world must be opposed, to a greater extent, by a global empathy and rationality that understands that all our actions have repercussions. Therefore, we are once again called to rethink our social management and the real impact of our geopolitics on other countries and other cultures. at this moment of profound constancy, we call for the union of all European and world citizens to defend the democratic values of freedom of expression and religion and non-violence, to strengthen our determination to build a truly equitable and peaceful society in all its expressions. As Mahatma Gandhi pointed out, «we are the change we want to see in the world». [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u15	The Government associates itself with this vote of condemnation and regrets, so it has the floor, also for two minutes, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by saying a special compliment to Mr Ambassador of the Kingdom of Belgium in Portugal and by conveying, through him, the solidarity of all the Portuguese people and the Portuguese Government to all the people of Belgium. Europe today was deeply shocked by the reports of a barbarian who had been attacked in the capital of Belgium. On behalf of the Government of the Portuguese Republic, I would like to extend the deepest condolences to the families of the victims of the attacks and also to express solidarity with the population. The Belgian citizens today live a day of pain and mourning that will long be recorded in their memories as the day when terrorism tried to destroy democratic tranquillity and replace it with violence and fear. But on 22 March 2016 it will not only be in the memory of the Belgian people, it will be in the memory of all European peoples. When Brussels is attacked it is not only the heart of a friendly country that is reached, it is the civil values that Europe inherits from the past, the same values that it represents in the present and the values that must continue to defend in the future. It is the values that allow more than 500 million inhabitants to share in peace the same political community, with equal rights and duties, and that will enable Europeans, in the future, to win the battle against terrorism. Today, the day when the civilizational values on which the European Union is founded were so brutally attacked is the time to reaffirm those same values that we defend and that we must continue to defend. Faced with the risk of the spiral of extremism that stands today on the Belgian population and all European citizens, we must respond with the best of European heritage: the values of democracy, freedom, solidarity, security and justice. [[P.S., BE, The Greens and the P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u17	Mr President of the Bureau, Mr Pedro Alves, will read vote No 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemnation and regret for the terrorist attacks in Brussels ( President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN ), after which the same shall be voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Today we have been agreed upon by a true scenario of horror. In the face of terrorist attacks at an airport and at a metro station in Brussels, our first words of solidarity are addressed to the families of the victims, as well as to the Belgian people and the Kingdom of Belgium. Secondly, a word of comfort at this difficult time for all Belgian, Portuguese and other citizens, residing in Brussels. Brussels is the seat of the European institutions and meeting point of so many peoples and of so many ideas and projects that converge there. This terrible news, which shook us deeply, emerges following the capture of one of the perpetrators of the Paris attacks. These attacks will not cause fear or prejudice to reign, nor will they erode courage in the fight against terrorism and its causes, a persistent effort involving multiple dimensions. What lasts this fight, what matters is that open societies never let themselves be closed and always remain faithful to the values of the democratic rule of law. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, thus expresses its most vehement condemnation of the terrorist attacks in Brussels and its deepest sympathy for the victims'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask everyone to make a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my solidarity and that of the whole Bureau with Mr Ambassador of Belgium here present, and to tell you that our flag, in the Assembly of the Republic, will be half a saw from now on. We will come to the second point of our agenda, which is made up of political statements. For a political declaration, you have the floor, firstly, Mr Carlos Costa Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, in a more personal way, to associate myself expressly with the vote of regret which has just been approved unanimously. After all, I lived or had a home in Brussels for eight years and Maelbeek's station was the one I usually used, so I live this moment with special intensity. I would also like to say that there is only one way to deal with terrorism: by firmly clinging to our values, to our principles and to the rules we share in the European Union. Turning now to my political statement, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basic Law which governs us celebrates, for these days, 40 years! For 40 years the Constitution of the Republic has guided our values, our principles and the rules of the democratic rule of law that we are and that since then each of us has undertaken to preserve, cultivate and defend. We defend the rule of democratic law, insofar as we meet, in particular, the essential rule of the separation of powers, assuming, fully and responsibly, those which are expressly assigned to us: the legislative power and the power to control the government. in this context, we have the right and the duty to monitor, scrutinize and inquire the government, which, for its part, has an obligation to provide the necessary information for the full exercise of our function. We will thus be ensuring the transparency of governance and promoting the credibility of the institutions of democracy, as well as the safety and confidence of our citizens. Security and confidence that are, after all, the most powerful antidotes of populism and populistism that in today's world are among the main threats to the rule of democratic law, even in the European Union that we are a party. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If you reaffirm your commitment to the values, principles and rules that join us here, it is always appropriate to start a legislative process, it is a particularly appropriate time to exercise such a commitment. so that, in a frontal, transparent and constructive way, repeats, here and now, the questions which we have asked Mr Prime Minister 72 hours ago. What is the basis for what, three days ago, has come to the public space, in relation to the possible intention of the government to draw, redesign or, in any other way, influence or condition solutions regarding the national bank's shareholder structure? Has the Prime Minister taken the initiative to meet with Mrs Eng. Isabel dos Santos and to do so outside the administration of the presumably involved financial institutions, as well as the Minister of Finance and, above all, the competent supervisory, national and European regulatory bodies, the financial system and the capital market, independent by definition? To confirm such a meeting, was it addressed or agreed upon any sort of arrangement as to the composition of the capital of financial institutions? More: were the government and/or potential shareholders discussed or agreed upon, or also referred to possible amendments to legislation that could facilitate possible solutions? At some point it was admitted that any compromise could involve the spending of public capital, in particular due to the nationalization of national financial institutions, as is the result of the understanding so often repeated by the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in another context, but always in terms of the values, principles and rules of the democratic rule of law, and still being very direct, I ask: confirms Mr. Prime Minister that the Government has already ensured the ratification of the decision yesterday disclosed to extend the exploitation of the Port Metro by direct adjustment to the Baraqueiro Group? If such a decision is taken, is it related, directly or indirectly, to the regression of the conditions of privatisation of TAP?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u22	Is the combination of time and protagonists of the processes of regression of the privatisation of the TAP and the extension of the concession of the Port Metro inappropriate coincidence or resulting from prior consultation?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u24	If there has been prior consultation, what are the exact boundaries of the commitment between the Government and the Baraqueiro Group and how, when and by whom has this commitment been taken? Mr. President and Mr. Members, more than desirable, it is imperative that we all do everything in order to clarify the two situations mentioned and thus remove any doubt that may obscure the transparency of the relationship, forced in democracy, between the private sphere of business and the public sphere of governance. [[PS laughter.]] It is time, more than time, for the government to clarify, without ambiguity, soon without room for doubt, what has happened, as has happened, with whom it has passed or, in the event of nothing having happened, to proclaim with equal clarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u26	This will respect the values, principles and rules of the democratic rule of law, which we have chosen for 40 years. You win the institutions, you win the country, you win the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u27	The Bureau shall record four requests for clarification. Mr. Carlos Costa Neves reported that he will answer two to two. First of all, for a request for clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Costa Neves has come here to subscribe to the Constitution, a text which the PSD and the CDS have blatantly and enthusiastically violated for four years. Therefore, it is always good to see the PSD return, though timidly, to the constitutional arc. Here we will be to welcome you! Mr. Carlos Costa Neves, I don't know if you know but in the General Regime of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies as well as in the other legislative texts on this matter, it is up to the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Portugal, in conjunction with the Banco de Portugal, to bear the ultimate responsibility for financial stability in Portugal. The current government will not, irresponsibly, resign itself from everything it has to do, leaving the government with responsibility for trying to solve the problems that it has not solved. [[PSD protests.]] It was for your government, or the government that you supported, you did not solve, you did not get involved, you did not speak and you did not fulfill your obligations that we have the problems we have. The second pillar of the Troika Adjustment Programme is the stability of the financial sector, and it cannot be different from the stability of the financial sector as we do not have today and because of its government's responsibility. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u29	The honourable Member must be reminded of the travels of the gentleman next to you, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, who laughs with that smile that we all, unfortunately, know him—and what a good smile Dr. Passos Coelho has, who is laughing at his throat... [[PSD protests.]] But the Portuguese do not laugh at the scream of the previous government that has not fulfilled its duties! [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr, the question is this: Portugal now has a serious financial problem in the financial sector that the previous government should have resolved, which said it had resolved and which it did not resolve. The General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies determines that the Ministry of Finance, together with the Banco de Portugal, have responsibilities for monitoring the financial sector. [[Pause.]] Mr. Carlos Costa Neves, takes the notes that Mr. Deputy, or Prime Minister in exile, Passos Coelho, is giving you. I'll give you time to take them out. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u30	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u31	Have you taken the notes yet? Can I go on? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u32	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u33	The question that I would like to ask you, Mr President, is the following: in view of the regulatory framework that exists in the European Union at this time, in which, if States do not take care of problems in the financial sector, it is the States, in particular the Government and the Prime Minister, as the maximum responsible for that government, who have to pay the invoice, having the country paying the invoice by a government which, for election reasons, has not decided to be involved...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u34	You must conclude, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u35	... in a matter of its exclusive responsibility, since it involved money from Portuguese taxpayers in several Portuguese banks, not being the problems of these banks resolved and being responsible for the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Portugal... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... to ensure that there are no serious problems in the financial system, does the honourable Member think that the best thing for a government to do is not to get involved, not to do, not to get involved, not to decide and, finally, when everything goes wrong, to be the same government and the Portuguese taxpayers paying the bill? [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u36	Mr President, you have spent a lot of your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u37	That's what happened in the past. We all paid for the government's inaction. I would like to ask the honourable Member whether that is what he is defending now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u38	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u39	Mr Carlos Costa Neves brought here a very relevant issue, which is the principle of the separation of powers and how this Parliament should monitor the action of the Government. He has reworded questions that the Social Democratic Party has asked and which, of course, only the Socialist Party or the Government can answer, which they evidently choose not to do. Make them in a framework which is essential at any time, and also in this particular, which is the framework for the stability of the financial sector. It is true that the Ministry of Finance is the most responsible for the stability of the financial sector in Portugal. I therefore ask Mr Carlos Costa Neves if he does not consider that it is essential in this context that the Ministry of Finance should have an opinion on matters very relevant to the stability of the financial sector, e.g. the location of the decision-making centres for credit granting of the banking institutions authorised to operate in Portugal. Is it important or not to discuss whether the credit granted to small and medium-sized Portuguese companies is decided in Lisbon, Porto, whether it is decided in Portugal or whether it is decided in any other country? That, yes, is a question to put to the executive power, which has to have opinions and answer on this matter. It is time whether or not we stop jumping on a case-by-case basis and the Portuguese taxpayers know, in each case, after all, what the government does and how much it costs? Is it not time for us to know, once and for all, that the government can only intervene in accordance with its powers and that, therefore, it cannot intervene directly or indirectly in the shareholder structure of banks, when it relates only to private business? Private business is not within the framework of the stability of the financial sector which is conferred on the Ministry of Finance. That's something else! This is market and interference is unlawfully perverting market rules. It is all these clarifications that have to be given — we agree. I therefore ask Mr Carlos Costa Neves whether the problem we have is whether it is a problem of transparency. We do not discuss the separation of powers, because this is absolute, we do not discuss the competence that the Ministry of Finance has at most responsible for the stability of the financial sector, because this stems from the law. That's not the problem! What is at stake is taxpayers know, once and for all, how their money is committed, what objectives, in the name of what interests and what profit to the taxpayers. Is this what you have, or is it not, to be clarified? Is it, or is it not, a problem of transparency, for which this government has not yet done anything? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u40	To reply, Mr Carlos Costa Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Galamba, we really, after some time, are going to get to know each other well, so it is not strange that Mr Galamba starts his speech by saying « I don't know whether». The honourable Member knows everything, the others know nothing, and therefore this is nothing unexpected. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] And I'm sorry to be insolent, because it doesn't touch me either.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u42	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u43	At the question of « I don't know if», I always tell you that I know now and I already know in 2011. In 2011, I already knew the difference between financial stability and government responsibility and the shareholder structure, as Mr. João Almeida said well. And I also know that in 2011, because he was already a Member of this House, the government then had to go capitalizing on several banks and that we still pay many of the government's options and interferences prior to 2011 in private businesses, which would be exclusively in the private sphere. [[PSD applause.]] I know all that, Mr. Deputies. I have followed all this, Mr President. As I know the Constitution of the Republic. I know what the rule of law is, I know what transparency is, I know what respect is for the Constitution. Mr. Deputies, excuse me from shooting in every way. Just assume that you don't want to answer. The only thing I asked for in the intervention I made of the rostrum was that Mr. Prime Minister said what was being dealt with at the meeting. What does the magazine say on Saturday or not? Was it financial stability or was it the bank’s shareholders’ framework? That's all I ask! That's all I want to know! [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u44	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u45	With regard to Mr. João Almeida's questions, it is obvious that there is a profound distinction between the discussion on the shareholder structure and the government's responsibility for financial stability. Therefore, it is clear that, despite six minutes of attempts, of at least 20 cross-questions and references to the question of TAP and the Barraqueiro Group, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not want to answer. Let us wait for Mr. Prime Minister to respond. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u46	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is known that the Portuguese bank is of the least capitalised in Europe and is sitting on top of billions of highly devalued assets. And, moreover, everyone knows it's just a matter of time, until the problem that the PSD and the CDS didn't want to see, nor solve, blow us in their hands. It's going to blow up the retarder and it's going to be paid to the retarder. It is also true that the right has no solution for the banking system that is no longer the same. And the same is to let private businesses work and deliver our financial system to foreign capital, whether that Spanish or Angolan capital. But it is also necessary to say that it is not just the right. We have seen, often too, central block people sitting in the administrations of Portuguese and Angolan banks, PSD and PS people sitting in the boards of administration of Portuguese and Angolan banks. Therefore, it is not thought that the problem of ‘spanishing’ of the bank is solved by doing nothing and allowing the market to function or hand over the Portuguese bank to the Angolan power family.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u49	The news that came out in the last few days is worrying. It must be said that, rather than seeking a balance between Angolan capital and Spanish capital, the Government of Portugal needs to find a balance and a response to the stability of the Portuguese financial system and to ensure that we have strategic control of the financial system. It is time to understand that the financial system is a public good. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The financial system is an instrument of economic policy, development and economic growth. The financial system is an instrument of sovereignty which cannot be divested neither the Angolan capital nor the Spanish capital. Mr. Carlos Costa Neves, I have a lot of difficulty imagining a question to ask you, because the PSD has no answer to this problem. There's no answer! It has already given itself to the idea of Portugal to be a completely dependent financial colony either of Spain's interests or of the interests of the family of José Eduardo dos Santos, so do! One thing I guarantee you: with this model, without public control of the bank...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u50	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u51	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, with this model, without the public control of the bank that the Portuguese taxpayers have already paid too much, we will never be able to recover from the crisis and have an economic and development policy that we see. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u52	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Costa Neves, the increasing control of the national bank by foreign capital is a problem. It is a problem because it means monitoring national decision-making centres abroad and is even more serious when it comes to a strategic sector such as banking. Mr President, the problem is that the national bank should be handed over to economic and financial groups which manage it not for the benefit of Portugal and the Portuguese, but in the view of maximizing profits. This problem, Mr President, is only solved by the public control of the bank. The private banking sector has neither served nor served workers, populations, companies, producers, the national economy nor served nor did it serve the country. On the contrary, it harmed them. Therefore, Mr President, what is needed is that the State takes control of the bank. This is where the answer to the problem lies! It is necessary to take this step and to ensure that the Portuguese bank, controlled by the State, becomes at the service of national interests. Mr Carlos Costa Neves came here today to regret the growing control of the national bank by foreign capital. I am sorry, Mr President, for the hypocrisy, for the profound political hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u55	So, the PSD has not always assumed itself as the defender of banking control by private capital? So it was not the PSD that in the previous government, together with the CDS, forced the General Deposit Box to sell part of its assets, particularly in the insurance sector, weakening the only Portuguese public bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u56	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u57	So it wasn't the PSD government that sold BPN to the wreck and tried to hand over the New Bank to private capital? Is the PSD not a strong advocate of banking union, a process that has as its main objective the concentration of banking activity in half a dozen megabanks of the main capitalist powers of the European Union? Does the PSD not in any case defend the free movement of capital, in particular of financial capital? Mr President, do you not have the PSD in place a policy for the promotion of large private interests, particularly in the banking sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u58	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u59	I will finish, Mr. President. The former Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho did not even worry about hiding his contact with José Maria Ricciardi, keeping him in front of BES Investment, already after the BES / GES scandal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u61	... assuming this connection of promiscuity between political power and economic power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u62	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u63	Mr. Carlos Costa Neves, your political statement is an hymn to hypocrisy. Do not now come « crying crocodile tears», when the PSD has always played a decisive role in the options that led the national bank to the situation in which it is located. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u64	To reply, Mr Carlos Costa Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u65	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua's speech, which, after all, did not ask any question, certainly deserves a comment for two reasons. First, what is at stake is the current moment. My speech has nothing to do with the past four years of government, which I am proud of ; that is not what I have spoken about. You guys are dealing with the current moment and I'm talking about the current moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u67	Don't put the speech in the past, because the speech is in the present. The honourable Member says that the right has no solutions. Well, but the solutions presented by the left I don't understand them, because there are at least four different solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u68	At least, there are solutions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u69	That is why I do not understand the opportunism of the support that they are giving to each other, because the solutions that are being pointed out here day by day differ deeply. I will repeat the two main questions that I have raised and which you have not wanted to answer. First: what is the basis for what three days ago arrived in the public space in relation to the possible intention of the government to draw, redesign or, in any other way, influence or condition solutions regarding the national bank's shareholder structure? Mr Paulo Sá, I always say that on this issue your position on the bank is very clear, i.e. whether Portugal is outside the euro, they want to renegotiate the debt, i.e. not pay it, and they want to nationalize the bank. Understand with your left-hand partners! Your position is very clear! But I would also like to understand why I do not react to the second part of my intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u70	But who asks the questions is us!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u71	In fact, none of the parties' interventions to my right made any reference to this second part, i.e. to the following question: the conjugation of time and protagonists, of the processes of regression of the privatisation of the TAP and the extension of the concession of the Port Metro, is it inappropriate coincidence or arising from previous consultation? It's not worth fighting things, answer the question! Was there a coincidence or a purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u72	But who asks the questions is us! And we asked six questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u73	Mrs. Members of the Communist Party's Parliamentary Group are very upset with the TAP, they do not want to talk about it, but the questions I asked had to do with TAP, Barraqueiro, and with the meeting of Mr. Prime Minister with Mrs. Eng. Isabel dos Santos. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u74	He spoke, he spoke, but he didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u75	Before the next political statement, I would like to ask the Secretary to read the file that has been sent to the Bureau in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft resolutions Nos 182 / XIII ( 1 ) were introduced into the Bureau. ( a ) — Ensures the allocation of special education allowance and ensures clinical support for all children with disabilities ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 183 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government resolve the existing problems and constraints and promote the defence and exploitation of the fishing community of Australia ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 184 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ratify the ILO Protocol on Forced Labour ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 185 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Strasbourg ( President of the HR ), 186 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the definition of a set of measures aimed at retraining works in the social districts of Guimarães and Barcelos ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 187 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By urgent intervention in the recovery of the National Road No 4 ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u77	Let us therefore continue with the political statements. Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the fundamental guidelines of the XXI Constitutional Government Programme is summarized in the expression « priority for people ». Two sentences from the Government Programme say the essential: "The dignity of people must be the central value of decent society. People are the first and most important active in the country. Do not keep on seeking. ” Public education policies are one of the ways in which this fundamental orientation can be achieved. The qualification of Portuguese, if it undoubtedly matters to the sustainable development of the country, also matters, and this is no less crucial, to the full realization of each person and to the deepening of democratic citizenship. It is in this framework that it is understood that the Ministry of Education has put the promotion of school success as the first priority. A key aspect of promoting successful learning is evaluation. The Socialist Party therefore welcomes the approval by the Council of Ministers last week of the integrated model of external evaluation of learning in basic education. The essential was already known since January: the 9 exams continue. the year; the exams of 4 are abolished. it's 6. the years; evidence of measurement is introduced in the middle of each cycle of studies, so that these tests make an early contribution to the improvement of learning, allowing to detect, in time, what is good and must continue, but also what needs to be corrected, improve. All this was known since January. What is new and has been communicated to schools last week were the concrete dates for carrying out the tests, which fall in the week previously signaled, as well as the transitional regime for measuring tests. Since the right opposition chose precisely the transitional regime as a reason for noise, as if it were unpublished or extraordinary in a change of these, it is clear what such transitional regime consists of. For, simply in the case of schools, they decide not to carry out tests this year, if for this reason they find a basis in their specific situation, particularly in logistical difficulties, as well as in the possibility of schools still carrying out tests this year in the 4. it's 6. the years of diagnosis, using a national matrix. It should be recalled to the most forgotten that already in the communication sent to the schools at the beginning of January there were elements that characterized the current academic year as a transitional year, leaving for 2016 / 2017 the entry into force of some important aspects of the model, in particular as regards the extension of the curricular areas covered by the measurement process. Nothing more normal than providing a change in this pedagogical scope with a transition period, even more so when this resulted in an intense audcultation of schools, which went through meetings of the government team with the hundreds of directors of groups and schools not grouped throughout the country, decentralizedly. Of course you cannot like this the supporters of the Crato method, the minister of the PSD government / CDS, that everything changed (assessment, curriculum, schedules), without ever listening to anyone, without listening to the directors, without listening to the schools. Everything's ready. All schools can move forward to the measurement tests because on the part of the Ministry of Education will have all the instruments for their implementation. Tests of measurement constitute a new right of students: the right of each student to receive individual information on his/her performance for each domain or theme; the right of each student to have, on the basis of that individual sheet, timely indications and differentiated support that help him/her to strengthen his/her strengths and correct his/her weak points; the right of each student to know in time and time what to do to learn more and learn better, because precisely for this must always serve the evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, when this Parliament generally approved the end of the examinations of 4. the year, a report recorded the following reaction of students of 1. the cycle: « We’ve been training for nothing for three years». We thus perceive the depth of the damage caused to education by the ideological governance of Nuno Crato. Who taught children that three years of learning is useless if there is no early examination? Yes, the 4th exam. the year was an early exam, which does not exist in virtually any civilized country. Yes, the excessive focus on exams was an ideological fixation that ignored the knowledge available on these issues. The new model, yes, aligns the Portuguese system with best international practices, ending with the abnormality of being a rarity in the OECD. The Socialist Party has no radical position on the examinations in general, as demonstrated by the fact that the new model keeps the examinations of the 9. year. But it is worth remembering: we are talking about basic education and the most important is continuous evaluation, this evaluation focused on the concrete work of the classroom—which was already, and will continue to be, the decisive element for both learning and the formation of the note. Of course, those who only think about multiplying exams and rankings and who, because of this fixation, forget the essential, these are nervous. But they should not, because the new integrated model of external evaluation places the focus on what matters, on the specific conditions of operation of schools. For example, while the previous calendar interrupted the classes in the middle of 3. the period for the tests, in the new calendar the tests take place in the last week of classes, minimizing their impact on the other disciplines. That is what Crato's greeting forgets: the concrete life of schools. Instead, it is up to us to assume our responsibilities and to give the correct message to students, parents and professionals: they continue to study, they continue to teach, in time the tests of measurement will come to help improve this work. And never again, never again, evaluation as punishment. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u79	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Porfirio Silva informed the Bureau that he wanted to answer two to two. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Santos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Porfirio Silva, we understand the need for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to come to the debate to defend the educational policies of this government, until its responsibility ends where difficulties begin, but we also understand its difficulty in defending so much inconsistencies and so much incompetence in so little time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u81	To the instability introduced with the changes to the assessment system announced in the middle of the school year, the Government now adds more instability by referring to schools the responsibility and burden of this school year may, or may not, make the tests of measurement and the tests of final evaluation. How can you agree with this discharge of responsibility? Do you know the criteria for a school to decide to take exams and another one? You will not call this incompetence the autonomy of schools, will you not, Mr Commissioner?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u82	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u83	I'm sure you don't. But I would like to leave you with another question that everyone should be concerned about: how can students, parents and even professionals who have already mentioned here today take seriously an education policy that two months from the end of the school year does not make clear whether or not there will be evidence of evaluation?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u84	You can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u85	Mr President, remember that an easy school does not prepare for difficult living. This is an unquestionable truth that we should never forget. I also leave a word on the teacher contest that you wanted to ignore here. The Ministry came to this House to promise that it will fight the precariousness and said it was necessary to give stability to the teaching body in schools. It is good to remember that the parties that now support the government have criticized the previous one, which has linked more than 4000 teachers. Last year, when the previous ministry opened the nearly 1500 vacancies in the contest, they found little, they said that it was insufficient and that it was one more step in the destruction of public school. this year, what do they say? What do they say before the opening of a teacher contest with only 100 new board vacancies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u86	A hundred? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u87	What is your justification with the average of the last four years, which was 1000 vacancies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u88	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u89	None, I'm sure. Unless they want to increase the number of teachers hired at the beginning of the school year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u90	It's the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u91	Having said this, we are asking, Mr President, and I conclude, Mr President: do schools suddenly have their entire teaching frameworks? Don't you have any more teachers now? No retirement? This is what it is important to be clarified today and now by the Socialist Party, which supports the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u92	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Porfirio Silva, this is also a fundamental issue for the CDS, which is why we will soon make a political statement on exactly the same subject. Therefore, with our vision on the subject gradually, I have only two very practical questions, which I would like to ask you, as a result of your intervention. The first is the following: with these optional evidences, as they have ended up in this school year, how will the Ministry of Education ensure that all students of the public-private system benefit from this new right that you have spoken here, the right to make proof of measurement and receive an individual evaluation form, if the evidence is left to the criterion of each school and, therefore, will we have schools that meet and schools that do not comply with this evidence? The second question has to do with consequences. If, depending on schools, we have or do not have evidence and if these tests have no impact on the results of students, what happens to students who decide, with all freedom, not to go to these tests at the end of the school year, after the year is over?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u95	He says that everything is under way, that everything is on the ground, that all the instruments are created. After all the directors had been consulted and Mr Minister had made sure that everything was in peace, that everyone agreed and that there was no further clarification, still without understanding why the evidence was not applied with the security that Mr Minister announced on 8 January. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Amadeu Soares Albergaria.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u96	To reply, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u97	Mr President, Mrs Emília Santos and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, thank you for the questions you have put to me. I mean, with all clarity, that I do not feel the need to defend the education policy of this government. I have the pleasure and honour to defend the education policy of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also true, Madam Member, that I cannot tell you, because I would be lying, that it is possible to reverse in just one year and a few months what you have done for four and a half years in education. But, calm down, the legislature's just starting, and we're going there.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u98	That's scary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u99	If I was done, it wasn't that scary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u100	But is the idea that I cannot respond to requests for clarification or would you like to hear the answer? Oh, my God! Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, there is one thing you really need to understand... [[CDS-PP protests.]] We're looking at the example that you guys are looking at. Ladies and gentlemen give it to the students! Open... Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I think that she should have met at least this essential point: all students will have a 100% evaluation, resulting from internal evaluation and continuous evaluation. Therefore, Mrs. Member, if you have already understood the basic features of this system, you know that no student will be harmed in your evaluation because of the implementation of this model.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u101	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u102	Mrs Deputy, as I said from the rostrum, we consider it a new right for students to give timely guidance so that students can, with their teachers and with their families, correct their process. It is a right that, eventually, only over time will we be able to see fully realized. However, Mrs Deputies, it is better to start applying a right, start developing a right than, as you have done, replace education, replace learning, replace teaching with exams, exams and more exams in years that no civilized country has. We need to go to a part of Belgium and a part of the United States to have the example we had here with the 4th exams. year. That, of course, will end. The responsibility of the schools, Mrs Emília Santos, is not an burden. Schools know, they always know, take on their responsibilities. Therefore, be rested, Mrs. Member,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u103	I'm not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u104	... because schools know very well what they do, schools know very well how to organize themselves, professionals who are there know very well how to do things. Don't worry that it's not an burden of schools, it's a responsibility that education professionals, families, parents, students, assume with all will and with all responsibility, the same responsibility that you didn't know during the last legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u105	For a second round of requests for clarification, Mr Joana Mortágua has the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u106	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, the PSD and the CDS are not yet in conformity with the end of the examinations. They go forward with argument, argument behind, without really deciding what argument they want to use. First, they said: "What a surprise the end of the exams. No one was expecting this.” Actually, everyone knew.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u107	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u108	It was in the programmes, it was approved in Parliament, the Minister announced... Everyone knew the exams would end, except for the PSD and CDS Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u109	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u110	So surprise is not an argument. Next, the argument was arrogance. They said: "The Minister has not heard anyone, the government has not heard anyone. » How funny it is to come from the honourable Members who have endured the minister who has heard the least and wanted to see during all the time of education ministries! When the Government and the Minister were listening to all the directors of all ungrouped groups and schools to know what they thought, after all, the argument of arrogance no longer served and came with another argument: the Minister heard, but did not listen, did not respect autonomy, did not respect what the directors had to say, did not respect schools. The Minister is a radical, the Minister wants to do everything in a hurry. When the government comes with a transitional measure to respect autonomy, after all moderation no longer serves, after all weighting is no longer desired, after all radicalism, because radicalism is evidence of trust, radicalism is proof that what is being done is known. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u111	Next, they came up with another argument: the evaluation is over! There could be no greater lie. Before 2011 there was no evaluation? Is only the exams that allow students to be evaluated? No, sir! Students will continue to have evaluation and no student or student in this country will be taken to the note. There will be equality for all. Therefore, the argument of the end of the evaluation is not useful, the argument of inequality does not serve. Are we isolated in Europe? Don't! On the contrary, we follow the European path. Therefore, the isolation argument does not serve either. Mr President, what is the only argument the right has to defend the examinations? At the end of the accounts, is the only argument that the right has to defend the exams, the only penalty that the right has, that the rankings have disappeared? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u112	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Porfirio Silva, I would also like to congratulate you on your speech and on the subject that has brought you to this debate, not only because of your current situation, but also because of its importance. I say how important it is because we are in fact facing the end of the examinations in paragraphs 4. it's 6. this year, a decision that not only goes to the meeting and that reflects the proposals by which the CFP has been beating itself for many years, but because it is indeed a step forward. An advance in education, an advance in schools, an advance for students, an advance that puts an end to the injustice of national exams, which penalized students, limited their school course, and that goes in the sense of a bet on continuous evaluation, appreciation of learning throughout the year and not at a specific time, as is the summative evaluation. We understand very well the discomfort and disagreement that we have been watching from the PSD and CDS. In fact, the school vision of the PSD and CDS is an elitist vision, a vision in which only some can achieve the highest levels of education. The objective of the PSD and CDS in relation to national examinations was to initiate a social and economic selection of students at the beginning of their course. A series that the PSD and the CDS wanted to impose increasingly early, instead of investing in students' access to an educational process oriented to the formation of the individual's integral culture. In fact, we have quite different views about school, what public school should be and what school courses should be on the part of students. Mr President, the instability that the PSD has invoked here in this debate, in our view, is only enough to give the schools room so that, even this school year, they can adjust the evaluation process to what they consider to be more appropriate, but it also allows the government, in our view, to prepare itself for the implementation of a model that we consider to meet those that are the demands of the school community and the educational community. The end of the exams is not a requirement today. During the last four years when the PSD and the CDS were in government, this was a measure widely contested by the school community and the educational community,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u114	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u115	...and that you still don't accept. Your educational policies have been widely challenged and we are now meeting the demands of the school community. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u116	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u117	Mr President, Members of Parliament Joana Mortágua and Paula Santos, thank you for the questions put. In reply to your questions, I would like to say the following: I think, despite everything, something must be moving right. There is one honourable Member who always talks about education makes an attack on the unions and speaks in the extreme left. Today, they haven't even attacked the unions, and they haven't even spoken in the extreme left. There are other right-wing Members who, whenever they talk about this, say that the National Education Council would be against it. Today, they have not said that, perhaps because they are aware that there was someone who tried to get the National Education Council to speak against this integrated evaluation model and the Council did not follow this initiative and sent that negative opinion into the drawer. Perhaps that is why they left the argument of the extreme left, they abandoned the argument of the National Council of Education! Sometimes they also say, « Ah, the international reports... », that of reading the cover and then not reading what is inside! Today, they also stopped talking about international reports. Perhaps because, looking well at international reports, you realize that now Portugal will be aligned with the civilized international community and no longer aligned with an American state and a Belgian region! Maybe that's why! But maybe there's another explanation. This story of the hurry... but, after all, is there any hurry? Mr. Members, the Government of Pedro Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas took possession in June 2011 — in June — and on August 3 of that same year immediately published Decree-Law No 94 / 2011, in which it radically moved in basic education, in curriculum organization, in the evaluation of learning and introduced evidence, which passed a few weeks after being in office. Maybe that's why, now, they're also starting to stop talking about the rush. Yes, because our rush is to correct, it is to improve, it is to improve assessments to improve learning, it is for students to have all better and more learning and not for just a few to enjoy some possibilities. Yes, because the former government has extinguished the most targeted disciplines for citizenship; it has changed programmes, even those that had come into force few years before; it has set new curricular goals; it has introduced examinations in the 4. it's 6. the years, in a hurry, without listening to anyone, guided by a mere ideological impulse. But here we are not guided by any ideological impulse. We are, yes, guided by the need for all students to learn more and better, because this is important to them, to the country and to all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u118	For a political declaration, you have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before every avoidable misfortune, neglect is always critical of alarmism. Whoever doesn't want to move in what he is, who doesn't want to uninstall any interests, always turns against those who do prevention. On the left side of the Block are not those accusations that prevent us from making the alarm sound. We say with all the letters and with all the responsibility: next to the Portuguese border, on the Tejo, the risk of disaster at the Almaraz nuclear power plant increases. Today, World Water Day is being signed, and today, in this Parliament, several environmental organisations were received by the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment for a hearing on the Tejo and its protection. in this hearing, there was a substantial change in the PSD position that I can not fail to point out as positive. Mr. Manuel Frexes spoke on the demand by the PSD for the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. As Mrs Roseta pointed out at the meeting this morning, with a direct memory on the subject, since the opening of the central in the 1970s — which the PSD at that time replied — the right has complied with the continuing presence of this threat at our border. For the last four years, it's been total silence. The Coelho Pass Government could have said a word, made a minimal gesture that was with the Government of the Spanish State, directed, as it is known, by close and prominent members of the PSD political family. He preferred to wait for the opposition to return. Better late, because we're in a hurry, we're in a lot of hurry. Only two months ago, five inspectors of the Spanish State Nuclear Security Council came to the public to break the silence on Almaraz. After the last survey at the nuclear power plant, motivated by repeated failures in the water pump engines, it was clear that the cooling system does not provide sufficient guarantees and that, the technicians say, poses a serious safety risk. Almaraz has the oldest nuclear reactors in the Spanish State. And every bad news before another like a bad pressure. In May 2015, about a year ago, it was reported that the riot in central fire surveillance was reported ; moreover, the falsification of the fire logs in central fires was reported. Shortly thereafter, in the summer, Greenpeace released a European study on the application of the safety minimums established after the Fukushima accident. Almaraz is presented by Greenpeace as an extreme case. The power plant does not meet essential points: it does not have safety valves and filtered ventilation systems to prevent a hydrogen explosion such as that in Fukushima ; it does not have an effective device for the containment of radioactivity in case of serious accident; it does not have a natural risk assessment; it does not even provide for the implementation of an alternative heat exhaust. Before the newspaper El País released the report of the five inspectors of the Nuclear Security Council, Greenpeace was taxing : « Almaraz is not safe and should not be allowed to maintain its activity ». After the inspectors' report, there was a new breakdown and a fire in February. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of risks, taking the alarm about Almaraz is an obligation. For years the governments of Madrid have responded with « security assurances » to the regional authorities of Extremadura and the Government of Portugal. And that was again now, as Antonio Costa admitted, requested by the Left Block here in Parliament. But every year, every incident, these guarantees are worth less. Everyone knows that a serious accident would have grave implications for the life and health of generations, with large-scale air and Tejo contamination, and could lead to an exodus of populations. A catastrophe which, not unpublished, should attract other public attention, starting with the attention of those who defend the use of nuclear energy under the claim of its advantage in terms of costs. Portugal cannot merely wait for better « guarantees », given perhaps again by a Spanish PS government. On the contrary. After requests for clarification by the Minister for the Environment, it is important to look at the news of the last few days. A number of German, Luxembourg and Dutch municipalities — Dusseldorf, Cologne, Maastricht and Luxembourg City authorities, among others, have just opened a case at the European Court of Justice for the closure of two 40-year-old nuclear reactors in Belgium. A new pressure effort on the Spanish authorities is also important here too. Not only a statement by all political leaders at the time of their positions is a risk such as that of Almaraz, but a involvement of local power, starting in the regions closest to the Spanish Extremadura and in the municipalities bathed by the Tagus. The security of populations, borders and not only, is worth more than the profits of Endesa, Iberdrola and the Fenosa Union, the shareholders of Almaraz. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, the closure of Almaraz is not just a requirement of the threatened populations. The closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant is the only objective responsible for a Portuguese government. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u120	To request clarification from Mr Matias, four Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask Mr. Carlos Matias how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u121	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u122	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Almaraz Central and issues relating to the problems of the Tejo River have been the focus of the PSD. I recall that in the recent past, in the previous legislature, it was precisely the PSD Parliamentary Group that approved a draft resolution that placed on the agenda the issue of ecological flows, navigationability and pollution in the river Tejo. In the Government of the former Parliament, we not only strengthened cooperation with Spain as the Albufeira Convention, especially for drought periods. Mrs. Members, this is indeed an important issue, too serious a subject to be used as a political weapon. A serious and serene debate is required and the PSD is at ease because, by the end of the 1970s, it voted against the construction... There is a need for a clear debate and a serious debate. And the PSD is at ease in this matter, because it was already in the late 1970s that it voted against the construction of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and against the construction of other nuclear power plants, this being done in our territory. Already in this Parliament — and since we are doing here a retrospective — when the news mentioned by the honourable Member about the shortcomings in Almaraz came to the public, it was the PSD that questioned the Portuguese Government and raised the issues that the Portuguese Government later put to the Spanish Government. It was the PSD that proposed, and approved, the creation of an inter-parliamentary committee of Luso-Spanish that addresses all these issues. The PSD is clear on what it defends. It defends that this issue must be resolved in the context of bilateral relations between Portugal and Spain ; it argues that the policy of access to information must be strengthened, as in fact it has been strengthened in recent years ; and argues that Brussels must also strengthen the supervision of European nuclear power plants, whose useful life period has expired and where the nuclear power plant in Almaraz is included. We defend that the security requirements are strictly met because, in these cases, what should happen, as in the case of Almaraz, would ideally be the closure or conversion of these plants. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u124	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u125	Mr President, Mr Matias, I would like to welcome you on the subject of the political statement you brought here and remind you, Mr President, that when the accident took place in Fukushima, we heard a number of voices of political leaders in this Europe — in Germany, France, Spain and elsewhere — that it was time to end nuclear energy, find other alternatives and create plans that were progressively ending with the option of nuclear power. It is true, Mr President, that the time for many people to lose much responsibility and today we are no longer hearing, as we heard at the time of Fukushima, of the need for the speedy closure of many nuclear power stations in Europe. And Mr. Almaraz tells us deeply about it. If the issue of nuclear naturally concerns us, Almaraz tells us even more about the proximity that it has to the Portuguese border and the impact that any incident or accident may have on the Tejo River, creating a disaster that easily reaches Portugal. So we must have a word to say about it, there is no doubt. And the truth is that we are talking about a nuclear power plant that has passed over, has long since expired its useful time of life. So we're talking about a bomb that can explode at any time. That is what the Nuclear Security Council tells us when it assures us that security conditions are not met in the operation of this nuclear power plant. Now, go and say, "Oh, but it looks like it's all right! Looks like the pumps in the cooling system, after all, aren't so bad! », this cannot generate security, Mr. We must therefore create an alarm about this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u126	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u127	Now, the honourable Member has mentioned the clarifications requested by the Minister of the Environment, which are certainly well requested, but let us rest on the response from the Government of Spain. I do not know if it will be the best methodology. Now, sir, what do I think? I think we need to wake up the population. And if the Portuguese population at times had enough strength to stop Ferrel, I am thinking that the population will have enough strength and commitment to stop the continuation of the work of that nuclear power plant in Almaraz.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u128	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u129	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, awakening, joining, waving, intervening and participating the Portuguese population, along with the Spanish population, is fundamental to pressuring governments to have responsibility for the safety of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u130	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u131	Mr President, Mr Matias, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome and appreciate the initiative to place on the agenda the central problem that you have put in your intervention and, in a comprehensive way, the defense of water, the defense of our water network, the protection of safety and the environment. And when we talk about matters with sensitivity and the degree of risk that this concrete situation mentioned has raised, it is important to bear in mind a question of a critical nature, which is truly incontrovertible and which we would like to bring to this discussion, which is the question of the ability of the Portuguese authorities and structures to respond to the level of the Portuguese State, with the mission, the responsibility of monitoring, study, research, intervention, and also on the ground, regarding the development of these situations and the indicators that may or may not convey concerns such as those mentioned. That is, to what extent can our country afford itself the luxury of, in relation to matters with this sensitivity and this degree of risk, depending on the technical and scientific capacity of other countries? This, when we see that over the years we have seen a continuous degradation of the State Laboratories, of the research and scientific and technological analysis structures, degradation that has been affecting, in a marked way, the ability to respond in the exercise and performance of their missions, including this issue of safety and verification of environmental safety parameters and, in particular, on the issue of nuclear safety. When there is a huge shortage of tables, in particular with regard to the technicians of these institutions. When there is a serious lack of funding. When we continue to have — and to have more and more — technicians replaced by pockets for missions and performance of work and regular and constant intervention, which should be committed to these institutions. When it is found that at the Institute of Technology and Nuclear (ITN) itself, which no longer exists as such, since it has been integrated into the Institute of Technical Superiors in practical capacities, the problem continues to make itself felt, with the aggravating of centralization and red tape greater than it was before in its operation...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u132	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u133	I'm done now, Mr. President. In fact, it is important to take into account, from the outset, the warnings we are making today in the Committee on the Environment, in relation to the conditions of intervention, of work that ITN technicians have in the field to respond to their mission, with all the difficulties they are aware of. There must be a clear definition of the missions to be assigned to the State Laboratories and there must then be means for the effective performance of these missions. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u134	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u135	Mr. President, today's World Water Day is celebrated. And the issues of the Tejo River pollution which, of course, mark the agenda not only of the municipalities but also of the Committee on the Environment, and which should mark the agenda of this government, were also under discussion at the hearing promoted by 11. the Commission. The Government of the Socialist Party has already given clear signs of its openness and concern regarding this matter by establishing a follow-up committee on pollution in the Tejo River, whose proposed work will soon be known, and which aims to evaluate and diagnose the situations that compete for the reduction of water quality in the river. Among the various origins of the Tejo River pollution problem has been pointed out to the Central Nuclear of Almaraz, which, according to recent news from the public and now finished to mention, does not meet the conditions to continue to operate, from the outset, due to frequent failures in the cooling system. The Almaraz Nuclear Central was expected to be closed in 2010, but it happens that more than 25 years after its start, it continues to work with successive problems. The dangers there are in the concerns of the Government of the Socialist Party, as was also clarified when Mr. Prime Minister came and the answer given to the question posed by Mr. Bloc de Left. In fact, it is a matter that is being dealt with between the two governments. I would also like to note that the concerns related to the Tejo River, with the serious problems felt in the Tejo River, mobilize municipalities, inter-municipal communities, environmental associations, Parliament and also the government and all the coastal populations. It is therefore necessary to move forward with some measures, which deserves a general agreement. From the outset, the review of the Albufeira Convention, which was signed in 1998, contains a set of commitments to be reviewed with a view to finding a solution to the problems of the river Tejo and accessories. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u136	To reply, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions that have been addressed to me. I would like to express to the Member of the PSD that the only objective responsible for the Portuguese Government is to appeal to the closure of Almaraz. It is that we, Mr. Member, do not confuse serenity with irresponsible alienation,... [[The PSD didn't stick to anything!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u138	... nor do we confuse serenity with silence and dubious positions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u139	We therefore welcome the position of the PSD, which since today has clearly and without any doubt stated that it defends the closure of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. In fact, let me say that I would appreciate and would very gladly hear an identical position if she were to come from the bench of her previous partner of coalition, the CDS, which in this matter refers to a silence that leaves us the greatest concern. We now call on the CDS-PP to join the very broad consensus that exists in this House between the left-wing benches and now also the PSD, as well as the government, in defending the closure of the Almaraz Nuclear Central. You'll be very welcome and your silence is that it's the most. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a very brief quote. Says an old official: « Now I think all nuclear power stations should shut down and I will do everything necessary for this to happen». Who said this was no radical left, nor was it the extreme left, who said this was an old Japanese Prime Minister, Naoto Kan, who was Prime Minister of Japan, during the Fukushima disaster. The former Prime Minister of Japan learned much about the disaster your country has experienced. It was good for us to take lessons too and not create conditions for a repeat of an accident of this size and with this gravity. In fact, the struggle for the closure of the Almaraz Nuclear Central should be as wide as possible and involve as many bodies as possible, namely the parties, the Government, local authorities and the people, who have an absolutely decisive role in this fight, which will certainly be difficult because it will face very powerful interests that are defending the successive extension of the functioning of the central that has long not met the minimum security conditions, as the technicians of the Spanish Nuclear Security Council have repeatedly said. Finally, you are right, Mr President of the CFP, when he refers to the lack of means. In fact, two things are needed: firstly, means of monitoring cases of pollution, radioactivity, means of detecting and identifying situations of potential gravity for our country; and, secondly, political will, something essential. In fact, there must be political will to solve the problems. And the former government had no political will to solve the problems of the Tejo River pollution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u140	This one will now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u141	... because there were inspections that were made and there were processes that were raised, but that ended up dead on the Secretary of the Minister. [[PSD protests.]] [[It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u142	It's true! So there are means and there is political responsibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u143	For a political statement, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The theme that brings me here today is, as you know, the subject of evaluation. In 2006 the Minister of Education, Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues, announced the introduction of national evidence. Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues said that « (...) to prevent school failure at the end of the basic, there must be instruments to measure and control the quality of learning at the end of 1. o, 2. o is 3. or cycles. (...) We will have national proof of universalised measurement in the 1. o is 2. the cycles, Portuguese and Mathematics, already in the next academic year». Since then, a long, gradual and consistent path has been made in the sense of a system — complementary to the always preponderant continuous evaluation, which has never been under discussion — of external assessment, more demanding and with greater credibility, within and outside the country. In November 2015, already near the end of 1. the period of classes, were abolished by parliament, the final evidence of the 4. the year and, due to the vacuum thus created, the new ministerial team had the opportunity to make a choice about the following action: by gradualism or by experimentalism? On the first days of 2016, at the beginning of 2. the period, the newly arrived Minister of Education made known his choice: he announced, for immediate implementation and at the time in legislative production, the ambitious integrated model of evaluation of learning in basic education, which also ended with the final tests of the 6. the year introduced a measurement test system in intermediate years and kept only the exams of 9. year. Without consulting anyone on this concrete model — neither the National Council of Education, nor the Council of Schools, nor CONFAP ( National Confederation of Associations of Parents ), nor the PS ministers themselves who preceded it — Mr. Minister of Education applied the evaluation system and decided to experiment. We're sorry we were right at the CDS. I recall part of what we said at the time, giving a voice to many parents and schools: "We have the conviction that the government has acted badly in time, in solution and in explanation. In time because no national evidence is changed in the middle of a school year—it is neither left nor right. It is of common sense and respect for families." [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Minister reassured us, then, with a national history of schools and told us that everything was going well. He said he spoke to 800 directors—thing herculean, if we think he's reached the speech with almost everyone and each of the directors of this country...! — and concluded that the receptivity was total and the CDS was the prophet of misfortune. On the CDS, we're sorry we were right. Why did we arrive at the end of the second period, at the doors of the third and last year, and what do we know? That the proofs at the end of this academic year of compulsory and universal application will be optional and casuistic, that the process of measurement established for the middle of the cycle in order to ensure a timely action may, after all, be done at the end of the cycles in 4. it's 6. the years, as so far, that each school will do what it can, there will be no national evidence, there will be no mandatory evidence, there will be no data, systemic information on which to act and that, therefore, even Mr. Prime Minister was overcome when he said, for example, that "(...) a proof of measurement in the second year is essential to know the work that is necessary to do with that child eventually to be able to recover in the third and fourth years(...). We do not want to leave anyone behind». It is the Ministry of Education that leaves schools behind when they resign from their responsibility to establish a national assessment system. So under a so-called cover of autonomy, the burden is passed to the schools and asks them to do what Mr. Minister could not do, as if he told them: "Make evidence in the years they understand, but if they do not, it is good to justify themselves, because the evidence is very important", even though the Ministry has not been able to put them into practice. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Minister of Education could have chosen gradualism, which entails the virtue of whom, prudently, promotes the change in which he believes, but preferred experimentalism, resulting from a certain unprepared volunteerism, without listening to whom his friend sought to be. With this, it produced a harmful result, breaking several years of systemic external evaluation, which was consolidated by a PS government. This year there will be no national examinations of 4. the year, and this is due to the initiative of the left, but there will also be no evidence of national, universal and mandatory measurement, nor 2. o, nor 4. o, nor 5. o, nor 6. the, not even the 8th year. And this is a lack of capacity from this government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u145	This Minister of Education was incoherent with the past of the Socialist Party: he ignored the educators, who pretended to hear and with whom he later apologized; he abandoned the students and families, to whom he promised not to leave behind; he forgot the fight against the failure of school, which he had in line an instrument, and even exceeded the Prime Minister, who had stated another way. And all this wasn't to get anywhere, it was simply because you couldn't do what it was on January 8, already in the middle of the school year, it was proposed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u146	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Odete João.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u147	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I have therefore said that the PSD and the CDS have not been in government for the past four years and that the political options they have taken have deepened social divides in access to education and training. Mrs Deputy, I would like to be wrong when the PSD/CDS government let 150 000 students repudiate every year, when it doubled the number of reprobations of students in 2. the secondary school cycle. I wish not to be right, Mrs Member, when the PSD/CDS government has worsened the risk rate of poverty and social exclusion, when it reached more than 30 % of children at risk of poverty and when, in one year, 42 % of young people have no longer received the social income of inclusion. This cycle of impoverishment had disastrous consequences for families and was socially unjust, perpetuating cycles of poverty that we do not want. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the review of the curriculum structure implemented by your PSD/CDS government was the subject of widespread criticism: it made the architecture of the curriculum incoherent, privileged essential disciplines such as Portuguese and Mathematics, destroyed the program of Mathematics A, secondary, minimized other disciplines, such as arts, expressions and education for citizenship, and for the same purpose transformed the educational system into a mere national examination. Educating, Mrs. Member, is much more than preparing students for exams. The PS government, having completed the previous evaluation model, has re-aligned the education system with best international practices. The fact that schools are now taking the decision to start a new model of evaluation is proof that the government is listening to school directors, sharing decisions with those closest to them and who are on the ground and who all assume their responsibilities in respecting the autonomy of schools. The CDS misses this sharing, because it is bad with this decision-making. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u148	To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u149	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, it is legitimate to defend examinations, which is dishonest to say that the school cannot be demanding without them. It is legitimate to defend exams, which is totalizing is to say that there is no other form of evaluation for a demanding school. It's legitimate to defend exams, but it's just wrong. It's wrong to defend exams! [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] It is wrong to defend exams from all viewpoints.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u150	Sure! If the honourable Member says so!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u151	It is wrong because it dries up the system and, instead of making the evaluation work for the system, it makes the system work for the evaluation — it is the old story of, instead of having exams for schools, we have schools for exams. It is wrong because it creates the so-called "curricular functioning". Only the disciplines that have exams are taken seriously, the others are relegated to a secondary status or to the end of the examinations of the disciplines that are most important. It is wrong because he has not improved school success and, proof of this, are the retention levels that have increased, since the introduction of the exams, at all levels of schooling, except for 4. the year, but with the small nuance of which increased retention no. 3. the year, which confirmed the idea that boys are held in 3. the year before they arrive at the 4th exam. year. And it's also wrong because it's treated equally, in the worst way, which is different. And let's go to the old story: if we judge a fish for its ability to climb a tree,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u152	A fish climbing a tree? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u153	...he'll always think it's stupid. It is the old story of not allowing pedagogical differentiation before students who are different.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u154	Fish? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u155	But the exams are also wrong for another reason: because they are perfectly useless in a 20th century school, where students do not realize why they have to decorate information that is on the tip of their fingers or on the screen of a cell phone. That's not what we have to teach our students. We are using a system of evaluation from the 19th century and from the early 20th century for a school that is either from the 21st century, for students from the 21st century.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u156	Madam Member, I ask you to pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u157	on an isolated path in Europe, I perceive only this insistence on examinations as an exercise of conservatism, which will not resist the exercise of time, reality and progress. If the CDS — and the problem is this — if you want to be indignant about something to mark your opposition status, then I will give you some suggestions: you are unworthy of the overloaded classes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u158	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u159	Indignate yourself with the end of the special education allowance for so many families! Indign yourself with students with special educational needs that have no support! Be unworthy of the lack of teachers! Indignate yourself with the precariousness of the teachers! Indign yourself with students who have classes in containers or dining rooms!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u160	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u161	Indignant with the violence in dating and the levels of violence in dating in our schools! Indign yourself to drop out of school! And if you don't want to be angry with any of this, then have some humility and let someone get angry with it here! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u162	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the political statement I made today was on a measure taken by this government, on a new integrated evaluation model. It was not by my choice that the first political decision of this government and this Minister of Education had been about evaluation. This indicates that for this government this measure is very important and clearly defines what is a good teaching system or not. If it were another, they would have started another kind of decision. So, I repeat, it wasn't my choice. On this, I would also like to clarify that PSD and CDS do not have the power to cause reprobation. In the exercise of the autonomy of schools, they have to make the evaluation of students. I also remind you that in the report by the CNE (National Council for Education ), which Mrs. Odete John will certainly not have had the opportunity to read but will have the opportunity to see the cover, it is said that the application of a 30 % weighting to the classifications in the tests of Portuguese and Mathematics has a residual effect on the classification of students and that the contribution of the final examinations and tests of basic education to school retention is not relevant. This isn't what I'm saying, it's the CNE. As for the outrage, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I would also like the honourable Member to be angry—but this year will be possible, because there will be no national evidence to "uncover" data—with me and with the other parties of this House because there are schools in which, in the 1st century. the cycle, at the end of four years to learn Portuguese and Mathematics, the average of the results, so far in exams, was below two.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u164	But does the exam solve that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u165	It seems to me that this is the case of indignation, which is the case of scandal and the need for action. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u166	Only this year, thanks to this government, supported by you and this Minister of Education, we will not know. We won't know what happened in each school, and don't come to speak in continuous evaluation, because this existed before and will continue to exist,... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u167	... but, as you know, it depends on school for school, and the only instrument that ours would allow us to compare schools and evaluate how the system behaves was destroyed by this government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u168	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u169	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, first of all, I would like to note that the intervention she has made refers to a transitional rule and which only lasts this year. I would also like to say that, contrary to what you intend to believe in your intervention, what created instability was not the end of the national reviews of the 4. the year, which created instability was the creation of the national examinations of the 4. the year, which brought with it an unacceptable pressure on children and an atmosphere of discontent between families and teachers, who saw their children transformed into authentic "horse racing" and who saw the classrooms transformed into training rooms, with the sole objective of preparing for the examination. We know, sirs. Members, that continuous evaluation requires more human resources, that there be a follow-up of proximity to the student and that this is not the will of the CDS, that it was not the will of the PSD/CDS government, that they want to destroy the public school, and that the national examinations of the 4. the e of the 6. the years were instruments used for this. They are elements of selectivity in our educational system, with the social screening to be done right at the beginning, 1. the cycle of basic education. And for the CDS, it is clear that the national exams are, yes, alpha and omega of education, an obsession and an acute « examine», which is far from solving or contributing to any improvement in public school, and is, yes, a factor in exacerbating inequalities. By the way, Mrs Deputy, where was the CDS so concerned about education and education when the Government that was part of it fired 25,000 hired teachers? Where was this concern when the integrated government stopped paying study visits to the students of step A and step B? Where was this concern about the quality of education when your government increased the number of students per class, circled schools, perpetuated the shortage of human resources, with the deep lack of employees and psychologists in public schools? Where was that concern, Your Honor? We know that what the CDS wanted was a two-speed public school, one for those who could afford it and another, fragile, for the other children and young people. Mrs. Members, the end of the national examinations of 4. the e of the 6. the years are something that the CFP has been defending and the PS government measures in this area are measures that we follow and that do not go as far as we stand for, open prospects for positive evolution. The evaluation model based on final evidence is the opposite...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u170	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u171	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, the evaluation model based on final evidence is contrary to the logic of inclusive public school because it ignores the economic, social and cultural conditions of students and their families and does not ensure the pedagogical conditions corresponding to the requirements it places. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u172	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Germana Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u173	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the CDS, in the person of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, for the relevance of the theme brought here, relevance that stems from the swamp in which our education system is currently found. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u174	In fact, the current Minister of Education is the true Minister of Ziguezagues, because he now moves forward, now retreats from those who are completely lost and who is adjusting his agenda as he will be aware of the impossibility of implementing his Programme. When the Socialist Party has in fact the need to look after child poverty to justify, here, the evaluation model is assuming, of course, the weakness of the proposed model. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u175	Last week, in the middle of the school year, we witnessed the announcement by the Minister of Education of the optional allocation to the measurement tests, which once again creates enormous uncertainty and enormous instability within the educational community. Question : won't this optional model violate the principle of fairness with regard to student assessment? On several occasions, the Minister gave this Parliament assurance that everything was prepared for the implementation of the new evaluation model, but, after all, it is found that this Minister is very fast to announce and unable to carry out. [[All right!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u176	It is very fast to undo, but incompetent to build, and this, yes, is a ferocious attack on public school: first, it destroys itself and then you see what happens. [[PCP protests.]] It is also worth mentioning another perplexity, which is linked, as mentioned above, with the opening of a teacher's competition for the school year 2016 / 2017 for only 100 new places in the table, which is clearly below the 1000 vacancies put in the competition annually by the previous Government, to link teachers with successive contracts over the years. Is that how you fight job insecurity? After all, we are faced with a further setback by this government, with regard to the linkage of teachers, since the former Government has bound more than 4000.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u177	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u178	I'm done now, Mr. President. This Minister has begun badly and is going from bad to worse with the execution of a programme that is wounded from death to birth. As the people say, «What is born wrong, late or never right! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u179	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u180	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, today we are in fact discussing a transitional standard and that is the problem, because we have reached this situation because of the Minister's inability to carry out what he promised schools on 8 January. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u181	I certainly do not follow his analogy, to transform students into racing horses, but unfortunately I see the students to be transformed into guinea pigs of experimentalism...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u183	... an improvised and arrogant minister, whose first measure at the beginning of the calendar year was to transform an assessment that existed in a stable way in the system into a tack, which today is nothing. I did here today not necessarily defend the exams, although I know and know the position of the CDS on this, but, yes, the defense of the stability of the public school, which I think I deserve, and I continue, as Mr Porfirio Silva said, without understanding why, if all the instruments exist and can be placed on the ground, this stability has not been carried out, I or not subscribe to the model that was determined by this Government with the support of the left-wing parties. Madam Member, I ask whether, in this spirit of discrimination that appears or seemed to exist in public school with the examination system, the fact that, with this transitional model, there will be students who will benefit from an individual form that will allow them to recover school in subsequent years and others who, discriminatoryly, will not have access to this form, because each school may freely choose whether or not to perform the tests. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] And from here very soon we'll be doing the math to find out how many of these schools will meet this orientation or how many will leave their students without proof this year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u184	Mr João Ramos has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Important national productive sectors are now at risk of disappearing. Each holding that closes is a further contribution to increasing unemployment, increasing imports and reducing national sovereignty. Two important sectors with country's supply capacity live days of distress and its disappearance will be an irreparable loss. We are talking about dairy production, which, in parallel, also produces meat and pig farming, but the situation may extend to other livestock sectors. The integration process into the European Union and the common agricultural policy have closed more than 60 000 dairy farms, which will not reach today 6000, and have reduced the actual pig by 25 % in the last 25 years, moving the levels of self-supply of pig meat from 90 % to 60 %. Milk producers spend 35 cents to produce one kilogram of milk, but only receive 22 cents when they sell it. Pigmeat producers spend 1, 5 € on average to produce a kilogram of meat, which is then sold at a maximum of 1, 10 €. And this happens because meat from other countries enters Portugal and the large distribution chains multiply promotions, using pork to attract customers to other products. It is important to note that this happens in two of Europe's most modern and organized sectors, which are quite competitive in neoliberal language. This modernization and this organization corresponded to an appeal from government officials, giving guarantees of success if such happens. Believing this speech, many producers have been indebted to modernising farms and meeting growing demands for animal welfare and food quality. In the case of milk many producers have been indebted to even buy quotas that are now worth nothing. The European Union, which, through its integration mechanisms, has created the problem, now sends the solution, or at least the panacea, to the responsibility of the Member States, which have nothing more. It is gratifying that the Council of Ministers for Agriculture does not take decisions, that it has used the money to intervene in emergency situations to pay for the implications of political decisions in the embargo on Russia and that now, in the face of the real emergency, it says that there is no money available. What will happen to a Europe that gets millions when speculators are afflicted and can't find coughs if this distress is on the side of the producers? It should be borne in mind that the end of the quota scheme has been decided, and confirmed, since 1999 and in consulate of different governments and of different party geometry, without the fact that the defence of the right to produce has never been important enough to lead a minister to oppose the voting of the instruments that eliminated the milk quotas. The CFP will deliver this week a draft resolution that meets the concerns of pig farmers. It also held a public hearing yesterday on the milk sector with the aim of listening to what measures will need to be taken, which are of different order. It is essential, at the immediate point of view, to require support from Brussels so that national production of milk and pigmeat does not disappear. The country has the right to produce, it is unacceptable that it is even admitted as a solution the voluntary reduction of productive capacity. This is the type of proposal that is of interest to countries, large producers, central and northern Europe. Each liter of milk that Portugal does not produce will be produced in Ireland or the Netherlands. It is necessary to replace a production regulation system, call quotas or anything else. It is not acceptable to say that the European rules and the single market do not allow us to act, when we see that Spain takes a number of measures preventing the entry, for example, of Portuguese milk into Galicia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u187	In 2015, according to the sector, 100 million kilograms of national milk ceased to enter Spain due to interference by the governments of Spain and Galicia. As a CNA leader said last week, while the Spanish authorities controlled the Portuguese-milked autotanks, the Portuguese authorities controlled the tractors that manifested themselves in defense of national production. There must be courage to face the large distribution, which continues to accumulate profits, even when those who produce for it only accumulate losses. There must be a requirement on the labelling of national production and the large distribution has resisted. It must be verified whether there is no dumping on imports of meat and milk which lower prices paid in Portugal. ASAE also requires greater attention through strong, visible and dissuasive action. It is also necessary to intervene within the payment deadlines. The producers, in addition to receiving little, still receive often late. Studies on the distribution of value along the agri-food chain need to be reviewed and recast to then intervene politically in order to ensure that this distribution is fair. These problems are, unfortunately, not now in pig farming, nor in milk, which has been paid under the European average for six years, although some, like the parties that supported the previous government, want to believe that the problem has only begun now. For example, in the case of pig farming, where PSD and CDS are now working in recommendations to the Government, but in the September Council of Ministers of Agriculture, in which the Minister of Assumption Cristos participated, there was no word to put the problems of pig farmers. The institutional intervention of the CFP in defense of national production comes by far. Today, more than ever, it is necessary to safeguard the productive sectors. from here we greet those who fight in defense of their farms and the right to produce. from here we urge the Government not to spare its efforts to defend the national production and food sovereignty of the country. For this purpose, the contribution of the CFP will not be lacking. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u188	Mr President, I am aware that five of you have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u189	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u190	All right. Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u191	Mr President, Mr Ramos, I thank you for bringing back the issue of agriculture and in particular the issue of milk production in Portugal. Mr President, the CFP has not yet realized that at the moment it supports a government of the Socialist Party, because it has come here to make a set of criticisms of the particular situation of milk producers, for which the Socialist Party is not doing anything strictly, the Government and the Minister of the Socialist Party have done nothing to resolve this matter. Portugal, over the years, either with governments of the Socialist Party or with governments of the PSD and the CDS, in all circumstances, has always been opposed to changing milk quotas, even though, at the time the Socialist Party was in the Government, it ended up signing the extinction of quotas in 2014. There is, therefore, a matter on which the Socialist Party must respond, and for this reason, your speech, honourable Member, is very aimed at the Socialist Party's bench and the government that you are supporting. For example, in the context of milk, last year, through the PSD/CDS Government, with the Minister for Assumption Cristas, who you had the opportunity to quote or mention, gave some EUR 4, 5 million support to farmers with national and Community funds because the sector was in crisis. The PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ) met to change the distribution of value in the sector, between production, processing and marketing. This has been done and an understanding has been established in this area. Now, strictly nothing has been done in the last four months in which the Socialist Party is responsible for governance. The Minister of Agriculture, on this subject, has not yet done anything rigorously! So the only thing Mr Ramos has forgotten to say is that this Socialist Party and this Minister of Agriculture have been able to do something that has never happened in the past four years: to put the dairy sector against the government and against the Minister of Agriculture himself, for nothing they have done in this regard. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u192	You now have the floor for a second request for clarification, Mr Pedro Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u193	Mr President, Mr. João Ramos, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this debate to the Assembly of the Republic. The situation in both milk and pigmeat production is dramatic. We are facing a serious imbalance in the market for milk and pigmeat in the European Union and Portugal is paying this imbalance in an absolutely dramatic way, with serious damage to producers. It must be said that, at the root of this question, there is indeed market deregulation. And there is market deregulation, from the outset, when, on 31 March last year, the European Union decided to put an end to milk quotas. It was from that point on that the situation worsened and production prices decreased. On the other hand, milk production in Europe, and also in Portugal, as is obvious, has grown. Therefore, this imbalance needs to be faced with concrete measures at European level. Using the argument that this is a problem related to the embargo on Russia or the decrease in the consumption of milk in China, or anything else, has always a little bit of truth, but seeks to conceal the real, fundamental problem, which is the deregulation of the market and the end of milk quotas. This is also about the situation in pigmeat. What happens is that there are countries like Portugal that do not produce more than 55% of their needs and there are others that exceed 160%. And the fact is that the large distribution uses these imbalances to make dumping and to import meat and milk, so as to reduce the price to production and crush our producers. It is necessary to intervene in this area and it is necessary to defend the replacement of milk quotas in the European Union. And that is the question I would like to ask Mr João Ramos: what does he think is fundamental in addressing this problem that we are living in? Is it continuing to want to return to some kind of old CAP ( common agricultural policy ) before the 1980s when the public record paid for the storage of tonnes of milk products in Europe or to solve the problem of excess production and market imbalance?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u194	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u195	Where is the real heart of the problem? Is it not essential that in our country, our Government should take action to ensure that price volatility is not always borne by production, as has been done, but rather distributed by production, industry and large distribution, which is precisely who has gained this speculation? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u196	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Abel Baptista and Mr. Pedro Soares, I am grateful for the questions they have raised and I begin to answer the simplest ones. With regard to what Mr Soares has said, the CAP rules have never been the solution, in fact, in these two specific problems, were the CAP rules which have referred us to this situation. Therefore, the CFP has no doubt that it is essential, for now, immediately, to safeguard these sectors, not to allow them to disappear and, on the other hand, to restore regularisation regimes both in production and in trade and to intervene with the large distribution, which is of fundamental importance. Mr. Abel Baptista, the CFP has always defended national production and will continue to defend national production. And you heard very well what I said in the rostrum, demanding a set of matters and warning and urging the government to do so. This is called coherence! I know that, perhaps on the side of the CDS, which has now left the Government and is presenting draft resolutions 'a meter' to solve the problems of pig farming, they may not realize this, but what is true - he said in the gallery and Mr. Deputy did not object to it - is that, in the Council of Ministers of Agriculture of September, which was the one in which the support for these sectors were decided, where Mr. Minister Assumption Cristas was present, there was no word for the sector of pig farming, while the other countries put their problems. With regard to the issue of the end of quotas and on whom it is responsible, Mr Deputies, for the truth, the process began in 1999, there were several Ministers of various governments, and no Portuguese Minister voted against these instruments in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u198	It was four governments!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u199	The truth is that in 2008 when these issues were resumed, countries such as Germany and Austria voted against. [[That's with the PS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u200	I know, but in the PSD government / CDS, with Minister Sevinate Pinto, the same thing happened, but instead of ending the quotas in 2008, they decided to end them in 2015, but they decided to end them in the same! There were countries that in this process voted against. Germany and Austria voted against, France abstained in 2008, but Portugal always voted in favour of these matters. Finally, Mr. Abel Baptista spoke of the aids that were defined by the previous Government, speaking up to a fat number, which fills the eyes, which was the EUR 4, 5 million—and I think that it can even be a little above, it can be 4, 8 million — but let's see the numbers on the contrary, because if we see this by litre of milk, it represents a quarter of support per litre of milk.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u201	But this year is zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u202	Now, a producer to receive 1 € has to produce 400 liters of milk. And more: at the time that this was decided, the prices paid for production have reduced 40 times more than the one that was given support. Even more: they did not apply the modulation and therefore the large producers received much and the small producers received very little. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u203	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u204	Mr President, Mr Ramos, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the opportunity of the subject you have brought for discussion, until it coincides with the protests of the Portuguese farmers, who have been protesting against the crisis in the dairy sector and in the pigmeat sector. This is not a crisis today, it is not a new crisis, but today, in fact, it has reached all limits, and what is curious is that the European Commission, in relation to the dairy crisis, limits itself to temporary reduction in production, through voluntary agreements, i.e. through national measures. Therefore, what the European Commission is doing is referring to the Member States to the resolution of a problem that the European Union has created and that its CAP, and those who have defended it, has helped to encourage it. There was consensus on the additional package to support farmers, within the rules of the CAP, but the decision on the source of financing of aid was postponed, which is absolutely incomprehensible and, to all the titles, regrettable. Mr Ramos, what we believe is that Portuguese farmers really need a lasting solution that answers above all the question of milk prices, because, with the increase in supply on the European market, the sector has witnessed a brutal drop in production prices, at a time when farmers are literally being crushed at the end of the European Union quotas, where, in fact, the previous government, as it is known, has many responsibilities. But what is happening with Portuguese farmers is also the result of the guidelines of the common agricultural policy, which destroyed all public regulatory instruments and eventually imposed a liberal reform where farmers are neither seen nor found because what matters is the market. What we consider essential is to create mechanisms that guarantee the right that each country can produce, because we must also guarantee our food sovereignty. But there is another element that needs to be brought to the debate. It is that what is happening shows us that, in fact, the failure of the CAP itself has never been as visible as it is today. Mr Ramos, does it not seem to you that there is indeed a turning point in the CAP policies that put producers and food sovereignty of each people at the heart of European concerns, rather than Europe, to remain exclusively concerned with markets? Oh, my God! It seems to me that this is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u206	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Nuno Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u207	Mr President, Mr. João Ramos, I would like to begin by thanking you for the subject you have brought here today. We well know the importance of these two sectors in the Portuguese agri-food complex and the crisis they are going through, and this is of greatest relevance today. But, Mr. João Ramos, also the Portuguese Communist Party has never been in such a good position to take concrete action, rather than protest. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u208	You are an integral part of this government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u210	... have chosen the current Minister of Agriculture, voted in favour and applauded the State Budget, applauded and voted in favour of the Government Programme and, therefore, it is time to assume that responsibility. [[PSD applause.]] Stop saying bad about the past, you have to act, take action and make it happen. I understand your dilemma, Mr. Member, and I also realize that the Portuguese today are a bit of a struggle about what the CFP thinks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u211	Only PSD is being fought!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u212	... because the CFP cannot present in its electoral programme measures aimed at establishing a maximum price scheme in fuels and at strengthening the energy schemes subsidized to the agricultural sector in order to lower the costs of context,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u213	And I beat us for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u214	... and then, for the first time, in 40 years of history, applaud, standing, a Budget that brutally increases the cost of context and production costs for farmers. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. PCP Members, where are you? Oh, my God! Do you want to be on the side of production, reducing the cost of context, or do you want to be subordinate to a government that has done everything to increase the costs of agriculture? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u215	Mrs. Members of the CFP, for years and years, we have heard your defense of national products against the import of products competing with national products and now you are applauding a budget which lowers VAT on cereals, almonds and cashews, practically all imported and which are milk competitors? Oh, my God! After all, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, where are you, what is your position? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u216	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u217	I will now finish, Mr President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your aversion to the CAP, but I also understand your request for quotas in the CAP. The gentlemen. Members speak of the times when the previous Ministers went to the European Council, but your minister has already been to Brussels three times, he has never talked about quotas and I have not heard any claim. Two, one : either the Minister has heard crazies for you or you are the gentlemen who do not claim from this government what they have claimed in the past. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u218	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mr Nuno Serra, I am grateful for the questions they have raised and start by answering Mr Nuno Serra. Mr Nuno Serra, you can rest assured that what the CFP presented in its electoral programme has already been, and will be presented in many proposals we have brought here to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u220	And you're going to debate them!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u221	We do not, of course, have the assurance that they will be approved, but the honourable Member and his parliamentary group can make an important contribution to adopting a set of proposals which the CFP can bring here. [[You're going to help! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u222	Mr President, I shall be pleased to send you by email the intervention which has been made where we have clearly put those which are the demands of the CFP for these sectors. I realized that the honourable Member has been a little distracted, particularly in the discussion of the State budget, and did not realize that the CFP did not vote favourably on the issue which it referred to in respect of VAT in cereals beverages, as it did not notice that the fuels did not increase with the State budget but with a portarium prior to the State budget,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... matter with which the CFP does not agree. Mr. Deputy didn't get it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u223	You don't want to understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u224	...you're distracted, but I'm happy to send you a document that clearly shows what the PCP defends. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, the CFP assesses and understands that the European Union has a set of mechanisms that limit the development of our country. And here too, in the area of agriculture and production, these mechanisms exist. We therefore understand that it is not acceptable, and we will never accept, for example, a voluntary reduction in production, because the space that Portugal does not occupy must be occupied by others and that is not acceptable. But we certainly need to work towards an increase in production income. For example, in the dairy sector producers are losing between 5 and 10 cents per kilogram of milk. Now, as a cow produces 10 t / year, this may mean a loss of holdings from 500 to 1000 euros / year. It is therefore essential to do something about this. Even more because the country imports about 100 million litres of milk and 48 000 tonnes of cheese, when half of it could be produced in Portugal. Finally, as regards the guarantee of production prices, I would say that it is essential to intervene in the area of large distribution. The former PSD and CDS-PP government created something that is the PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ) but it did not or did not want to move in these matters and distribution continues to generate an important part of what is the effort and work of production, which is not admissible. The country has the right to produce. Instead of importing a set of materials, we have conditions to produce them and it is essential that this be done. Therefore, it is necessary to condition and pressure the large distribution. The former government has not done so and we hope that the current government will do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u225	Mr António Borges, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government and all of us regard these sectors as priority and determinants for the economic and social development of the country, as well as for the promotion of social and territorial cohesion. As is known and has already been said, the embargo on the sale of products to Russia and the withdrawal of consumption and imports from China have a strong impact on the pig farming sector and at the end of milk quotas also represents a strong impact on the dairy sector in Portugal. It is therefore crucial to concentrate efforts on the relief of companies' treasury and to safeguard the income of pig farming and milk production. That is what the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture are working on. The Minister of Agriculture has met several times with the sectors since he took possession, probably more in these months than in recent years, as evidenced by the recently created crisis office, with obvious results in new production orders. It also achieved with its European partners that the problem and crisis of the pig and dairy sectors were scheduled for discussion at the meeting of the Council of Ministers for Agriculture, against the will of some European ministers of agriculture. It is also known that for the preparation of this Council of Ministers it met with the two sectors and called for contributions to the resolution of this serious crisis. The Minister has taken Brussels, contrary to what has already been said, to establish a production quota scheme, which, in the case of the dairy sector, has allowed for the last few decades to keep prices balanced, and will continue to defend increased support for storage, price thresholds for products such as milk powder and butter and other temporarily limiting measures of production, such as the reduction of the number of breeding females in the pigmeat sector and support for production by head of cattle. I also refer to specific policy aspects for these sectors, such as the exceptional measure of the partial exemption from social security contributions, which deserves our agreement, as well as a recent proposal by the Minister for the creation of a sub-thematic milk programme, which has already been announced. I would like to leave a final note to Mr João Ramos. We all realize that the answers to these problems are not solely national and require joint responses in the European area. Question : has the former Government allowed it to worsen and drag to the limit, or even beyond the limit, problems? Mr. João Ramos, did the previous government do everything it had to do or didn't do anything?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u227	Mr António Borges, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u228	Finally, I wonder whether this whole problem needs a joint response in the European area or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u229	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u230	Mr President, I thank Mr António Borges for the question he has raised, but I think it is from everyone's knowledge that the problems have not arisen now, suddenly, and therefore his question about whether the previous government has done what it has to do is rhetorical. For example, I said there in the Tribune that for six years milk has been paid below the European average, so the problems have not arisen now, and the former Government has not done what it could have done to safeguard this sector. Mr President, we know the position of the Minister for Agriculture, which seems to have already referred to the position that it will be in favour of replacing the quota scheme in the milk sector, but we believe that more is needed, a set of decisions must be taken in Portugal. For example, in relation to existing support, there may be a limitation on the access of producers to support that has been defined, i.e. in relation to the reduction of TSU, there may be some producers which already have social security or tax debts and are already limited to such support, and therefore measures are needed to ensure these matters. It is therefore necessary to take decisions in Portugal but it is also necessary to « beat the foot » in Brussels, in particular by taking initiatives with governments from other countries that go through the same problems as Portugal, in order to try to take joint action with these countries in order to safeguard common interests. Then there is also a need to limit the activity and performance of the large distribution, and we think that it is within the reach of the Government to make such choices. Initially, I said that a set of aid financed by Brussels and not supported by the Portuguese budget is needed to ensure that sectors do not disappear, a system for regulating production and marketing needs to be reintroduced...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u231	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u232	Finally, Mr President, saying that the Members of the CFP are available to raise these issues in the European Parliament, as they have already raised, and we will see there the concern of the Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP in the European Parliament and what they are available to do, what initiatives are available to take on these matters. Finally, it is necessary to move into the value chain and this is also a matter where the government can do something, it is within its reach. In view of the fact that we have two sectors in which the country has the capacity to produce what is its own needs, we cannot be totally dependent on a matter of food sovereignty and national sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u233	For the last political statement, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the World Water Day and the Greens would like to bring the issue of water pollution to the debate in this plenary. Perhaps it would be important to remind the ladies and gentlemen. Members who, in the joint position which the Greens have signed with the PS, this issue of water pollution has been a highlight in our agreements and negotiations. Improving our water resources was a matter which the Greens called for to highlight in this joint position. The Greens signed this World Water Day with a march through Alviela. Why? Because Alviela is a symbol of a long struggle against water pollution, with many and many promises, many of which are not met and therefore with many problems not yet solved definitively. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this political statement, The Greens would like to approach the Tejo River in particular. I don't know if the ladies and gentlemen. Members know but the first environmental petition that entered the Assembly of the Republic more than 30 years ago was about the pollution of the Tagus. Now, past these decades—you can say so—the Tejo remains an environmental priority in the country because of the many problems that it still faces. The problems are identified. Of course, this is an international river that transports pollution from Spain and with scarce flow, and we know that the Albufeira Convention is not guaranteeing the ecological flows. Therefore, the strengthening of the relationship with Spain in the preservation of the Tejo is an imperative and it is necessary, as so many times the Greens have said, even during this legislature, that the review of the Albufeira Convention is also an imperative, ensuring average flow metrics in shorter periods to bring the means closer to the effectively existing flows in the Tejo and to ensure that minimum flows are suitable for the preservation of ecosystems. In national territory, the outbreaks of pollution and discharges, therefore, are also serious and are identified, in particular in companies such as Centroliva, Celtejo, Vila Velha de Rhodão, or in ETAR ( Residual Water Treatment Station ) such as that of Mação and Abrantes. The question is: why do pollution sources continue to contribute to the degradation of the Tejo River? It is that, in fact, there are weaknesses conducive to the continuation of these environmental crimes on the river Tejo. And the weaknesses are also found. Just to give a few examples, let us talk about two responsibilities for companies. The self-control of companies is very spacious and must be more regular. Monthly control is not enough, there are times when day-to-day control must be required. On the other hand, investments to guarantee better environmental standards are clearly secondary to companies and should be required under the penalty of, if these industries degrade the natural heritage as they do, they do not have the conditions to function. Only as an example, Celtejo has an environmental investment plan planned for 2020. It's late! It's late and it should be anticipated. But there are also clearly responsibilities on the part of the State. The lack of human resources in public structures such as the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) is evidence and contracting needs are recognized by APA itself to improve action in the field and to be able to perform monitoring functions effectively. It tells APA that at least 10 more officials would be required to act on the ground; the Government committed itself to hiring five more employees in 2016, which is not enough, even with the link between IGAMAOT ( General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning ), the CCDR ( Commission for Regional Coordination and Development ) and the SEPNA ( Nature and Environment Protection Service, the Republican National Guard ). Another responsibility of the State is impunity for polluters. For a long period of time, no inspection reports were approved allowing the punishment of the offenders. Therefore, the speed of processes with principle, medium and end is crucial to contain the action of pollutants. In short, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a need for measures to be taken to save the Tejo, for example the most regular control, the demand for environmental investments, more human resources for monitoring and not to facilitate the impunity of pollutants. Faced with complaints made by citizens and associations, and also by us, Ecological Party « The Greens », in the face of evidence of aggravating pollution in the Tejo River, particularly since the third quarter of 2015, the Government has set up a follow-up commission on the pollution of the Tejo River in January 2016, which will produce conclusions until the end of June 2016. We will await these conclusions with serious responsibility and, in conclusion, I would like to highlight one question: the struggle of the people is fundamental, with their denunciation, protest and demand to save the Tejo. All by the Tejo must be a maximum that we all must adopt in this Parliament, so that we will not start talking about it within 30 years. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u235	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u236	I will answer everyone at the end, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u237	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by welcoming Mrs Heloísa Apolónia's speech and by telling her that the Socialist Party endorses the concerns expressed here. in this sense, on the basis of the practice we have had in monitoring the discussion at the level of the Committee on the Environment and the Plenary, and also on the part of the Government regarding the measures already taken, we believe that we must, indeed, take decisions that have become effective to solve the problems that have existed for a long time but have not had any approach leading to solutions. There were purely rhetorical approaches, especially when the problems became more visible, and all those who follow the river's life from Vila Velha de Rhodão to Lisbon know well what pollution is, with the inherent losses, including the killing of species. The honourable Member referred to the Albufeira Convention, also mentioned earlier. In fact, this Convention, which had its time, urgently needs to be reviewed with regard to the quality and quantity of river flows, since it is no longer just a problem of quantity of the flow coming from Spain but also of its quality. The honourable Member said that a lot of water is of poor quality and that is a serious problem for the Portuguese territory, including the ability to deal with river problems along the stream running in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u239	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u240	Then, as far as pollution sources are concerned, there are much more sources of pollution than those indicated. The issues of agriculture and pig farming require an involvement and commitment that has to involve many entities, to start with local authorities, to whom more power must be given, and then to the central administration which, indeed, must be equipped with the means necessary for this purpose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u241	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u242	Mr President, the CDS-PP accompanies concerns about the sustainability of the river Tejo in both plenary and 11. the Commission. Indeed, the problems of pollution in the Tejo are a constant for many years, but they have had a substantial worsening in the last year. We believe that it is possible to reconcile economic activities with the sustainability of the Tagus. The pollution caused by agriculture and agro-industry has been much pointed out, but we cannot forget that these are fundamental economic activities. We cannot say that these are activities that we do not want them to exist, which is necessary to internalize the costs of pollution and the companies that are prevaricative are not taken as the generality of companies. in this sense, the CDS-PP presented a draft resolution, which is already scheduled for plenary, which provides for an articulation between APA and GNR, i.e. the elements of SEPNA, with greater and better supervision because we believe, according to what has been transmitted to us throughout the discussion process of this subject, that is one of the failures pointed to the system, because, in the bottom, the GNR cannot apply the fines because it does not have the means to do so. As far as the inspection is concerned, by the words of the Minister for the Environment, 16 new inspectors have already been hired and we believe that this situation can be overcome, with the linkage which, in the discussion of the State budget, the Minister of Internal Administration has transmitted to us, referring to the welcomeness of this measure that we have presented in the draft resolution. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u243	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the position of the PSD Parliamentary Group on the pollution of the Tejo River that occurs in national territory, but also, as we all know, it occurs in Spanish territory, demand, from our point of view, three very simple things. On the one hand, it requires an intensification of supervision by Portuguese authorities with regard to national territory. It also calls for greater cross-border coordination and, finally, awareness of the neighbouring country for the need for a more effective fight against pollution in the Tejo River on the Spanish side. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, our position on this matter is very clear, and we have always been in line with this position, both as Members of the Assembly of the Republic and in the Government. I remind the House that the PSD, together with the CDS-PP, presented draft resolution No 1537 / XII, approved in the previous Parliament, in which, among the many recommendations it made, called for an urgent investigation into the conditions in which companies and other entities discharge or pollute the river. I also recall, as my colleague Bruno Coimbra has already mentioned, that it was the former Government which, after several meetings with the Spanish officials, strengthened the rules of the Albufeira Convention to improve the coordination and monitoring of rivers in drought. Finally, I would also like to reply, with the permission of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, to Mr Matias : it was not the previous Government that left pending approval 120 inspection procedures. It was exactly the opposite! I recall that it was by virtue of a mega-operation initiated last August, at the initiative of the previous Government, that 120 inspection procedures were instituted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u245	The clarifications came late!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u246	That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions left here are: at the end of five months, the Government which the Greens Ecological Party integrates or supports, how many inspection procedures have it raised? What are the demands of the Government that the Greens Ecological Party supports on this matter, i.e. those inspection processes we have initiated? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u247	For a new request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the clarification that has been given to me now, but it has, of course, been late. It was precisely during the pre-election campaign that the PSD made an assembly of PSD and CDS-PP delegates from the districts of Portalegre, Castelo-Branco and Santarém to, at that time, say they were very concerned about the Tejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u249	Let's see what your government will do!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u250	They're too late! I congratulate Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for bringing here once again the problems of the Tejo that are identified: the problem of the waters coming from Spain, i.e. the control of the waters and radioactivity that may possibly bring; the problems of the very serious pollution outbreaks and the obstacles to the migration of fish species and the navigation of small boats, the fruit and the result of artificial obstacles placed on the Tejo, and, as it is known, some even irregularly, as is the case of the crossing of the Pego power plant, and the irregularity of the tails dependent on a renegotiating of the Albueira Convention. My question is directly related to another aspect. According to the Water Framework Directive, in December 2015 all surface water masses in Portugal should be considered good, and this assessment is not a subjective assessment, follows and results from precise technical criteria. Well, the water mass of the Açafal river is considered mediocre and mediocre, finally, the naked eye. For someone who has common sense, that is, in fact, very bad, not to say bad, but, finally, we admit that the technical criteria classify it as a mediocre. I would like to ask Mrs Heloísa Apolónia whether it is acceptable to extend the deadline for the treatment of the Açafal river until 2027. Is it acceptable for that degrading situation to continue for another 11 years, continuing to pollute the environment? Is this admissible?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u251	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u252	I will end by asking a second question: is it acceptable that the serious situation of the Brother's album, whose water is considered merely reasonable—and this is a benevolent classification— continues for another five years, depending on the plans being drawn up, in the state in which it is at present? In summary, is so much permissiveness permitted with whom it pollutes? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u253	For a final request for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting the Greens Ecological Party for bringing the theme of water in particular from the river Tejo to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. I also greet the many activists and the environmental associative movement on this is World Water Day. The commemoration of this efemeride in 2016 has a particular aspect, which we highlight, that is to focus on the links between water and work. In fact, this issue is not of mere importance considering the role that workers, and, in particular, public services, have in the protection of this fundamental human right to life on our planet. During the PSD/CDS-PP government, the attack on public services and their workers was very clear on the pretext of alleged state fat reductions and other arguments that have caused disastrous consequences that cannot now be spread. We cannot therefore turn off the situation that we have had the opportunity to witness, particularly in the Tejo River, this political option. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the question I ask you is: how can a real fight be made against this environmental scourge without the existence of the corresponding strengthening of material and human resources in order to strengthen the presence on the ground, the inspection action, the control action of the entities involved in this area? Is it not absolutely necessary to reverse the emptying of public services and structures that protect and have responsibilities in the area of the environment, emptying which, without a doubt, has led to an increase in the difficulties of intervention in this area? I also consider it sufficient to improve the link between the services that exist in this area to respond to the challenges we face. By the way, I'm leaving a small observation, the size of the liver. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira was talking about the opening of these 120 processes, but what were the practical consequences of these processes? How did they develop? What was your conclusion?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u255	The government is yours, rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u256	That's a lazy answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u257	Here's the problem! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u258	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for having spoken on this issue, which is a good indication of the concern of all regarding the pollution of the river Tejo. This is already a positive starting point for us to be able to produce work together in this legislature. If you will allow me, I will begin by answering the question put by Mrs Ana Mesquita, linking her with that of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, which concerns human resources, because it seems to me to be a matter of the greatest importance. In the past legislation, we have said so many times that when we are firing public officials or freezing their admission, it is the degradation of public services that we are promoting, as well as the inability of the State to respond to what is fundamental to the citizens and to the preservation of our heritage, namely natural heritage. Then it gives us this: there are no human resources to monitor and to give the necessary answer to what is fundamental! So this is a key issue. If we want to talk about monitoring - and to talk about combating Tejo pollution, we must necessarily talk about monitoring - we must put the need for more human resources on the table and we must assume that this is a reality that needs to be realized. The Greens are going to fight for it. They have already fought for this, in the joint position they have signed with the Socialist Party, and we would like to see all the parliamentary groups engaged in this matter because it is fundamental. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS, spoke precisely about the articulation of APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) with SEPNA (Naturity and Environment Protection Service), but I do not know what results can give the articulation of entities that already have sufficient resources. Articulation is a fundamental issue, attention, but we have to look at reality as it is. We can articulate everything, but with the shortage of employees we don't go there. This is something we would like to stress. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, of the Socialist Party, I would also like to mention that the review of the Albufeira Convention is a priority. Insufficient flows with regular pollution result in a great calamity that the Tejo River has witnessed with deep regularity as well. With regard to pollution sources, I gave only a few examples, but of course many others will have to add. Mr. Carlos Matias of BE, I fully agree with you when he says that there are many quality water masses in Portugal, a problem that we should be careful about and not put our head in the sand. to what you said only liked to add the following: when we invest we make the situations more difficult to be solved and perhaps even more expensive. Therefore, when we are delaying investments that are imperative, we are rendering a bad service to the objective that we want to pursue, in this case the work of depolating a river that is fundamental in so many sectors and in so many regions of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u260	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u261	I shall now finish, Mr President, by answering Mr João Paulo Oliveira what other Members did not resist to answer him, even in the question that they were asking me. It is, in fact, that you have started in the pre-campaign with many processes, but they have not finished them, and many have been stuck in the drawer and have not come to see the light at the bottom of the tunnel. Therefore, impunity was one of the consequences that resulted from the processes that you have raised. In order to answer directly to the question raised by the honourable Member, please read question No 240 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) the Greens directed to the Government, and see the Government's response. There's all the answers to your curiosity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u262	Mrs. Members, having completed the political statements, we will begin the third point of our agenda today, which consists in the joint assessment of petition No 308 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the CGTP-IN — General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion, protesting against the theft of pensions and the increase in the age of reform and draft law No 140 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Valorizes long-term contribution careers by ensuring early retirement without penalties to beneficiaries who complete 40 years of discounts ( CFP ). First of all, for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the CGTP-IN / Inter-reformatted and more than 60 000 citizens who have subscribed and dynamized this petition against the theft of pensions and the increase in the retirement age, by valuing long-term careers and who accompany this discussion here in the galleries. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition we are discussing today date 2013, when the previous PSD/CDS government launched a deep attack on the rights and dignity of thousands of pensioners and pensioners, proposing final cuts in pensions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the most important achievements of the April Revolution is surely the right to social protection. In our country there are thousands of workers with long careers, started at 14, 15 and 16 years of age, many in particularly exhausting sectors. If, today, these 40-year-old workers decide to retire before the age of 65, they suffer gross reductions in the value of their pensions. Let us take as an example a textile worker who has begun to work and to contribute to social security at the age of 16. With 40 years of contributions I would be 56 years old. I could access the flexibility scheme because I am over 55 years old and 30 contributions. However, the application of the reduction factor would mean a cut of 36 % in the value of your pension, already built on the basis of discounts on a very low national minimum wage. That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the CFP today brings to the discussion a bill aimed at access to reform without penalties or reductions, regardless of age, to workers who have at least 40 years of contributing career. It is unacceptable to impose the time that people were forced to work to the limit of their lives and forces. It is in respect of the contribution that thousands of workers have already made to the country, to the production of wealth and to the public social security system that we present this proposal. This bill is a fundamental contribution to the valorization of work and workers, in defending the dignity of all those who have an entire working life and is a measure of progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u264	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Moura Soeiro now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to greet the CGTP-IN / Inter-Reformatted and representatives of the petitioners here present and, through them, I would also like to greet the more than 60 000 people who brought to this Parliament at the end of 2013 their indignation against the theft of pensions and against the increase in the retirement age that was carried out in that same year by the PSD Government and the CDS. It should be remembered that, with the previous government, it was not only the age of reform that increased, it was the sustainability factor that was aggravated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u266	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u267	... imposing a cut in pensions of more than 13 %; it was the overwhelming majority of pensions that were frozen; it was the decrease of its real value in relation to the increase in inflation; it was social policies, with health cuts, in the transport of patients, in the solidarity complement for the elderly who always meant the greatest impoverishment and the penalization of pensioners. contrary to what the right party likes to insinuate, the threats to the sustainability of social security do not result from the prolongation of the average life expectancy nor result from any demographic fatality. What threatens public social security is precisely the attempts to pervert the logic of solidarity among generations that sustains it, are the appetites for privatization from a part of social security to decapitalize it for the benefit of private business and are the policies that promote unemployment, precariousness, informalization of work, invitations to emigration. These measures and policies, yes, decapitalize social security and are threats. With the budget we approved last week, what we started to do was to reverse some of these measures that penalized pensioners. It was the cancellation of some of the evils that were done to pensioners by the PSD and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u268	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u269	...and it was the interruption of the impoverishment cycle, which was the policy of the former government for pensioners. We started to take this path with the defrosting of pensions, with the strengthening of the CSI (a solidarity complement for the elderly) and with the exemptions from the moderate rates. But there are still many other injustices that need to be corrected and the working group that will now begin functions, in which the Left Block will also participate, with members of the Government and the Socialist Party, must be an opportunity to do this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u270	Oh, is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u271	One of the most gruesome injustices that needs to be corrected is that of those who have worked their entire lives and who, after 40 years of discounts and contributions, if they want to retire, suffer a penalty that may be greater than 1 / 3 of their reform. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of people who, in many cases, started working before the age of 16, at a time when the minimum age for work was not regulated or not respected. We are talking about people who, in most cases, had very low wages and therefore have lower pensions and who start to have totally miserable pensions with the application of the cut-off resulting from the reduction factor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u272	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u273	I will finish, Mr. President. We are talking about people to whom it is said, in practice, that, after 40 years of discounts, they have to work to the limit of their lives. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the right to reform in full and without penalties, at the end of 40 years without discounts, is a fair measure that the Left Block defends now and in the future. For this reason, we follow the request of the CGTP and the initiatives to implement this measure. And if they tell us that it is not possible to implement it now, then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to make possible what is necessary and what is right, which is reform after 40 years of discounts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u274	To speak on behalf of the PSD, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to centralize this intervention in what we believe to be the essential theme of the two documents presented here today, whether the petition signed by the CGTP, or Bill No 140 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) of the CFP Parliamentary Group, i.e. pensions. In fact, the pension system is an issue that concerns not only the generation of current pensioners, such as the generation of current workers and future pensioners. It is a matter of great importance, which brings together the problem of the sustainability of public pension systems. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two ways: or we focus, once again, our debate in the past and then we will again remember the austerity that in 2010 and 2011 the Socialist Government brought with the cuts of salaries of the public service, the freezing of pensions, and out there, or then we focus our debate on the present and the future. We prefer this second path.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u276	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u277	In fact, it is important to look forward and seek solutions for the lives of millions of Portuguese people. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer ignore that our country has a real problem of financing public pension systems, and this problem of financing requires a serious study, an effort of all to find solutions. The PSD is today, as it has always been, concerned about pensioners, both present and future. [[All right!]] [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u278	And, contrary to what has been erroneously stated several times, the PSD is available to discuss, to debate seriously, the problems affecting Portuguese. Does the current government have the same will? Or are you going to delay the solution of this problem again? In fact, it seems that the Socialist Party continues from mucosal ears to the proposal for reform of the social security system that the President of the PSD has presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u279	What is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u280	Unless the current PS feels seduced by the proposals of its communist partner, proposals like those that bring us today the PCP. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is imperative to think about the sustainability of the public pension system. A social security reform is needed that brings sustainability to pensions and reduces the deficit in the social security system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u281	Justice for those who work, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u282	But we cannot limit ourselves to revenue and expenditure issues. We must go further and seek to create fair criteria for the allocation of pensions. We want and must combat the injustices and social injustices that sometimes pension systems also generate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u283	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Riso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think I should welcome the PSD to the club of those concerned about this pension system. The Portuguese pension system has been built in a way that is insufficient today to fulfill all that it has promised pensioners. This should never come out of the discussion, in a transparent way, in a clear way. It is a theme of the past, it is a theme of the present and it is a theme of the future. It must always be taken into account all the past that has brought us here, the set of commitments that exist with a generation in a society in which aging is very fast due to the disappearance of the basic generation, it must also be seen in view of the decrease in the income of the people who work and which, consequently, will provide less resources to social security in order to meet their plans. This issue must always be shared by this House, regardless of who is in the government and in the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u285	You have to speak to the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u286	I speak for everyone, because everyone always has stones to throw at this issue, running away from responsibilities and often taking advantage of the pension system to sometimes in resource maneuvers, support the Budget or budget deficits, moving into things that should not be moved. And one of the things you shouldn't move on is what's not ours, it's about the pensioners' money and it should have been a reservation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Obviously, now a contest will be held to see who first moved in my cheese, but it will come to a conclusion... [[PSD protests.]] Don't get angry, don't get angry! They probably all moved over many years because the system has no reserves. The truth is that this system has been built without reservation, and the fact that it does not cause us to have these bitter words from time to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u287	You have to talk to that side of the hall!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u288	Sir, it's for everyone! It has to do with the way the model has been built long before, even before, there are economic crises with this depth, long before there is a super negative demographic effect on the future of the pension system, because that also counts. And even more: social systems are built in an ascending way and when there are disruptions like the one that existed and when there are setbacks, particularly in the average salaries and discounts for social security, these problems will always be aggravated and what we have seen in recent years has been a decrease in Portuguese income and a consequent decrease in revenues for social security, with long-term effects that will be much more devastating than those we can face today. The foreseeable variables and unpredictable variables that impeding social security must always keep this concern on the table and never turn their backs on the problem, looking at it and looking for durable and above all transparent solutions, because that is what must be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u289	How are you going to vote on the CFP proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u290	Mr President, I conclude by saying that there is an approved State budget but, above all, there are the Great Plan Options adopted. And in the Great Plan Options there is, visibly, social security, what the Government is advocating to make the system more fair, transparent and effective. I was grateful that everyone saw him, because the Great Plan Options were approved here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u291	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the petitioners in this case to CGTP. With regard to this matter, it is very clear what is the challenge we have here. How can we reconcile the increase in average life expectancy, which is a source of satisfaction for all of us, and demographic breakdown? That is, how do I pay more pensions for more time with fewer assets? To deny the need for reforms in the social security system is to condemn that same system. Petitioners talk about pension theft. Not reforming social security is stealing the future from all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u294	That is why it makes sense to connect the average life expectancy to the retirement age, especially when we talk about early reforms. To say otherwise is demagogic and to ignore that there is a problem. The truth is that it was possible, from the beginning of 2015, that at 60 years of age, and with 40 years of discounts, to require early retirement. And what did the Socialist Party government do? At the beginning of this year, this system would end and the Government of the Socialist Party intended to maintain exactly the same system, that is, 60 years of age with 40 years of discounts, which makes as a rule what had been exceptionally fixed by the previous Government. So what you've been critical of before is good now?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u295	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u296	And it is also significant that the petitioners, together with the CFP, showed a great hope that this government would bring the resolution to this problem. They said they were willing to dialogue. Now, what we see is that the CFP, at the invitation of this petition, allocated the appreciation of a bill in which what it intends is that at 40 years with discounts, without any limitation, it will receive the whole reform. My question is this: has the CFP forgotten to support this government? And what is the PS's position on this proposal? It is because we heard the Socialist Party Member speaking and he was unable to tell us how he is going to vote on this PCP bill. There is also that central issue, which is to hear the PCP and the Left Block say what they will do if the PS chumbar the proposal. Are they going to do the same with regard to the updating of pensions, i.e. they're going to "put the rape in the bag" and content themselves with an increase of 0, 4 %? Is that it? [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] What they said was a robbery now isn't it? For us, things are very clear: what is at stake is the future of all of us and, therefore, in this matter, the concern of the CDS has always been to guarantee the future of social security. [[CDS-PP applause:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u297	For a second intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After several speeches have been made here, it is indeed visible that the main problem of social security is not demographic, it is economic. The main threat to social security is unemployment, precariousness, emigration, absence of contributing periods and contributory cycles. It is obvious that the PSD and the CDS, who over the past four years, besides having stolen pensions, have promoted unemployment, precariousness and emigration, do not want to talk about it, but the truth is this, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Today we are bringing here a proposal that wants those who have 40 years of discounts, who have a whole life of work behind their backs, to be able to retire without penalties. You think this is wrong, but we think it is to establish justice. What is the reason why you started a contribution career at 14, 15 or 16 years old not to be entitled to a reform without penalties, after 40 years of discounts? on our part, this is a compromise we have, it is a defense we make. We have done it in the past, we do it in the present and we do it - we will always do it, because it is fundamental justice, for the dignity of the lives of thousands of people in our country who started working very early, who had a whole life of work in very exhausting sectors and who you have humiliated and achieved in your dignity. That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Members, I conclude by saying that the commitment of the CFP, the face of the CFP, the word of the CFP is one: in the past as at present, we advocate the valorization of long-contributory careers, we defend the right to a reform with 40 years of discounts, regardless of age. It is for people's rights and for the development of the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u299	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, we turn to the next item on our agenda today, which is part of the joint assessment of petition No 549 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by António José Ladeira Soares Net and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to suspend the application of the new Regulation of the Law Box of Lawyers and Applicants ( CPAS) and draft resolution No 135 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the new Regulation of the Law Box and its subsequent revocation, re-resisting the previous scheme ( BE). Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the representatives of the 4383 petitioners and tell them that we are converging into an essential concern which is brought to us by this petition. I quote: "Advocacy and demand, in particular that which is exercised in individual practice and in small societies and is dedicated to the sponsorship of the economically more vulnerable social strata, through times of serious difficulties and this situation stems from the draconian austerity measures that have been applied by the political bodies and which have led to the destruction of much of the national productive apparatus, pushing for insolvency families and businesses and increasing the cases of poverty and social exclusion. However, forensic professionals who sponsor these social sectors most affected by the financial crisis cannot, themselves, be affected by the adverse situation of their sponsors and therefore struggle with serious difficulties of survival'. I have just mentioned the petition that is presented to us. This petition concerns a problem of the greatest importance for those who exercise counseling and solicitation. It is, in fact, that the system of the Lawyer and Applicants' Safety Box has as very complicated problems at present the fact that the ratio between taxpayers and pensioners has fallen in the home of 30 % or more than 30 % in recent years, with a marked ageing of the beneficiary world, estimated that around 2060 more than half of the taxpayers for this Safety Box will be over 60 years old. Furthermore, the value of current annual contributions will cover a very small share of pensions payable in 2040. For this reason, it is clear that the solvency and financial sustainability of the Advocates and Applicants' Safety Box, which at this time covers anything like 47,500 lawyers and 5100 applicants, constitutes an objective to which the Left Block is fully associated. But in this Safety Box, as in the country, it is necessary that the future guarantee of pensions should not be obtained through disproportionate penalties for lawyers and economically weaker applicants, especially for younger persons, but above all through effective compliance with the obligations of lawyers and applicants of higher economic power. Of course, for this reason, for the Left Block, the focus must be on the impact on the weaker lawyers rather than on the abstract application of the rules of the regulation, as if all lawyers or applicants were equal in their incomes and in their contribution obligations. They're not. For the Left Block, there are basically two problems which put us in this new regulation reservations about the issue we have just stated. First of all, the extension of the number of steps from 10 to 18 is accompanied by a forecast to increase the contribution rate from 17 % to 24 % by 2020, which will result in a very serious impact on young lawyers and lawyers and applicants on an individual basis. Secondly, compulsory payment from the second stage of the internship poses new problems, to the exact extent that the start of activity prior to this scheme benefited, for a year, almost automatically, from the exemption of contribution to social security. It is really an increase that can be called small, but that for lawyers at the beginning of career is a particularly serious increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u301	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u302	I conclude, Mr President, by realizing that we therefore advocate and recommend to the Government a very strict assessment of the impact of the application of this regulation and, therefore, we present to the Government a draft resolution recommending that, by listening to the representative bodies of the professionals on whom the regulation concerns, it undertake a rigorous assessment of the impact of its application, taking into account in particular what will happen on lawyers and applicants whose practice is exercised on a single or small basis and whose income is most affected by the contribution obligations arising from the new regulation. [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u303	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: My first word is obviously going to greet the honourable Members. Petitioners, whom I have already talked about and made clear the position of the CDS. As I said then, and I repeat, we realize the anxieties and afflictions that they give us notice of this petition, but we do not accept, at all, the idea of reprisal of the previous regulation and much less of the ongoing coercive charges. The reason is simple and is meridianly evident. what we are dealing with here and what is at stake, much more than the practical questions that put us, is, of course, the solvency and perpetuation of this social security system of lawyers and applicants and, above all, the sustainability of the system. I quote that what is at stake here is basically the sustainability of the system and going back to the past means just this: failure of the system. And the failure of the system has not only consequences for these professionals—and, even if so, it would obviously not be firing—but it has consequences for all Portuguese and, therefore, the CDS obviously does not compact. The CDS does not compact with the rupture of a system whose main and directly hits are precisely those who challenge this regulation. We know well—and I know that in this House no one is unaware of—that the difficulties that social security is facing are the same as those faced by this social security system, and that is why it would be urgent to combat them. It was exactly that, and only that, which guided the amendments we have made, and it is certain that, in addition to that, the higher contributions to be paid will still be lower than those of the other independent workers for the same possibilities. Therefore, it also does not take the argument that this system is not preferable to the other for these workers. The CDS refuses to see the ranks of those who little or nothing discounted for a social security system, not only because this obviously distorts the system but above all because the CDS defends a decent existence, which often often find these pensions difficult to reach and secure. But more than that, it is not fair, nor is it ethical, that some contribute, with more or less effort, to a system that will ensure them a reform, so that others, because they have difficulties, do not do so. Many of those who contribute will have so many or more difficulties and do not stop doing and do not want to leave the system. That's all this is at stake here. And so much so that the left ones, who have so much talked about this before, have evolved a great deal in this matter—and still well—a radical idea of suspending charges and resuscitating the previous regulation to now strongly suggest that the regime in force be evaluated. And they did so because they realized — in fact, it was said here — that what was at stake was just the sustainability of the system, of it and, on the limit, of others where they had to be integrated by virtue of its rupture. It is obvious that this issue is not just about questions of the economic crisis, as they have said sometimes, there are far deeper reasons than that, but this is not a debate to be held now. To conclude, Mr President, very quickly, I wanted to leave here only three ideas. Firstly, compulsory collection is not made by the tax machine, as the petitioners invoke; it is done in general terms of the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure. In addition, CPAS has now entered into payment agreements in benefits, avoiding, and well, the judicial route, what we recommend and should continue. It will now be up to the majority to see if it makes sense to take more measures such as those taken by the previous Government. In 2012, we realized that there was a debt regularization problem and an exceptional contribution payment process was made. It will now be up to this Government to see whether or not it makes sense to do the same to ensure the sustainability of the system. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u305	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Member of the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u307	My name is Vania Dias da Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u308	... here it wasn't about changing our mind and not wanting a break. No, the honourable Member, like me, who was the rapporteur of this petition, is a member of 1. the Commission is therefore perfectly aware of what the PS has always defended. Now, we will certainly not say that we need to study the problem so that nothing will happen and we will eventually defend that things remain as they are, as you have just done. The petitioners addressed the Assembly of the Republic, not only. They have done so because they have experienced many difficulties since, at the end of the last legislative term, the PSD/CDS Government has approved the new Regulation of the Law Box of Lawyers and Applicants, which has already been mentioned here. There is no doubt either of the reading of the new Regulation or of all the documentation collected at the hearing of the petitioners, that we are faced with profound changes in a contribution system, which took place in an unfavourable climate. There is no doubt, too, that a diploma aimed at ensuring the sustainability of this system created difficulties, especially for lawyers and applicants who exercise their activity in the individual name, for young trainees, for those who exercise their profession in small societies and who were no longer with a consolidated right to their contribution (there is therefore no problem of retroactivity here), but in the few years of it. Moreover, the diploma allowing the phased payment to the CPAS was revoked. It is good not to rely on mere practices, there is a need for legal certainty. The impact of the new Regulation was indeed uneven here and there in some cases disproportionate and expected affect — and all this has to deserve our attention. It is true that the petitioners require the suspension of the current Regulation. It happens that such a legal means, in our view, would not address the concerns of the petition. The suspension of the regulation would not imply the rebirth, which is like the one who says the re-establishment of any previous legal regime. The complexity of the matter cannot be silenced that much of this complexity comes from the austerity measures applied and from the financial crisis which, in reflexively, have affected forensic professionals, requires an integrated and dialogueal analysis — which, with this Minister of Justice, is at last possible — and, moreover, already in progress, in order to find a just and equitable solution in a holistic view. In addition to what has already been said, we follow the concerns highlighted in the draft resolution of the Left Block, i.e. the marked increase in the contribution effort of lawyers, the most serious regime for young people and those who practice their profession in small societies. Finally, it cannot fail to be mentioned that the new Regulation constitutes for a large number of young trainees in these professions the payment of an effective contribution, which did not exist before this diploma. This is particularly heavy, if I may say so, taking into account wages—where there are — and of all known — these young professionals. Because of the complexity of the topic, because of the need to ensure the sustainability of all contributing systems in accordance with the principles arising from the rule of law, the PS believes that the Government should accurately assess what has been highlighted here, in consultation with all the entities involved, so that justice and sustainability can be combined — justice too! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u309	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u310	Mr President, I would first of all like to greet the petitioners. With regard to the debate we are having in Parliament on both the petition and the draft resolution submitted by the Left Block, I was reminded of what is the formal concept of millennialism. It is a philosophical attitude, with mythical tones, which part of the assumption that there was a previous epoch of great happiness, which was then swallowed up or even perished due to a set of disastrous situations, but which will surely be imposed again and rest, and happiness will return again. There is no doubt that the interventions not only on this subject but on almost all the others that we have heard in recent months by the Socialist Party and the extreme-left take this millenniumist attitude intentionally. So, on this matter of the case of the case of the Advocates and Seekers, they come to tell this fable, and I don't even call it myth, saying that it was all right before the crisis arose — crisis, indeed, directly caused by the government action of their mate's coalition material — and that then, when the crisis occurred, everything went wrong and, in particular, what were the remedies of the previous government to solve the financial and economic problems of the crisis is that they brought the disaster to the case of the Advocates and Seekers. It's fake! Like all the fables, this one's fake, too. The financial situation of the Lawyer and Applicants' Safety Board has problems, and it has been a long time ago. The PSD Parliamentary Group will not compromise with any intention that, in any way, direct or indirect, may affect the sustainability of the Lawyer and Applicants' Safety Box, because this is the most direct and painful way to affect the situations of lawyers and applicants who, in any way, petitioners and also, I believe, the Left Block want to protect in the first hand, let us say so. Therefore, we welcome the turn or, better, the reflection that the Left Block has made, because the Left Block, in good rigour, presented two draft resolutions. One of them went in the same direction as the petition — I wanted to suspend, repeal the legislation in force and reprisal the previous one. But the Left Block retreated, and it did good. I welcome the Left Block to retreat—and not only in this matter, because it seems to be retreating in many, it is shrinking back on many of the principles that it has been begging when it was still in the opposition. We have recently seen a similar movement on the part of the Portuguese Communist Party in terms of social security and pension payments. The Left Block did this cop-flac—and it will not be the last, of course—and now presented a much more moderate draft resolution, apparently more serious, but which contradicts what is in the petition—as, in fact, was said here by Mrs Isabel Moreira—who had no legal viability. The PSD Parliamentary Group will accept any analysis and reflection to transmit sustainability to the Advocates and Applicants' Office. To demagogy and withdraw the few foundations of sustainability that this institution has, we will not agree, do not have with us for that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u311	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to welcome the petitioners here and say that we follow what is proposed in particular in this House, which is that we recommend a reflection on the sustainability and fairness of the regulations adopted for the case of lawyers and applicants. This does not mean adherence to what is initially proposed by the petitioners, because it also seems to us that the appropriate solution to this problem is not to point to the suspension of the existing regime, until that would necessarily imply the re-sinuation of the previous regime, nor does it seem to us that the re-sinuation of the previous regime would be resolved. The thought that it is necessary to do is not only about this regime that is now in force, but also about whether the regime previously in force was viable and sustainable. The Lawyers and Applicants' Safety Box has a configuration that approaches pension funds. We can say that, indeed, it is practically a pension fund, to the extent that it was possible for its subscribers to manage their contribution careers. In particular, a lawyer with more years of profession and higher income could manage his contributions, make higher contributions, which would guarantee him, when he retired, when he ceased his activity or even if he did not completely cease his activity but could retire, take a relatively high pension. However, this situation, with the different age configuration which today has the class of lawyers and with a greater number of younger and lower-income lawyers, is in fact likely to generate imbalances and may in practice call into question the sustainability of the Advocates and Applicants' Safety Box in practice. This reflection cannot of course cease to be made. Today, the Lawyer and Applicants' Safety Box has a level of contributions that is almost equivalent to the level of expenditure. This obviously does not call into question its sustainability, but it must motivate a reflection. We must therefore take into account the situation particularly of the younger taxpayers, who will tend to be the majority, as we all know, but we should not lose the notion of justice concerning other independent workers, other workers who are receiving green. What is stated in this Decree-Law is that the contribution effort gradually increases over the next four years until it reaches a level of contributions of 24 %. Now, 24 % is what any young person who is getting green is paying today. This must therefore be taken into account. There must be an appropriate, reflected, participated solution, but that is a just solution, which takes account of the level of effective income of people and does not create a situation of inequality among these young lawyers, lawyers and people who are in other professions, young or less young, but who also have a liberal profession, who are green receipts, are true or false, but who also have to make their discounts and who make them at a level of contribution that is high.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u313	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u314	I conclude immediately, Mr President. That is the reflection we have to make. We cannot isolate the level of contributions required by lawyers from the level of contributions that is required from all other professional classes. What we subscribe to is that this reflection should be done and that the Government can stimulate a reflection that leads to a just solution. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-22.u315	Mrs. With this intervention, we have reached the end of the last item on the agenda, the joint debate on petition No 549 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) and draft resolution No 135 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( BE ). The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the agenda of a thematic debate required by the CFP on job insecurity. At the end of the debate, there will also be regular votes. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 49 minutes.]]
