ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. As you know, there is a thematic debate on our agenda under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, required by the CFP, on work precariousness after which there will be statutory votes. You have the floor for an intervention at the opening of the debate, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Work insecurity is today one of the most striking features of the country's social situation. There is no sector of economic activity where this phenomenon does not exist and reaches a very significant part of its workers, from industry to services, through agriculture, there are multiple forms of work precariousness that have as a common element the insecurity of labor bonds, low wages and the limitation of fundamental rights. the continuous or discontinued periods of precarious linkage are almost always long and repeated periods of unemployment. Today, in our country, more than 1, 2 million workers with precarious links will exist: term contracts in violation of the law, false green receipts, work led by the provision of services, research grants or curricular and professional internships, temporary work without compliance with rules. in our country there are people who have survived for years in this carcel of precariousness, who respond to the permanent needs of companies and services, but who have less rights and less wages. Workers with precarious links work at the same place, perform the same hours, perform the same tasks, but on average receive less than 30 % of wages than one employee with effective contracts. The precariousness of employment is the precariousness of the family, it is the precariousness of life, but it is also the precariousness of training, qualifications and professional experience, it is the precariousness of the productive profile and productivity of work. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, precariousness has not fallen from heaven, successive changes to labour legislation that have generalized precariousness, degraded working conditions and liquidated labour and social rights have been decisive. The former PSD / CDS government, in the path of previous governments, was responsible for successive changes to labour law, always with the aim of generalizing precariousness, degradation of working conditions and attempts to liquidate labour and social rights. This is an example of the amendments to the Labour Code, the generalization of the illegal use of precariousness, the embarrassment and facilitation of dismissals and the worsening of the conditions of linkage between personal, family and professional life. Labour precariousness, illegal recruitment and violation of workers' rights result directly from political options based on degradation, deregulation and fragility of working conditions and relationships, the deresponsibility of companies by workers who guarantee their functioning and profits and the worsening of exploitation. Between the 4th. the quarter of 2011 and the 4. the quarter 2014 was destroyed more than 243,000 jobs. These figures clearly show the option taken by the previous Government: replacing workers with rights by workers without rights, exacerbating exploitation and ensuring the accumulation of profits by economic groups. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of the European Parliament, Mr Deputies : Appreciability at work is unacceptable, disrespects the right to work and to safety at work, is a factor of instability and social injustice which decisively compromises the development and production profile of the country. The alternative to unemployment is not precarious. The alternative to unemployment is employment with rights! Precautionary is not an inevitability and right employment is, at the same time, a condition and a factor of progress and social justice. It is necessary and urgent to promote employment stability by complying with and enforcing the right to work and to safety at work, as provided for in the Constitution, ensuring that a permanent job corresponds to an effective working link, as well as eliminating all forms of precariousness. The CFP has recently presented a package of legislative initiatives to combat precariousness which it wants to see discussed and approved. These proposals aim to transform the presumption of a contract of work into effective proof of the existence of a contract of work, to reduce the situations in which it is possible to use the contract at the end, to revoke special contracts of very short duration, to reduce the duration of the contract in the right term for up to 3 years, to prevent the use of active public employment measures, to respond to the permanent needs of public services, undertakings and other entities, to establish economic, tax and contribution penalties for employers who use forms of precarious contract, to adopt a national plan to combat job insecurity and to strengthen the means and powers of the Labour Conditions Authority. This contribution and this debate we are making here is a firm step in valuing work and workers. This is a fight against the democratic regime that the CFP does not give up. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u3	We will now enter the debate period. For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To reject the idea that the proliferation of so-called 'atypical forms of work' is a serious problem in labour relations is at least an illusion. Even recently, the International Labour Organisation ( ILO ), through a tripartite group ( governments, employers and trade unions ), recognized that these atypical forms of employment may constitute an opportunity for professional integration, incorporate serious risks of, and I quote, «promoting wage differences, degrading working conditions and career training and development opportunities, limiting health and safety at work, hindering access to social security and restricting freedom of association and negotiation ». It is therefore, indeed, of today, this debate marked by the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party. The segmentation of work in Portugal presents as the main problems, which are not unique, firstly, the excessive use of work in time. Today it can be safely stated that, for example, in the last three months, only about 20 % of all new employment contracts concluded were permanent contracts. I repeat, only 20 % of all contracts concluded in the last three months were permanent contracts. The same had occurred in the previous three months. The second problem, despite the opposite legislation, is that of the existence, approved in this House, of situations of false independent work. The third problem has to do with the risk of using employment policies, such as vocational training and employment-inclusion contracts, such as real job replacements, not to mention the most dramatic form of precariousness, which is informal work. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, before this framework, the Government assumes the fight against segmentation and precariousness as priority elements of its strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This strategy is about combating precariousness in the private and public business sector, but also about a greater criterion for the use of active employment measures. in this field, it will be deepened, in dialogue and in consultation with the social partners, a set of action lines that go through four fundamental dimensions. The first concerns, firstly, the promotion of stable and lasting labour relations, limiting excessive recourse to long-term contracts, which must cease to be the quasi-universal rule of contract, penalizing the large turnover of business frameworks, in particular by shaping the contribution regime applicable to non-term contracts, term contracts and other flexible forms of contract, in order to discourage the use of atypical employment relations from its inception and, secondly, the differentiation of companies with excessive undue turnover in their frameworks, which is now a reality of indisputable size and which can have a response, in particular, in relation to social security, but also with the limitation of employment contracts that are determined to the duly proven needs. The second dimension relates, on the one hand, to strengthening the effectiveness of labour standards by strengthening the monitoring of compliance with labour standards through increased inspection and labour performance, by strengthening, inter alia, monitoring compliance with standards, combating the misuse and illegal use of end-term contracts, false green receipts, temporary, underreported and undeclared work, and abuse and illegality in the use of active employment measures, such as traineeships and support for the recruitment to replace workers, and on the other hand also by focusing on improving the inspection and performance capacity in labour matters, strengthening the Labour Conditions Authority, thus increasing the ability to regulate the market by increasing the dissuasion of labour rules and also the verification of compliance with them. The third dimension relates to active employment policies, which should favour longer and more sustainable inclusions in the labour market and combat the abuse and illegality of the use of employment measures for the replacement of workers, strengthening mechanisms for the creation of net employment and the hiring of trainees. The Government is working on a rigorous assessment of the impact of active employment measures. As this work has not been completed, however, I can point out that, as well as measures such as those of the Employment Stimulus, only a few months ago only a small minority of workers have permanent contracts with the companies where they have carried out their active employment measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only a very small percentage of workers have permanent working relations with companies that have been supported for job creation. The fourth dimension relates to the evaluation of the unemployment protection regime for self-employed workers, detecting inefficiencies in their operationalization, in the light of the protection needs and the objectives set out for this new protection regime, by carrying out a risk assessment covered by this scheme, with a view to a greater balance between the duties and contribution rights of self-employed workers and effective social protection, which improves the perception of benefits, contributing to a greater linkage of these workers to the social security welfare system. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the size and nature of the segmentation of the labour market in our country is not only a problem of conjuncture, it is a threat not only to social cohesion but also to our collective capacity to increase the growth potential of our economy. This excessive segmentation was, and will continue to be, an objective factor that favors the emigration of qualified young people, with all the consequences that arise there. It is also at the root of the brutal fall of birth which has been accentuated in recent years. That is why this is a national challenge of first magnitude and, as such, it should mobilise all economic, social and political actors. That is why the Government will associate, from the outset, social dialogue with this effort to modernise labour relations. We are aware of the difficulties and demands that affect the competitiveness of various sectors of our economy, where, for example, seasonality has a huge impact. We must find the answers that can reconcile the growth of external competitiveness with the objective of decent work, which is not only possible, as is necessary. This is about to reverse a trend which has already decades of affirmation in our country, so we cannot expect this transformation to take place overnight, but even for this reason it is important to place this issue at a place of emphasis on the country's priorities. That is our commitment, that is a national requirement, this is a battle we have to win. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u5	Mr Minister, you have signed up to request clarifications of eight Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u6	If possible, four to four, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u7	That being the case, Mrs. Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u8	Mr President, Minister for Labour and Social Security, I begin by saying that the PSD is presented in this debate with evidence given and convincingly affirming that it defends ever more employment and better employment. Whenever, as a matter of specialty, in the debate of the State budget, the flag of precariousness was dwindled, the government never ran for anything to say and was blowing into the air, announcing a kind of multi-annual strategy to combat precariousness. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are disappointed that the government does not implement this strategy because it does not. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u9	The Government has no strategy, as we have now had the opportunity to listen to Mr Minister, to combat job insecurity. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u10	In fact, Mr Minister, please tell the country how this Socialist Party Government is going to create a strategy for stability and for the quality of employment and labour relations if this Government has its backs on job creation and active employment measures, as well as has the opportunity to mention its intervention. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u11	I ask you whether this government is looking back on workers and businesses. That's because it only improves jobs if there's a job. Let us see, for example, the employment-inclusion contracts, which you also mentioned. You have completely taken this step, and you are unable to recognize the happiness and joy of that woman who was in a state of unemployment and social isolation for over a year... [[BE's protests.]] ... and who, while receiving the unemployment allowance, decided to agree to integrate an employment-inclusion contract for a year into the IPSS at the foot of his house. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u12	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u13	Listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. You are unable to recognize the happiness and joy of this woman who, when entering this program, has improved her personal, social and professional skills,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u14	... since it was this same program that allowed him to go to an interview in that same IPSS, which opened another valence and needed to contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u15	It should have been a decent salary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u16	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this woman and thousands of women have been employed in the last four years. For example, let us also look at the case of the professional stages that you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u17	You have already finished your time, but, as is customary in these circumstances, the time you exceed will be discounted in the time allocated to your party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u18	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, VV. For example, they are unable to recognize those young people who found this first opportunity in the labour market and who only had the opportunity to acquire skills that the school had not previously provided to them. Therefore, Minister, I would like to say, frankly, that the Government of the Socialist Party presents itself in this debate as a sort of intellectual vanity, an empty, unpragmatic vanity and my hope, the hope of workers, businesses and their families is that, indeed, this scenario changes and that you present yourself in this debate, in this Chamber, with the desire to create more employment and, yes, also better employment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u19	Mr José Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister for Labour and Social Security, if there were any doubts about the last intervention, the precariousness, indeed, was not a coincidence, nor is it a fatality, it was a very concrete strategy to reduce labour costs, to increase exploitation at work, to take advantage of despair and lack of opportunity, to impose a jungle, that was the precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Precautionary, Minister, is a blackmail: « Don’t you want? There are others who want to! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Precautionary is a bite: « Isn’t it fair? The best thing is to be quiet! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Precautionary, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is violence: « Put on the skirt, because customers like to see your legs! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Precautionary, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a robbery: « Work we have, we do not have wages to pay you. Don't you accept an employment-insertion contract? Or an unremunerated internship? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is the precariousness with which we live in our country, it is fear as normality, it is an entire generation that does not know, which has never known, which is a contract of work, which is to have rights or social protection. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u21	Mr Minister, we have six months to make the national plan to combat precariousness and there is no time to lose. The Left Block will lead to this debate, and it brings here today a dozen concrete proposals: heavy hand against false green receipts, if the crime compensates it is necessary to punish the employers who resort to it in an exemplary way. Change the Labour Code to facilitate the presumption of the contract of employment, to limit the use of contracts over time, the abuse of temporary work and the use of outsourcing. To deepen the law against precariousness resulting from the citizen legislative initiative of precarious workers and which has already regulated 1800 false green receipts, extending this mechanism to false scholarships, false stages and false volunteering.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u22	So it was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u23	Concretize a new scheme of contributions for workers to the green receipt so that they will actually start to discount in accordance with what they receive at every moment, so that they will no longer be persecuted for absurd debts and to become protected in unemployment, disease and childcare. Make the stages a trampoline for employment and not a trap for precariousness, forcing the entities that resort to the stages to integrate at least one in each of the trainees...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u24	That's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u25	... and channelling the millions who spent on this type of measures for effective employment policies. Give the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), in particular by hiring more than 200 inspectors, so that we can comply with the International Labour Organisation ratio. Put the Act to monitor the State, the internships of the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional), the abuses of employment-insertion contracts, which the honourable Member has so commended and which are forms of slave work, forced work, without wages, without contract and without rights, and are a shame that we cannot accept. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u26	End these forms of forced labour, set an example in the State. The diagnosis that has been made and included in the State Budget on precariousness in Public Administration and that, on a proposal from the Left Block, will be extended to the State business sector is of the greatest importance. It needs to be a tool for starting to integrate already this year the precarious workers of the Public Administration and of the State business sector. Finally, to consolidate solidarity, based on the principle of the most favourable treatment, ensuring the continuity of collective agreements, stimulating collective bargaining, which is the only way to protect the most fragile part of the labour relationship. Mr. Minister, the clock is counting, the working groups will start gathering for the week, we don't have time to waste. If precariousness was a choice, and it was a choice, fight it is a matter of dignity, or we do it already and without truce or run the risk of Portugal becoming, in the very short term, a gigantic mafia labor. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u27	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u28	Mr President, Minister for Labour and Social Security, stability, both in life and in employment, is important for families and for all of us. But when you talk about employment it is important to make it clear that who creates jobs is not the government, it is companies and only with solid companies that we can have quality jobs. This requires investment and there is only one investment where there is trust. However much it costs to listen, the increased confidence and capacity of the country's economy was fundamental to job creation in Portugal. And I do not believe that the Government does not know the report that the European Commission made on 26 February 2016 and that on page 31 of Portugal says the following. « In Portugal, the labour market began giving signs of recovery in the first half of 2013. Unemployment reacted to the resumption of economic activity at a faster pace than would have been expected, taking into account its historical relationship with the product'. In addition, the report, which, in 2014 and 2015, « (...) recent increases in the employment rate have resulted in permanent contracts, suggesting that previous employment protection legislation reforms have contributed to reducing the propensity for temporary employment. In other words, the work reforms that have been made have reduced unemployment and increased employment. Nor does it fail to note that between 2006 and 2008 the increase in employment was due to temporary contracts at the cost of permanent posts. Now, in 2006 and 2008, who ruled was the PS, was the Minister,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u29	... who ruled in 2014 and 2015 was PSD and CDS. So what is found is that the job reform that you want to attack was the reform that allowed the economy to generate quality jobs, and, in the light of the Minister's information, since the PS once again ruled, unemployment tends to have less quality, less permanence. And it is not by decree that one can solve what only the economy can generate, i.e. quality employment, and in order to have quality jobs, we need quality companies and we need these same jobs to be sustainable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u30	To understand, by decree, to impose the solutions that the left here brings us, means to destroy confidence in the economy and, therefore, to destroy employment. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President. — Mrs Rita Rato has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u31	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, I would like to ask you two questions: one on the importance and role of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) and the other on the issues of the effectiveness of these employment measures. On the Working Conditions Authority, it should be recalled that the previous PSD/CDS Government tried to paralyze the work of ACT, first of all by expurging those which were essential competences of ACT, exempting employers from the fulfilment of obligations of communications to ACT, as serious as the schedule of work, such as occupational accident insurance or other information relating to the start of the business of that company. On the other hand, it tried to paralyze the activity of the ACT because it allowed the situation to reach a point where at the beginning of 2015 200 inspectors were missing in the Labour Conditions Authority, which effectively prevents the effectiveness of supervision but allows full impunity for companies that do not respect workers' rights and actually allow a "law of the jungle" situation in the workplaces. Mr Minister, today the CFP will present a proposal for the priority of the Working Conditions Authority to be inspected and punitive. We understand that the number of inspectors, the number of senior technicians and auxiliary technicians, who respond to the demands and work of the Act, are fundamental in order to ensure compliance with the law and in order to ensure respect for workers' rights. We also wanted to hear what Mr Minister has to say about this. With regard to the importance of the effectiveness of active employment measures, he said here today that the support for recruitment and other measures, such as employment-inclusion contracts, have not been accompanied by their effectiveness and we can even say that the previous Government aimed to replace workers with rights for workers without rights. To hear the PSD say here that someone is happy and happy to receive food and transport allowance, occupying a permanent job, working 8 hours a day, ensuring the functioning of a school or hospital, explains well what the PSD practiced in four years and what it wanted for the country: imposing in the twenty-first century the rights of workers of the eighteenth century and the nineteenth century. But, Mrs. Carla Barros, that time is coming! [[PCP applause.]] So we are here today, on 23 March 2016, discussing the fight against precariousness as a task and obligation of the democratic regime, and that is what it costs us. Members of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u32	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions. Mrs Carla Barros said that the government had no strategy to combat precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u34	You did not mention it in your speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u35	Honestly, I would like to know the strategy of the major opposition party in combating precariousness, but perhaps this answer goes by saying, to start discussing on a serious basis, if the honourable Members. Members acknowledge or not the statement I made in the gallery that in recent months 80 % of contracts concluded by companies in our country are precarious contracts and only 20 % are contracts without end. If you understand that this is a good result of the fight against precariousness, we are talking about it! Mrs Deputy, I did not diabolise any active policy measures on employment. I did not, even, demonize employment-inclusion contracts, but I could not, because it was a government that I was a part of that created them. Now, Mrs. Deputy was talking about the joy of the worker who has a work experience,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u36	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u37	... but, Madam Member, more than 80 % of people who have access to employment and integration contracts are condemned, after a year of experience, of vocational training, improvement, joy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u38	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u39	Have you met any, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! These people are doomed to be fired automatically—that's what's going on! — because they cannot continue in this job, since, in most cases, employment-inclusion contracts are being used by the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u40	Mr Minister, you know what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u41	But the honourable Member will also hardly have a speech on the fight against precariousness unless she is able to deny what I have stated here with clarity. It is that a measure such as, for example, Estimulo Employo produces, at the end of a few months, around 10 % of unfinished contracts, Mrs Deputy, despite the marketing, sometimes excessive and very questionable, that the previous government made of its policies. I have here an email that the employment services sent to a company that had received a trainee and whose internship time was ending. He recalled the employment service: « You know that, if you are interested in hiring that recipient, you may, where appropriate, use support under the Estimulo Employo measure ». In other words, after financing a professional internship, the company was recommended that the State should finance another extension of the presence in that position. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, the statement that it is the companies that create jobs is starting to be very controversial, since in the last two years thousands of euros have been put at the service of artificial job creation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr José Moura Soeiro, of course, the work to be done is urgent, but it is also a work to be done in depth. There is no easy answer to this problem. The scale of the difficulties we face is very large and must be combated with firm but also balanced attitudes, from the point of view of the different interests in the presence. Mr António Carlos Monteiro, without any employment, is all much more difficult, but it is good that employment is created by an economy capable of sustaining and it is also good that employment is created in conditions of dignity. Once again, Mr. Member, it is or is not true that only 20 % of contracts concluded...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u42	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u43	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u44	I've already answered that it's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u45	Yeah, the honourable Member replied that it is not true and will have to prove it,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... because I am using constant information in the Ministry of Labour which clearly shows this reality. We will have the opportunity to discuss further, but I say here clearly that only 20 % of contracts created in each month are endless contracts. I have to leave some time for the answer to the next questions, so I apologize to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't had a chance to answer. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[So, what about the applause?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u46	We now have another set of four requests for clarification, so Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u47	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, records the strategy you have announced here to combat job insecurity. It is a fight that is required, because, in fact, whether through term contracts, either through temporary employment contracts or through false green receipts, the fact is that, from a few years to a few years ago, precarious work took account of the reality of work in our country. In fact, the Minister has set an example for the last few months, which is clear on this matter. Portugal is at the summit places at the level of precarious work and it is a reality that has come to gain weight and to take on increasing proportions. We well know that this situation has gained a new dimension with the policies, measures and options of the PSD/CDS government, which in fact did not hide its intention to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. We are talking about policies that have sought to generalize precariousness, so there is an attempt to make the rule of labour relations rule, and that is why we need a serious fight against the serious problem that precariousness represents in our country, until the rise in precariousness increases unemployment, which means that we are also fighting unemployment. On the other hand, we find that precarious workers have lower wages than others, because, in fact, precarious work is always a factor of discrimination and condemns the worker to complete deprotection. In other words, precariousness, which mainly affects women and young people, is socially unfair and degrading and affects the country itself, in its productivity and in its development. Even so, recourse to precarious work has been representing a recurrent, usual and even almost institutionalized practice as a way of disresponsibility of the employer and stressing the precariousness of those who are forced to work without rights. And we're not just talking about less skilled workers, because precariousness has entered the big lawyers' societies, it has settled in many companies also at the level of higher education, and even within the state itself, in several sectors, such as education and health, where professionals, such as nurses, but not only, face an absolutely unfortunate life, with precarious links, without rights and with far-reaching remuneration far from what is legally foreseen. Mr Minister, I have two questions to ask you, one of which has to do with the area of health, because the previous government has resorted very often, I would say even with an abusive frequency, to temporary workers, especially in the field of health. I would like you to tell us whether this reality is to maintain or whether there is any intention of this Government to combat this practice of resorting to temporary work enterprises, especially in the field of health. The second question I would like to ask you, Minister, has to do with the Working Conditions Authority, which has already been mentioned here, although it has not received an answer. The Working Conditions Authority can play a central role in combating work insecurity, but as we know, the previous Government, the PSD Government / CDS, has made the Working Conditions Authority virtually inoperative due to a lack of staff. What I would like you to say to us, Minister, is that the Government has views on the future of the Working Conditions Authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u48	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u49	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, in fact the debate brought today to this plenary is extremely important, not only because it has to be done in a serious and structured manner but because it allows us to understand what forms exist to end the precariousness. And, as has already been said, when we speak in precarious terms we are not talking about something abstract, we talk about the life of thousands of young people who lose their expectations in the future, such as careers and work rights, because they are eternal in the stages; we talk about the life of thousands of young people, and not only about the abuses of temporary workers who play with their lives and perpetuate instability in their lives; we talk about low wages, even to the minimum required by law, for the large mass of workers in Portugal; we talk about the consecutive withdrawal of rights either by the instability of working relationships, or by the macadada that is being given to collective bargaining. That is, when we debate precariousness and ways to fight it, we must remember that we debate people's lives at their workplace, their relationships at the workplace and their organization of life. in this context, I would like to ask some questions, particularly on the role of temporary workers. These companies today represent an element in the labor relationship which is foreign to the work relationship, which exists only to serve as an intermediary between a company that asks for a service and a worker that provides that service, but this role as an intermediary serves only one purpose: creating precarious labour relations, because they are based on very low wages, the absence of a direct relationship employer/worker, in non-compliance with the law on fundamental rights in some sectors that were previously covered and protected by collective bargaining. Created this labor perversion, they earn some and those who work always lose. Temporary workers earn millions every year, at the expense of the wage that should be paid to those who work, and the use of these enterprises is increasingly widespread, either in private or in the public, either for temporary work or for permanent work, so it must be worked urgently. We therefore believe that the fight against precariousness has, in fact, many fronts and none of them must be forgotten at the expense of another. That is why we put this issue in this debate. Until the abuse of these companies is over, we will still have a long way to go until we can say that we are an advanced society that does not exploit its workers for the accumulation of profits of some. I ask the Minister, therefore, what is the Government's position with regard to limiting the use of temporary work enterprises, in particular by the State's business sector - it would be extremely important - and also what methods to prohibit the use of such enterprises to supply permanent work needs, as is happening today and constitutes abuse. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u50	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u51	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, one of the aspects of precariousness is visible in the unacceptable use of temporary work and green receipts, false green receipts, an abusive remedy, especially since these workers respond to permanent needs. They are forms of labour exploitation that in common have the insecurity and instability that perpetuate and the continuing impossibility of these workers to plan and build their personal and family life with dignity. It is the reality of hundreds of thousands of workers who are marked by successive contracts — 6 months, 3 months, 1 month, 15 days a week — in an unacceptable situation of exploitation and uncertainty. They never know if their contract is renewed, they never know when it is renewed, they never know what the last, and usually low, wage they will bring home. They are long-term workers, they are temporary workers, but they do not respond to temporary needs, they respond to permanent needs. For example, there are those who, working in a multinational food industry, are hired by a temporary working company, and not by the company where they work, seeing their contracts renewed to the limit and then being sent home 'for a while' and again being hired by the same temporary working company, for the same job, performing exactly the same functions as it previously did. This is a reality that extends to various sectors, such as energy or telecommunications, which are used by these intermediaries who are genuine operating factories and who gain at the expense of this unacceptable triangular working relationship, from which the most fragile side, that is, the worker, is always damaged. It is also important to reflect on the reality of many hundreds of thousands of workers in Portugal who are marked by false green receipts. They are workers who have jobs, fixed hours, heads and well-defined functions and who always receive the same entity. They are actually workers on behalf of others but they continue, shamefully, as workers with green receipts, assuming responsibility, which is not theirs, to contribute to social security and subject themselves to a present and a future without stability and without social protection. This is a situation that, not rarely, if it drags years into line, as it is visible in the media sector, in the call centres, in the contact centres or in the large distribution, just to cite a few examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u53	The daily routine of these temporary workers and false green receipts is of uncertainty and fear. It is a daily of deferred lives, of young people who postpone their emancipation, of women and men who adapt their personal and family life due to the instability of working life. This, yes, is a reality that we must fight and that we must put an end to. Mr Minister, we note the concerns expressed in your speech. It is now necessary to translate these concerns into concrete measures that combat this unacceptable reality of proliferation of precariousness. And this is a challenge that it is important to respond quickly to the urgency of this situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u54	To conclude this phase of requests for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u55	Mr President, Minister, it is not possible to take a serious fight against precariousness when public administrations become a working rights offshore. I am not going to tell you about the false green receipts that exist in the Public Administration, I am not even going to tell you about the term contracts and I am not going to talk about the Professional Internship Program in the Public Administration, the PEPAC stages, to be paid. I would like to speak to you in particular of a mechanism protected by your Ministry, which are employment-inclusion contracts, and of their misuse, and even illegal use, by the Social Security Institute which you also protect. I would like to give you two examples that are spaced over time, one is 2014 and the other is 2016, to see how these situations are perpetuated at the Social Security Institute. These are two less optimistic examples than those presented here by the PSD. Eight unemployed with employment-inclusion contract, in the Lisbon District Social Security Centre, in the contact center, say: "Besides we have signed a 12-month contract, without any right to the holiday period, and to work 35 hours a week, now require us to work 40 hours. We are not helping and supporting the staff of the institution but, rather, taking the place of those who have either been fired or moved on to the retirement situation. This social work is carried out under pressure from the leaders themselves who have little or no training for us, being completely demotivated, feeling marginalized, deceived and unable to claim anything, since there is always a threat of loss of the right to unemployment benefit". I would now like to give you a more recent example. at the Social Security Institute, delegation of Portalegre, says one of the workers with employment-inclusion contracts: « after signing the contract I was placed in a office with employed workers, subordinated to a section chief who advised me to scrupulously fulfill the 8 hours a day, 40 hours a week, under the penalty of discounting me days. I have been given specific tasks for the function in question and also the possibility of going out in external service, for services attached to the Institute of Portalegre and which are 35 km from headquarters. The travel would be made by car of the Institute, but no meals would be paid or any other kind of aid». What I would like to ask you, Minister, is that, in these cases, and in so many others of the Social Security Institute, in the various district centres, the status of employment-inclusion contracts itself is being fulfilled, which says that it is not possible for these contracts to be used to fill jobs. How many of these employment-inclusion contracts in the Public Administration and, in particular, in social security have they become either a contract or a job or even an insertion? I ask you whether you will recognise that there is a need to replace this brutal form of labour abuse and exploitation by contracts with rights, because this represents the need for jobs in the Public Administration. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u56	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer a number of questions. First, the Working Conditions Authority needs to be strengthened. For several years, no inspector has been recruited — on the contrary, dozens of inspectors have left — but the government has already launched a first tender procedure for the selection of 83 new inspectors, with the exception of error, to give a first answer to this problem, which also has to do with the ability to integrate into the Authority of these inspectors. This is a different path from what was followed over several years of effective devaluation of the work of the Authority for the Conditions of Work. With regard to temporary work enterprises, I can say that, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is the aim of the Government, as far as public procurement is concerned, that all external procurement instruments are progressively reduced so that the State responds to its needs by means of stable procurement. Mrs Joana Mortágua, in order to finish, in fact, I am aware of the existence of social security itself — and it will not be the place where there is more — the recourse, in my view, to Employment and Integration Contracts. This has to do with the serious difficulties of technical and professional capacity due to a reduction of workers who, at the Social Security Institute, have been of the order of 3000 workers in the last four years... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u58	Mr. Minister, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u59	I will finish, Mr. President. But, Madam Member, I can tell you that the first sign that has been given, and that is of great relevance, was when the government decided to reposition all the workers who had left there through the so-called requalification process. So the government was already giving a sign of the difference it wants to make. This is because, as I was told, in the same building where the conditions of requalification were being discussed, on another floor, people with employment-inclusion contracts were being hired. This is a practice that will indeed end.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u60	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : When Mr Minister spoke in the 80% / 20% ratio on temporary/permanent contracts, I am not the one who denies Mr Minister's numbers but the European Commission and the National Institute of Statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u62	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u63	It must be another country's statistical institute!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u64	Does the Minister deny the existence of this report? Does it deny what is written in this report, i.e. that between 2006 and 2008 in their time increased the term contracts and that between 2014 and 2015 increased the standing contracts? The Minister denies that in the INE numbers there has been a ratio of 1 to 3 and that we end the 3. the quarter of 2015 with a ratio 1 to 2, i.e. for each temporary contract, were there two permanents being created?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u65	It must be the INE of another country!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u66	What the Minister has been doing is to torture the numbers to suit the reality of his wishes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u67	What we have had was a reform of labour law that you said would create more unemployment and more precariousness, but the European Commission and INE found it to be exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u68	Ah! It's the joke of the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u69	As you want to attack the work reform that has been done, the pretext is to torture the numbers to reach the conclusions that you want. Are we talking about the numbers that were obtained internally through registrations in the Labour Guarantee Fund? Are we talking about telling the same worker several times to reach your percentage? If what you are counting are the inscriptions, it is obvious that the percentage will increase. Therefore, what this report shows is that in the time of the previous government there was an increase in quality employment, after a particularly difficult situation, and the report also notes that in your time between 2006 and 2008 the employment which has increased was exactly that temporary employment. Mr Minister, trying to use the same recipes to make the same mistakes, leads, of course, to the same result as the increase in precariousness. So, who is against precariousness, by the way, we are and who is in favour of more precariousness are the gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u70	Mr Pedro Roque has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP proposes to us today another thematic debate on job insecurity. However, this is not a note. In fact, unlike previous occasions, when the CFP was a protest party, today it is one of the stages of current governance. Whether or not it is comfortable in this new role, the fact is that this is no longer the Robin dos forestes' PCP and the brave anti-great capital of one year, which we have all been used to in the last 40 years. These heroic and romantic times already go there and the PCP now emerges as one of the pillars of the regime and a new time when the front of the left leads the motto of this ship called Portugal. This new role of the CFP will require a new sense of responsibility and assumption of the status quo social de Portugal. Consequently, the CFP's position on job insecurity can also be a self-criticist on the situation in this area. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD, the governing party of the Government in the previous legislature, naturally recognizes that Portugal has, and continues to have, problems of precarious work and that they do not resolve from one moment to the other. However, we know that we are not isolated and that the question of job insecurity is unfortunately a global problem, as well as the ILO report on the situation of world employment, entitled The Change of Working Nature, published in May 2015. This study found that only one in four jobs created worldwide were stable and full-time. In the face of such an adverse situation, however, the Portuguese situation is comparatively more favourable. We affirm that because we know that the road ahead and the reforms carried out in the field of work were the most appropriate in view of the circumstances. Until the end of the legislature, and from the first quarter of 2013, unemployment continued to decline.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u73	Regarding the precariousness of work, between January 2013 and March 2015 — and these are numbers of the National Institute of Statistics, which is to be provided to them ( we think that eventually the government should have changed the supplier of statistics ) — the number of employees with unfinished contracts increased to more than 181,000, while the numbers of the term contracts were only increased to 63 900. This is for each job created with a term contract, about 2, 8 jobs were created based on permanent working relationships, supported by contracts without end. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u74	Moreover, knowing that young people are most affected by the problem of precariousness, I beat them as a government, the creation of the young guarantee at European level, so that they could be given employment, vocational training or further education. On the other hand, we fought for false green receipts and helped to enable a legislative initiative of citizens, which resulted in Law No. 63 / 2013, which facilitates the recognition of the existence of a labour relationship in situations of misuse of the green receipt. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP should know that there is a very close relationship between the political, financial and economic credibility of the countries, the attraction of investment, the growth of GDP and the consequent creation of jobs in quantity and quality. It would be truly important for Portugal today that the economy could flow healthyly so as to reap benefits as it does in a real social market economy. That is the sustainable way of reducing precariousness. However, the news that we are having for these days in economic and financial matters is not a way to reassure us. The recently approved budget raises disturbing doubts from various national and international institutions, which alert the viability of its implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u76	Again, in a kind of cyclical fado, we have the country suspended by the decisions of rating agencies, the goodwill of the European Central Bank and the European Union. So let's be clear. The 2016 budget year is at risk in half a dozen months to destroy four years of Portuguese sacrifice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u77	The promised removal of austerity takes place - a pseudo rigor, supported by an increase in indirect taxes, enemies of the economy and which socially do not distinguish the most needy from the most favored and which is content with the radical left, while, cautiously, extraordinary measures are reserved - read more austerity, not to anger the Commission, the Ecofin or the Eurogroup. Up to enrollment in employment centres, one of the ways of measuring unemployment, which has continued to decline since 2013, has been increasing in early 2016. Above all, the PCP, the national champion of the labor faith, says nothing. It became a convivent, it became aboriginal within the'management' and in the enthusiasm of its support for the current government solution. [[PSD applause.]] But the PSD, on behalf of the national interest, and above all of the most disadvantaged, that is, those who do not have work and those who know labour instability, sincerely hopes that Portugal, again by the hand of a socialist government, will not be faced again with the same situation as it did in May 2011. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u78	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u79	Mr President, Mr Pedro Roque, listening to your intervention on behalf of the PSD, we are led to conclude that the PSD has no proposal for a solution to the problem of job insecurity other than the maintenance of the policy that has led us to the situation in which we are and which must be urgently changed. Mr Deputy's intervention was a justification for the precariousness of work in the light of international, global economic issues of the European Union, then making all the hopes of bad luck with regard to the development of the Portuguese economy and the budgetary implementation to which the PSD has already been used and which reveals, in fact, that the PSD has nothing more to offer us than the bad solutions, the worst evidence given by its governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u81	Does the overall framework here justify the attitude that the Portuguese State has had in recent years to replace jobs that should be created to ensure public services by situations, by programmes where people are badly paid and are almost obliged to work in precarious and almost free ways? Do you think that there is reason for such programmes? Do you think it is worthwhile for the State to resort to such programmes that subject people to a situation of perfect indignity and that, after these programmes are carried out, these people go out and are replaced by others? Does the honourable Member think that there is something that can justify this kind of attitude on the part of the Portuguese State, that way of treating people who justly aspire to have a job to organize their lives and be able to aspire to dignified living conditions, which are fundamental to respect for human dignity? He thinks that this is a desirable situation, because what we have heard from him is that the PSD does not want anything else and does not propose anything but the continuation of the worst situation. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u82	To reply, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u83	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, first of all I would like to thank him for the questions he has raised and I would obviously reiterate what he said on the rostrum. This is, and using a popular language, to make omelets we have to break eggs. It means that in order to create more and better jobs, it is necessary to have an economic situation that promotes confidence, investment, the growth of the product and thereby creates jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u85	Jobs are not created by decree. Jobs are created by the economy and by the confidence of investors and entrepreneurs, and this is the sine qua condition for more and better employment. If it is by decree, we risk revoking a set of measures and thereby, in the medium term, compromising employment and increasing the unemployment rate. In fact, let me tell you, Mr Commissioner, and also in response to the questions you are asking, that the active employment policies, many of which, as the Minister here has said, are still of the time of the former Government of the Socialist Party, are the social state in action.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u87	They are the social state, at a time when unemployment is high, spending money from the State budget, spending European funds to promote employment and withdraw from the unemployment situation a number of people who would otherwise hardly be able to get jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u88	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u89	It is to put them with a job, to feel socially useful, to have some income and thus contribute to their livelihood and that of their families and even to the country's own economy. Mr President, let me tell you the following: these measures, which were set up by the former Socialist Government, with the PSD/CDS coalition government have and have even seen the support of the social partners who, for example during the first half of 2016, were called on to reassess the measures and improve their scope so that they become more effective. And much of the success of the fight against unemployment has gone precisely through these active employment policies which, as I said, are the social state in action.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u90	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. The social state is not only public education and the National Health Service, it is also these active employment measures, the fight against unemployment and the precarious forms of employment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u92	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: One of the universes most seriously affected by precariousness is that of the national scientific and technological system, particularly on the so-called scientific research fellowships. This is mainly a wide range of young people, but not only highly qualified young people, who are subject to unfair precariousness and who not only harm their scientific production capacity, such as the stability of the institutions themselves where they work. The precarious situation to which scientific research scholarships are subject is dually penalizing, not only because they personally penalize them, because they degrade their rights, their quality of life, and does not allow these researchers to know whether they will still have a project to work on tomorrow. It does not give them the stability necessary to develop your project with a view to the future and therefore does not give them the ability to develop your own life with a view to the future, as, in fact, it is characteristic of precariousness in all sectors of activity. in this case, all this is aggravated by the fact that it also produces instability in institutions, most public, higher education institutions, research and development units and other entities and institutions in the field of science, technology and innovation in Portugal, which do not know very well what body of researchers can count on from year to year, from project to project. The idea promoted by successive governments, PS and PSD / CDS, that precariousness in the world of science and technology is necessary so that workers produced could not be more wrong. in fact, both institutions and workers have only to lose with precariousness. It is necessary and there is an urgent need for solutions. The PCP, as it is known, proposes for these scientific research fellows the end of this temporary pocket condition and the integration into a career that, for those who are obtaining the degree of doctorate, is a career of initiation to scientific research. Therefore, it is known the proposal of the PCP, which creates precisely the career of scientific researcher in training, and it is necessary to incorporate all those who are already doctored in the career of scientific research, which has not opened for decades in our country, which is closed, as, indeed, many other careers, despite the needs being grueling. Portugal continues — a number of governments have done so — to welcome and praise the numbers of researchers for every thousand inhabitants, because it uses the pockets to account for them in these numbers, but to recognize them the rights of investigators no longer count as researchers, being treated as precarious and even disposable labor. while leaving these issues to the government, we also say that the CFP will continue to fight for the urgency of this issue, for the justice and dignity that these workers also deserve. Even because, as we know, not staying here, they end up going abroad and going to other countries to deliver what they want to give their country legitimately. The CFP believes that there are solutions for these workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau understood that this intervention would have had as much time as it had, taking into account the party's overall time, as it has been practical. Mr Carla Tavares of the Socialist Party now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The guarantee of safety in employment is a constitutional right for all workers and it took many years for Portuguese society to be aware of that right. Only job stability enables families to plan their future, set up their residence, decide to buy their home, or decide to have more children. The previous government not only encouraged precarious work, as we have already heard today, it still applauded it. Yes, because people had to get used to the fact that a job may not be for the whole life. in recent years, the profile of the precarious worker has ceased to be exclusive of young people, women and less qualified workers, reaching, most of the time, also licensed workers. Precarious work has become the rule rather than the exception. It has become the current practice rather than the punctual case. No, this is not the way we want to continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, this is not the way Portugal leads to development. No, this is not the way for Portugal to overcome the crisis, control the deficit and balance the public accounts. No, it's not. We have been confronted with an economic and social context that allows, validates and even applauds the new precarious forms of employment, as opposed to the traditional concept of employment contract, such as part-time contracts, temporary contracts and the use of services. There are companies to hire people through temporary work companies to escape the rules of collective employment contracts, thus allowing, for example, to pay much lower wages, a reality that has mainly affected women. And women are also more exposed to precarious work when they enter the labour market, usually receive lower wages and are also more exposed to return to unemployment. This has been the work scene of our country: the culture of low wages, the insecurity in continuity at work and the lack of social rights, the absence of discounts for reform, the absence of wages in case of illness, irregular schedules, the excess hours of work and the absence of unemployment and holiday allowance. These are situations that increasingly correspond to the new rules of recruitment and which are deeply negative for the construction of a society that wants to be more evolved and more just and for the construction of a way of life to which we all have a right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese have the right to a stable job, to safety at work, to be able to plan their future, to decide where they want to live, to have a home and to have the children they want. This is the country we want to have and happily have the reality we have today is quite different from what we had a year ago. The scenario has changed. Today we have a government that knows and does not hide the reality of precarious work and we have a majority that supports it that is willing to find solutions to combat it, and that will make all the difference. Responding to the PSD, it is more worth a « management » that presents solutions than a « gateway » that does not take us anywhere. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u96	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party (“The Greens”) spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has today more than one million workers with precarious links. It is a truly dramatic number and for which the previous government has contributed decisively, at a rate greater than 30 000 cases per quarter. Now, at a time when it is necessary to combat precariousness, what did the PSD/CDS government do? It made the ACT virtually inoperative, due to the lack of staff, when this body is decisive in combating precariousness; it promoted employment stimulus policies that were true incentives to precariousness; it promoted job insecurity; it promoted work without rights and promoted low-wage policy. He replaced in several public services workers with rights by workers without rights, made the long-term unemployed internship programme, putting the State to finance the precariousness so that companies could benefit from virtually free labour. That is to say, it has not only promoted precariousness as the State has put in place to finance the precarious practice of many companies. These are the evidence given in the fight against job insecurity that the PSD referred to at the beginning of this debate. That is why when the PSD today tells us about its commitment to more and better employment, we find that this can only be said on a mental reserve, it is certainly not to take it seriously. Therefore, also in this matter did the Portuguese, who put the PSD and the CDS in opposition, because now also the PSD and the CDS say they are concerned about the precariousness of work. But they needed to get out of power to say it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no arguments against this: the right has left us a despondent framework. One in 14 families does not eat decently; one quarter of the Portuguese is at the threshold of poverty; around 26% of the unemployed have no protection; 90% of the new contracts are overdue; 80% of the new entry into unemployment situations are associated with the end of term employment contracts; almost 50% of the unemployed are long-term; and more than 10% of the workers are poor. This is the prevailing happiness in Portugal. Precautionaryness is associated with forms of recruitment in young people, but also with unemployment and ineffective social and labour protection. It is estimated that the sum of the number of workers covered by collective conventions in the last four years was only 1,290 169 workers, this sum being less than the total number of workers in each of the years individually considered from 2006 to 2010. In other words, precariousness is also associated with angry working conditions, which also affects older workers. The increase in precarious employment stimulates unemployment and this fosters despair, depression and suicide. It has contagion effects on the family and intolerable reflections in a society that wants to be worthy. There are perverse relationships, such as the relationship of working precariousness with the violation of labour law and even the relationship between a poor economic and financial situation and the level of civic and political participation with serious consequences for democracy. Three known and ‘dangerous’ organisations of the « radical left », the OECD, ILO and Caritas Europe, with different approaches, reach virtually the same conclusions : Portugal has one of the most unequal distributions of income in Europe, is a country where poverty and precariousness reach higher levels and the level of satisfaction of Portuguese is one of the lowest in OECD countries together with Estonia, Hungary, Turkey and Greece. The drama is that the right has destroyed jobs at hand, but the restoration of employment levels is a much slower process, and combating precariousness requires courage and requires the implementation of appropriate political measures. That's what the PS does and that's what the PS did in this State Budget: it promoted employment and combated precariousness. I stress some essential aspects: reducing litigation and promoting reconciliation of work; penalizing companies with high turnover of workers; organising working time; dynamising collective bargaining and recovering — above all, recovering — the importance of social dialogue, lost in the past four years. I am not easily shocked, but scandalized by the state in which the previous government left Portugal. I scandalise myself with the hypocrisy and cynicism of those who, being responsible for the social disqualification in which they left this country, now make vows of love to the unemployed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am shocked, above all, by hunger, poverty and precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u100	I couldn't agree more!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u101	A government does not have to feel sorry for people or be charitable. A government must respect people and protect them. That is what the Government of the Socialist Party does. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u102	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS, wrote to request clarification from the honourable Member who has just spoken. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, although she spoke to us here about respecting and protecting people. With regard to precariousness, that is exactly what this is about. The fight against the precariousness that the CFP has brought, and well, for this debate is essential to the development of sustainable and vital public employment policies for the construction of a strong, solid and competitive economy, but it is not a private combat on the left, Mrs. But it cannot be a blind debate, Mrs Deputies. It cannot be a debate with solutions which, so many times, exacerbate the precariousness rather than stop, as is appropriate. It has to point to flexible solutions, involving both sides of the problem, obviously supported by social consultation. That said, Mrs Deputies, I wanted to leave you and the government that supports a perplexity and a question. As the honourable Member has just said, the government has an obligation to protect people. And in this debate, which is nearing the end, we have not yet heard of the precariousness and the fight against precariousness in the employment of people with disabilities. These people are vulnerable and need protection, and in this debate no one, strictly no one, has talked about it. Therefore, we are very anxious that the self-proclaimed palladins of the most vulnerable once again have left these people forgotten in the drawer. The former government has made a huge commitment in this area, and the results are visible. I am talking about, for example, the commitment to higher and better training for people with disabilities, the continuation of the policy of adapting jobs and architectural barriers, for example in support of placement and essential post-location follow-up, or also in the stage-inclusion for people with disabilities, so fond of those who had this opportunity and who were systematically despised by you. This, of course, not to mention the project-pilot Qualify for Inclusion, a success that we hope will not destroy too, destroying with it the flexibility and customization consecrated or the transition platform that this project allows and encourages. Madam Member, my question is whether, on the one hand, the PS Government recognises the progress we have made in this area and, on the other hand, and more importantly, that other measures are designed to combat precariousness for people with disabilities, promoting their inclusion and, more than that, safeguarding their dignity and the right to work in terms of equality. And now, by the time when, in December, Mr Minister, when he came here to talk about precariousness, he announced that they would combat precariousness in the case of people with disabilities. But we're at the end of March and so far nothing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u104	In reply, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u105	Mr President, Member of the CDS, I advise you to read the measures that have been adopted in this State budget on the issue. What the honourable Member has done was an intervention, and for this it brought the very detailed intervention on the issues I wanted to put here. What is unfortunate is that nothing you said was done by your government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u106	Mrs Ana Mesquita spoke on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is often intended to make us believe that precariousness is an inherent condition for the workers of culture, painting an image of these professionals as bohemians, living romanticly in broken waters, needing little more than poetry and music to feed the belly. Obviously this is not the case, and it cannot be considered acceptable that the phenomenon of precariousness characterizes all the work in culture, confusing the true independent workers with the false green receipts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u108	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u109	The truth is that the scourge of precariousness excites the workers of their present culture, their right to work, their right to become a family, their right to stability, and they are robbed of a worthy future. How many cases we know of miserable reforms of those who worked and dedicated their lives to culture! And we're not just talking about actors and actresses, more media cases; we're talking about technicians, plastic artists, archaeology workers and many others. in recent weeks, multiple cases of false green receipts have been reported in various structures and showrooms, such as the CCB, the National Theatre of São João, the National Theatre of São Carlos, the Teatro Camões and Serralves. In cases where, in the supply of work, they define, for example, the function to be performed with a detailed description, the place of work and the remuneration and even the burden. Despite all this, workers are in service provision. This reality is not acceptable and must end. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u110	With constraints in hiring, public services are pushed into outsourcing schemes, where service providers are based on precariousness. As for the private, the precarious links are a dominant note of the performing arts to heritage. Flemish cases such as those of archaeologists, for example, who are qualified workers, to whom a high degree of autonomy is required, but at the same time, so many times are subject to fixed hours and places of work, providing jobs, years on the line, for the same companies, and yet, subject to green receipt work, are paradigmatic. How many and how many, thanks to this, have had to leave the profession and emigrate, leaving the poorest and most empty country? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that's enough! It is time to stop the precariousness, stop the precarious links, in culture and in all sectors. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u111	Mr Ivan Gonçalves, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The theme of this debate is indeed a structural issue for all workers in our country. however, it takes particular importance for a whole generation of young people, who have increased difficulties in finding stable working conditions and who are more affected by the real scourge of work precariousness, either through term contracts or false green receipts, either through situations framed in temporary work, or through the genuine exploitation to which many companies subject young workers, forcing them to work excessive hours, far beyond what the law allows, and to have to choose between having a personal life or a career. The situation is in many cases dramatic and it is safe to say that newly licensed young people today find, at the entry into the labour market, one of the worst scenarios in recent decades. Of course, and as many young people know, through the use and abuse of successive professional stages. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u113	Professional internships that are, in thesis, a good measure to allow easy access to the labour market and to a first job. The problem is that, in practice, in many cases, when the period of vocational training comes to an end, the young person who occupies this position will be replaced by another young person with the same employment relationship, who will do exactly the same function, which will allow that company to have a job successively occupied by trainees, subsidized by the State, that is, low-cost workers. These situations, together with those in which, for example, an internship gives rise to a term contract, also subsidized by the State, are elaborate ways of taking a good measure and transforming it into a pernicious measure. However, unless the stages actually lead to a stable job, these mechanisms need to be effectively monitored so that the State is not consistent with the increased practices leading to increasing precariousness. But what the right can't do is come for this debate to realize that nothing has to do with the worsening of these same situations. And if that's true, sirs. Members, who are the companies that create jobs, it is also true that in recent years much of these jobs have been created and subsidized with State money. [[P.S.'s applause.]] While they ruled, PSD and CDS were unable to answer any of these questions. on the contrary, what we saw happen over the last few years was a worsening of precarious work situations in our country. Even today, however, the right will continue to defend the flexibility of the labour market or, as one Member mentioned earlier, flexible labour market solutions. But what this flexibility often means, in the lives of workers, is only more precarious, more difficult situations that make it difficult for young Portuguese people to be emancipated. however, the right continues to defend this flexibility and the consequent reduction in labour rights and low wages. Until he had a Prime Minister who, until a few months ago, said that what he regretted most was that he had not managed to lower the cost of work in Portugal any more, as if this had not been the great brand of his governance over the past few years. Now, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, we know that the country has a current government team that takes into account the problems of Portuguese and the problem of precariousness. What the young people expect from you, I am sure, is, over the next few years, to be able to count on a government that does not leave the Portuguese and that does not invite them, lastly, to emigrate, if the conditions they find in our country are not consistent with their real expectations. That is what the Portuguese expect from this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u114	Mr Pedro Roque, but Mr Ivan Gonçalves no longer has time to answer. Mr Pedro Roque, however, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u115	Mr President, as I also do not have a lot of time, I should like to put some questions to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u116	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u117	Mr President, honourable Member, if you do not recognize the importance of such professionals, then you also deny that the Youth Guarantee programme is an important tool for reducing youth unemployment in Portugal and Europe. Is that so? I would also like to know whether he is unaware, for example, of the fact that the unit cost of work has more to do with productivity than with wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u118	Thank you for your closing, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u119	I'm done now, Mr. President. I would also like to know whether the honourable Member does not know who is in the government at the moment is no longer the PSD, nor the CDS, it is the Socialist Party with the support of the extreme left. Finally, it will tell me if what they have been doing over these five months in terms of working precariousness were only heating exercises. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u120	We are moving to the closing stage of the debate. For an intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For some years now, but especially with the previous government, the PSD government / CDS, precariousness has been taking into account the reality of work in Portugal. The political options based on low wages and undirected work, which marked the policy of the previous government, as well as the various changes to labour law, were decisive factors for the generalization of labour insecurity in our country, for the degradation of working conditions and for the weakening of labour rights. In this respect, it is always appropriate to remember that, when we talk about precarious work, we are talking about relations outside the law; we are talking about dealing with the rights of those who work; we are talking about the violation of fundamental rights; we are talking about the degradation of working conditions; and we are talking about the increase in levels of exploitation. These are the facts, the numbers are even more cruel. in our country, 1, 2 million people work with precarious employment ties, grossly illegal term contracts, green receipts that only disguise a supposed service delivery regime, eternal research grants, which no longer aim at perpetuating precariousness, and temporary employment contracts, in clear comparison with the most elementary rules of law, because they have nothing temporary. This is the work portrait in our country, a portrait of lies, falsehoods and simulations with the sole purpose of misleading unemployment statistics, institutionalizing work without rights and emphasizing the exploitation of those who work. But also a portrait of intervals, because periods of precariousness, short or long, invariably range with periods of unemployment. A few months precarious, a few months out of work—this was the pace that the previous government imposed on young people who did not follow the advice of Passos Coelho, to seek comfort outside their country. And worse, it was the State itself to set an example in the area of precariousness. in fact, it was the state to set an example of the steps that companies would have to take and take. The state gave the example, inside and out of doors. Within doors, because the previous government has put thousands of people working in hospitals, health centres, schools and so many other public services, responding to permanent needs, but with absolutely precarious links. False green receipts, term contracts, temporary employment contracts or employment-insertion contracts, all served to prolong the agony of those who work, all served to undermine unemployment statistics and to deceive numbers. These were the steps taken by the former Government within doors. But outside the door, the PSD/CDS government has also taken great steps, particularly with the long-term unemployed internship programme, placing the State, the contributor to finance the precariousness of companies to benefit from almost free labour. This is the reality that it is important to fight because, when we fight precariousness, we are not only fighting lies in labour relations and undermining the fundamental rights of those who work, we are also fighting unemployment. It is therefore important to restate the truth in labour relations. It is important to value the National Plan of Combating Precaution which the current government has assumed. But it's not enough, it needs a lot more. It is necessary for the State to begin to set an example, with regard to work with rights; it is necessary to value collective bargaining; it is necessary to penalise, in an effective and painful manner, companies that resort to false green receipts, which abuse the use of temporary employment contracts or resort illegally to end-term contracts. Labour relations must be moralized. And the Portuguese can continue to count on The Greens in this fight against job insecurity and the intransigent defence of work with rights. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u122	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We have brought this issue of job insecurity to the debate today in the Assembly of the Republic with the awareness that we are talking about a huge social scourge. The precariousness of work is for the workers affected the precariousness of their own life. The precariousness affects several sectors of activity, in industry, in trade, in small and large commercial areas, the workers of culture and scientific research, public services. We have brought to this debate many examples of young but also less young workers, who are affected by this social scourge. The fragility of the labor relationship, translated into precariousness, is a fragility of the position of workers at all levels. Precarious people have no rights—or they have no rights, or they have employment—are affected by unacceptable situations of low wages and also by extended and arbitrary schedules (precarious workers, as a rule, have hours to enter, but do not have hours to leave), it is practically forbidden to exercise their trade union right. It's a situation that needs to be changed. Precautionary is not an inevitability; it is an option of employers, it is a measure of exploitation of workers, of emphasis on workers' exploitation. Companies impose precariousness on workers to increase the profit of their shareholders. The State, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't give bad examples, you can't give the wrong example you've set. The State cannot be the largest long-term employer in our country. It cannot be a bad example of replacing the job creation, which is so necessary in public services, by precarious programmes, in which workers are poorly paid, are not recognised as full-time workers and are, at the end of these programmes, again released for unemployment, being replaced by others in the same situation. This is a bad example, which the State cannot continue to give. It is therefore essential to eliminate the replacement of necessary jobs in public services by the so-called « active employment measures », which are of enormous indignity. It has already been said here that it is the economy that creates jobs. It's true. The economy involves public investment and private investment. But ensuring the legality of labour relations is an unrelenting duty of the State, giving the example in the public sector and strictly supervising compliance with labour law with regard to the private sector, ensuring the effectiveness of constitutional and legal rights of all workers. There is a need for an implacable fight against false green receipts, for situations where subordinated work is encapsulated and for workers to be forced to register as individual entrepreneurs as if they were in fact not faced with a real subordinated work situation. It is essential that the verification of the defining elements of the contract of work be sufficient proof of the existence of this contract of work and that the situations of false green receipts are automatically recognised as labour contracts, with all rights inherent. The Working Conditions Authority is decisive. It has already been recognized the extreme need for human resources to be strengthened at the service of the Working Conditions Authority and for the re-thinking of their competences, the effectiveness of their decisions to make them dissuasive.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u124	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u125	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are defending the limitation of the eligibility of the term contract, the conversion of term contracts into permanent contracts and the adoption of sufficiently dissuasive sanctions mechanisms for the use of work precariously. We believe that this debate is a starting point for a work to be done in this House, in collaboration with the Government and the parliamentary groups, so that this social scourge, which is the precariousness of work, which affects so many thousands of workers in our country, is effectively diminished and that there are decent conditions for employment and employment, with respect for the dignity of workers. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u126	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Employment or unemployment, the quality of employment, its duration, its safety and stability are too important for us not to take this debate seriously. And for the CDS, whether in opposition or in government, this has always been one of the main and truly important issues of governance. Unemployment is the biggest drama of Portuguese society, which immediately affects families, the individual, and that is why it deserves this attention from all the benches, which I congratulate. What I regret is that, when we were expecting solutions, on a path, of policies that could actually solve the greatest tragedy of Portuguese society, which is unemployment, we have not seen solutions and we have seen a diagnosis already exceeded, an opposition that has not yet realized that it governs, and that is indeed regrettable. In fact, I note that this is the very conviction of the Government that even the Minister has left the debate, even before it has been closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u129	The Portuguese Communist Party, in the presentation of the debate, said that this was a firm step in valuing employment and work and that it did not give up this struggle. However, the CFP has been very short of demonstrating this statement. I made even a suggestion: call for extension 11797, which is the extension of the Socialist Party's parliamentary leader, to start working on such policies that protect employment and end with precariousness because, as Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, the watch is counting, it begins to tic-tac, tic-tac, but employment does not give signs of recovery. [[PCP protests.]] This form of opposition that the PCP brings to us here is in fact a desperate request for new opportunities for the PCP, to see if it does not lose its voting niches and realize that it does not govern. But he rules, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The government is yours, the solutions are yours, and that's what they should focus on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u130	Do not apply your little criteria to others!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u131	I must say, Mr João Oliveira, that this bench has evidence on the fight against work insecurity. [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] It's actually a scourge. Mr President, the first grant, the first aid for an unemployed person is a job. Then we need to create quality, security and stability in this job.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u132	Whatever he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u133	What can most affect all these conditions is the crisis. The crisis is indeed the "mother" of precariousness, but the "father" of the crisis is the Socialist Party and its governance,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u134	... that, over the decades, they have always put the country in trouble, doing something that is fatal to unemployment: lack of financing for the economy, degradation of companies' own capital, lack of trust, which affects all the climate for job creation. It is clear that we need to have good work law, but we have done good work law. It is clear that it is essential to create conditions for the ACT to exercise its control and control power and that we are available to support all of the ACT's reinforcement strategies to combat exaggerations. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] It's obvious, sirs. Members, that the past can be addressed by questions such as who did something about employment, who fought precariousness and who are indeed the perpetrators of precariousness. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a report has been mentioned here, which has not been made by us — praise in our own mouth is guilt — of the European Commission, which has evaluated the previous government in bankruptcy circumstances, in circumstances of financial crisis, and which can now evaluate what you will do in scenarios of economic recovery. But I'll quote. Unemployment level: compared to 4. the quarter of 2015 with 1. the quarter of 2013 — and I will quote the latest Bulletin of the National Institute of Statistics...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u135	I would ask you to quote quickly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u136	Mrs. Members, even if they wish to say otherwise, the fact is that according to the said Bulletin, in the period in question, the full-time population has increased by around 270 000, i.e. work has been more stable, and contracts without term have increased in net terms 220 000. They are data from the National Institute of Statistics that, I believe, you take seriously and, therefore, you can very well realize that whoever fought the precariousness, who fought the crisis, who was able to guarantee that employment is becoming safer, more stable and of good quality was the PSD and CDS government, it was not you. We are waiting for you to do your job. They govern, solve the problems and we will be here to support all policies that are in favour of employment. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u137	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « They said to him: ‘ We only offer you a job if we cut off your hand. ’ He was unemployed a long time ago, had children, accepted. Later he was fired and again sought employment. They said to him, ‘ We only offer you a job to cut off your left hand. ’ He was unemployed a long time ago, had children, accepted. Later he was fired and again sought employment. They said to him, ‘ We only offer you a job if we cut your head off. ’ He had been unemployed for a long time, had children, accepted.”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u139	It's so much easier to evoke emotions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u140	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many ways of talking about abuse, blackmail, slavery and forced labour, even when we disguise them from employment-inclusion. This is one of them: the words are from Gonçalo M. Tavares. I don't know if you're so sorry when I... Maybe not! But they well summarize the idea that some banks have brought to this debate on employment and precariousness. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] Right thinks it's all right, that we're on the right track and that the best thing is not to move. Is there a precaution? Take it! This debate was useful for us to understand how each one is positioned and what ideas it brings. for our part, we recognize in the benches of the left just intentions, positive proposals and possible ways to do it together in this fight. But more important than knowing intentions, proposals and paths will be the concrete decisions we are able to make. There's a sea of people that's looking at us. Let us speak to them of justice, not of balances, which are the strength of the strongest. Let us speak to them of the beauty and dignity of the struggle, not of the lesser evil or "then see...". We are talking about concrete commitments, not just generous intentions. To penalize the illegal practices of false green receipts, exacerbating the sanctions provided for in the law — all in favor? To deepen the law against precariousness, extending to false stages, false bags and false volunteers — are we ready? Will we be able to create the new scheme for workers' contributions to green receipt this year? To extend the scope of the State Labour Conditions Authority’s action and create an automatic mechanism for the renewal of labour inspectors — will we do that?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u141	You know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u142	To begin to integrate, this year, the State constraints, the green receipts of the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formação Professional), the RTP, the Health 24, of the various ministries, of all services, will we be able to? Ending the concrete abuse of employment-inclusion contracts for permanent functions — we are all in favour, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? To look back at work as a right, as a platform of dignity and not as a favor or privilege, which is the way right looks at work. We'll be able to do it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, it is now that we show what we are. We have six months and we have no right to fail! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u143	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : This morning's debate on precariousness has shown the economy of indecency that feeds labour exploitation, but it has also allowed us to show some of the reasons why citizens so often feel disappointed and alienated from political representation. The way the right presented itself in this debate, the attacks that led to the PS and the contrast with its governance over the past four years confirm that the PSD and the CDS only do not accept even to prevent the lack of shame, the lack of memory and the lack of shame. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this debate, we understand that this Parliament is divided between the left that does not accept the precariousness as inevitable and the right that feeds it the inevitability of precariousness as a form of legitimizing and reproducing. The right has no courage to say in these terms because language is always a form of social construction and necessarily propaganda. Being charitable, the right is said to be fair. Being antisocial, it's called liberal. Promoting precariousness, it is called enterprising. And if all this fails, lie. In July 2015 the then Minister Mota Soares said, "From the beginning of 2013 until today we have been able to create 175 000 new jobs. Above all quality and effective jobs'. Mrs. Members, 80 % of the new contracts were completed and the overwhelming majority lasted less than one year. These are not quality and effective jobs. They are an outrage with the numbers with which the right sought to deceive the Portuguese during the pre-election campaign. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u145	Aldrabice are the numbers you have!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u146	Precautionary takes many forms and they are all outraged. They are unworthy because they violate basic principles of social justice, labour stability and life expectancy. A stable, dignified and duly-remunerated employment contract is no good, it is a structural right of a decent society and it has been a guiding principle of social-democracy and Christian democracy that PSD and CDS have ceased to represent in this House. Precautionary affects all: young and old. of the younger adults who are going to become adults at home of their parents, delaying their life to change another stage, more a fake green receipt or more a precarious contract. But it also hits the older ones who plunged into the vertigo of unemployment at the worst of the ages: too many for reform and too old for the'morning singing' of liberalism which has thrown them into unemployment. Precautionaryness does not fight with magic passes, but it is impossible to establish a very clear difference between those who promote it and those who mitigate it, acting against it, among those who reject precariousness and those for whom it is a lesser evil, an inevitable consequence of the market and that there, in the background, is even a way to end what they consider velharias: contracts, collective bargaining, rights, unions. That is why during this debate it has separated us from two models of society. on the one hand, on the right, the belief that it is with less state that the problems of precariousness are solved when not all the problems of the world. The false idea that a worker and an employer are on an equal footing, as the CDS here said, when the worker will always be the weakest link in the labour relationship and the one that has to be protected by labour law, which, in fact, does not exist for anything else. on the other hand, on the left, on the contrary, the conviction that we need to break with the mechanisms that feed precariousness. I would say that we need to precaution the precariousness, we need to break with the perception that the State is permissive inside and out of doors, giving comfort to those who often cross precariousness with illegality, those who sell trainees to those who do not pay extra hours, those who limit rights in parentality to those who enjoy coverage for false green receipts, those who contract in time for permanent needs; and all this, because, because the right has made the precariousness cheap, because the right has so disgruntled that it has lost the notion of decency, has lost the notion of right and has lost the notion of ethics in the world of work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In conclusion, we also do not ignore the ideological cynicism of those who, due to precariousness, promote the goal of a double rupture in our society. She, today, too, was present on the right benches. On the one hand, they are precarious, and with this they push down wages and the exhaustion of demands that, for some, already seem exotic, like paid holidays, but, on the other hand, they also stimulate the war of those who have less than they have, of whom it is precarious against whom it is not, because, under the despair of those who live in the uncertainty of the next day, it is more difficult to fight for collective rights, which will also be theirs, than can be seen in the ideas made by the right has promoted against wages, against stable employment, public against private, young against old, men against women.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u147	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u148	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is this perverse legacy of one against the other that weakens us as a society and that is why the fight against precariousness is a cause that goes to everyone and does not exclude anyone, except the right that has now been excluded from those who want to make the difference. For, as you have seen, you will have the initiative of this government and of this majority for whom the economy is a mere instrument for the defence of human dignity and not a final end in which we exchange justice for injustice, until there is nothing else to exchange. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u149	For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are closing a debate that addresses extremely relevant and crucial issues for the lives of many Portuguese people. Labour issues are not insignificant for the PSD Parliamentary Group. Labour issues are relevant and we should not neglect the difficult situation that many Portuguese still face. I am encouraged to say this because over the four years that we have been debating in this House, we have been fighting for unemployment, for the recovery of our country's dignity and respect, for the growth of the economy, for the recovery of confidence. Here you see the right to speak, eyes in your eyes, with all the ladies and gentlemen. Members of this Chamber, from the far left... [[From the extreme right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u151	...and on the left, to say that we always talked about the scourge of unemployment. [[BE's protests.]] We were told that we have no strategy, that this plenary is divided between the left, against precariousness, and the right, in favour of precariousness. What a demagogy! What a demagogy, not a single idea, not a single project, just talk, just rhetoric, nothing more! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Strategy we have! We have the strategy, we have done work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u152	They've got work done, they've got work done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u153	... that it had to be continued, but you, with this false demagogy and with so many years in the opposition, who have not yet learned that they are government and that now they have to make the decisions, come here to proclaim intentions, denounce and nothing! Zero, it's your projects! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[We have projects!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u154	Let's move on to credibility, because we have strategy! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] We have the credibility to rebuild a country. We have the credibility that we have recovered our economy, increased exports, increased investment, recovered confidence from our partners. We have recovered employment and the report has already been quoted here, for the case of the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. Members have not read it, which confirms that the job created between the 2. the semester of 2014 and the 2. the 2015 semester was essentially with permanent contracts. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It's written! Leiam! We have also recovered unemployment in a sustained way, we have worked on it. And what you condemn, which are active employment measures, and which are diabolical, please, everyone knows that active employment measures are an important tool in retraining many workers who fall into unemployment, recovery of self-esteem and inclusion in the labour market. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the left and of the extreme left, why do not they immediately revoke the measure employment-inclusion contract? If the Government has been able to suspend payments of the stimulus-use measure, why do they not immediately revoke this measure? And so he ends up with « exploited» workers, as you say, in the state. You're done with it. You have not yet learned that they are government! The PCP, the Left Block and the PS are government, act accordingly. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The PS is beginning to feel what it is like to have the knife spread over these measures that so many and so many Portuguese have supported. You have six months to fulfill what they say, it's not six months to dialogue in social consultation, it's not six months to build consensus, it's not six months to reassess in social consultation. Why? Because the CGTP at nothing comes to an agreement at the heart of social consultation. [[PSD applause.]] And therefore they bring to Parliament what they cannot achieve in the context of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u155	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u156	I conclude immediately, Mr President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the romanticism of the far-left parties is over.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u157	from the extreme left was your Barroso Durão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u158	It was in this context that we built, that you are able to build too. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u159	For an intervention to close the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we had here today allows us to draw some conclusions. First of all, before and above any other, the debate has made it possible to emphasize the importance of these matters. And he has come to stress how in recent years these issues and their public perception have intensified. Precautionary phenomena today reach significant parts of the population, today reach many Portuguese and Portuguese, more and less young, and more families. But this is not the only conclusion we can draw. Politically, this debate confirmed what was already expected. It has confirmed from the outset that Portugal now has a government that assumes this reality, that it assumes that precariousness is a problem and that it does not run away from putting it on the political agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But in politics, as in life, problems, I would say, especially the most difficult ones, only when there is courage to take them. As it was quite clear today, there is a marked contrast between this present and a very recent past in which this issue was devalued, purely and simply denied and did not do any part of the agenda of the previous government,... [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] ... with the results that, unfortunately, we know and that many workers and many young people know. But today's debate has also confirmed that there is not only one government that takes up this problem. in this House, there is a parliamentary majority that supports the presence of these issues on the political and social agenda and that is available to work around them and to find solutions that are not easy, but that allow to improve the balance of the labour market. There are parliamentary groups in this House who are aware of the importance of these issues and are committed to creating conditions so that we can take strong steps to solve them. But there are also parliamentary groups that continue very hard to recognize the real dimension of the problem or, even in recognizing it as such,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u162	... and that they continue to deny, against all evidence, that the last few years have not been good, with regard to labour market balances, and that they have aggravated this lunar side of precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are parliamentary groups that continue not to evaluate all the consequences that prolonged instability in the labour market causes in people, in their careers and in their well-being, not only immediately but also for their own life projects, such as impacts on demographic pressures, be compressed by birth, be pushing people, the chorus, out of the country, and also on businesses, which do not invest in training and long working relationships. In short, impacts on the country that loses in human capital, that does not accumulate, and productivity. This line has clearly divided us today in this debate, but no one in this Chamber, which represents the country, will have the right to be excluded from being part of the solution. If it is part of the effort to improve labour market regulation, to rebalance labour relations, to promote stability and compliance with fair and acceptable rules for all, which reduce insecurity and favour investment by businesses and people. Who is against these principles that clearly say so in this Chamber, who assumes it before the country, but, above all, we hope that it will join, by positive, those who want to find solutions to a problem, which unfortunately tells a lot to many people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we speak of precariousness, no government can make a commitment in this House to resolve everything and to transform the labour market we have today in the labour market which corresponds entirely, from one moment to another, to the wishes of many of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[What are they?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u163	These issues, I know, are not new, have increased over the years and, in many cases, atypical forms of employment have been associated with the need to gain flexibility in order to increase the competitiveness of companies in the global economy and, in this framework, to ensure the adaptability of production processes and labour relations themselves. The problem is not in flexible forms of work itself, the problem is in its transformation into successive cycles of temporary insertions in people's lives, the problem exists when adaptation to particular situations becomes general practice and when the exception threatens to become a rule, with pleasure and, in recent years, often with the direct incentive, as we have seen here, of public powers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a problem that, in many cases, gains boundaries that go beyond and out of place today and that cannot fall from our capacity as a society to ensure good regulation of the labour market. No governor, no decision-maker, no politician, being responsible and true, is in a position to make the promise to resolve, one day to the other, many of the issues we are discussing here today, but there are commitments that we have the conditions to take, that we have a duty to assume, commitments that have been taken here today, and these are the commitments that have been lacking in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u164	What were they?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u165	The Government clearly accepts these commitments. The commitment to fight for balanced labour regulation and a labour market that gives people more and better opportunities. The commitment to start a process of dialogue and in-depth work, from then on with the social partners, around strategic priorities, including labour market issues. The commitment to make the State itself a promoter of best labour practices, whether in regulating the labour market or in active employment policies, or even as an employer. The commitment, already assumed in the State Budget 2016, to make a diagnosis of the precarious situations, which have increased in the state until reaching the current state,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...and to trace a path so that they can progressively be limited. It's part of this agenda. The commitment to strengthen the inspection framework of the ACT and to improve its instruments. It's part of that agenda. The commitment to direct the resources of active policies, preferably for young people and long-term unemployed and for longer and more sustainable inclusions in the labour market. It is also part of this agenda. In short, the commitments we have made long ago in the Government Programme. That is to say, clearly, the commitment to find solutions to the labour market, both within the parliamentary framework and within the framework of consultation, what it must be: an area of opportunities shared by businesses and workers, with balanced, transparent and effective rules and gains both from competitiveness and social cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda is the thematic debate required by the CFP on job insecurity. Let us now initiate the vote on the Rules of Procedure, which is why it is important to carry out the electronic verification of the deliberation quorum. As long as the services begin the electronic system, I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Emília Santos, to proceed with the reading of the file. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions Nos 188 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of European initiatives considered as priority for scrutiny under the European Commission's 2016 work programme ( European Affairs Committee ), 189 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal of Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April imposing a widespread loss of hospital valences as well as Order No 13 427 / 2015 of 20 November ending 11 emergency services ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 190 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Public management and integration into the national network of 30 continuous care beds for use at the Vale de Cambra Health Centre ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u168	We shall then begin the process of verifying the quorum of deliberation, for which Mr President. Members should register electronically. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework registers 208 Members and Members. Ladies and gentlemen present, to which the honourable Members add. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS, and Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, of the PSD, who failed to proceed to their electronic registration by making a total of 210 Members present, which means that we have more than enough quorum. Let us then begin by voting No 48/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Appeal to democracy, peace and dialogue in the geopolitical space of the Mediterranean [ Members of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean ( AP-UpM ) and to the Parliamental Assembly of the Mediterranean ( APM ), which will be read by the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, vote No 48 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) shall be of the following content: « March 21 is the Day of the Mediterranean since 2008. In 2016, this date is dedicated to all the peoples of the Mediterranean: those who escape, those who seek asylum, those who are displaced in their own country, but also those who receive these exiles. The signatories, members of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, welcome the participation of the Portuguese Parliament in this area of dialogue between the parliamentarians of both sides of this sea. Traditionally and historically, the Mediterranean has been an area of dialogue, trade, cultural exchange and cooperation. It has been and continues to be the main channel of communication between the European and African continents. Place of many routes that is, therefore, one of the routes chosen today for those who seek to escape war and hunger and for those who are forced to move from their country and their continent to survive. More than ever, in order not to repeat the humanitarian tragedies it has been on stage, the rebirth of a true Mediterranean community, which creates a ‘wave’ of solidarity that has enough energy to unite the shores of this sea is urgent. The Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary therefore decides: 1 — Call for political and social transformations to take place in the south of the Mediterranean, focusing on youth, job creation and the enhancement of the role of women, to expand the area of freedom, dialogue, peace and development; 2 — Call for effective support for growth and employment by the northern Mediterranean states in the tradition of dialogue and cooperation, preventing forced displacements and the risks of life that have led to the deaths that should put us all at risk; 3 — Call on Parliamentary assemblies to unite representatives of the two Mediterranean shores so that they can not only play an active and concrete role in resolving issues requiring forced displacement of populations, but also in supporting the development of democratic institutions and the safeguarding of human rights.'
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u170	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u171	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u172	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u173	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u174	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to vote No 50 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In solidarity with the Saarauís political prisoners on hunger strike ( PSD, PS, BE, The Greens and the PAN ), which will be read by the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Emilia Santos. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Thirteen political prisoners are on hunger strike since March 1st, fighting for justice and freedom. These prisoners are illegally detained by Morocco, targeted by political processes, with falsified accusations, forged testimonies and confessions obtained under torture. That was recognized by the UN, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. These prisoners follow the example of Aminatu Haidar and fight for the freedom and justice that is denied to them. But a hunger strike that has lasted for 22 days is having serious consequences in their health states and the weight loss of each of them is already significant. No 20. the day of strike, two of the Saharan political prisoners lost their senses, Sidhamed Lemjeyid and El Bachir Boutanguiza, the blood pressure was very low and had pain in several organs. This hunger strike occurs at a time when the independence process of Western Sahara may have a significant advance, after four decades of Moroccan occupation. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has been in the refugee camps in the last few days, in the liberated territories, in Mauritania and Algeria, and is committed to reaching a solution. The two struggles are linked: the struggle of political prisoners for freedom and the struggle of the Saarauí people for the end of occupation. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary: 1 — Calls for the release of the Saarauís political prisoners and for solidarity with their struggle; 2 — Expresses solidarity with efforts to achieve a peaceful solution to the Western Sahara territory that respects the UN deliberations promoted by its Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u176	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u177	Mr. President, I'm sorry, may I...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u178	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u179	Mr President, when there is no opposition from the proponents of this vote, and what we are going to vote on next, which affects the same subject, we would like both points 1 and 2 to be voted on separately, until we have different positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u180	So, therefore, having no objection, we will vote on point 1 of vote No 50 / XIII ( 1. ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2 of vote No 50 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u181	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u182	Please, Mr. Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u183	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that we will present a statement of vote on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u184	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us turn to vote No 51 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In solidarity with the Saharan prisoners detained in Morocco and on hunger strike ( PCP ), which will be read by the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « About 13 Saharan political prisoners arrested in Morocco carry out a hunger strike, demanding respect for their rights. These Saharan political prisoners were arrested by the Moroccan authorities in 2010 at the time of the violent dismantling by Moroccan forces of the protest camp of Gdeim Izik carried out by thousands of Saharans in defense of their rights, including the right to self-determination of the Saharan people. These Saharawi prisoners were tried by a military court, having been sentenced to life imprisonment for 20 years. Several entities denounce the illegality of this trial and consider it null and void, pointing to its conduct under an environment of coercion, violation of procedures, absence of evidence and the fact that it is a conviction of civilians dictated by a military court. After five years of his imprisonment and the continued denial of his rights, 13 of the Saharan political prisoners arrested in Gdeim Izik started a hunger strike demanding justice and his freedom. It is recalled that the UN Secretary-General has recently visited Saharan refugee camps, stressing the need for a political solution to the conflict in Western Sahara. It should be noted that the Saharan people have remained firmly, for four decades, in their fight against the illegal occupation of their territory and for the respect and realization of their right to self-determination, recognized by the United Nations, which established the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) for about 25 years. Recalling that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, Portugal ‘recognizes the right of peoples to self-determination and independence and development as well as the right to insurrection against all forms of oppression’, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary: 1. Calls on the Moroccan authorities to release Saharan political prisoners; 2. It expresses its support for efforts to achieve a just solution for Western Sahara, which will necessarily go through the realization of the right to self-determination of the Saharan people, in accordance with and respect for the relevant UN deliberations, the principles of its Charter and international law'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the vote on point 1 of the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2 of the same vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mr. Carlos César, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u187	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the PS Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u188	Be registered. Mr Sérgio Azevedo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u189	Mr President, I would like to inform you that, on the last two votes, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u190	It's also registered. Mr Telmo Correia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u191	Mr President, I note that the CDS-PP will also present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u192	Be registered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 185 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Strasbourg ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 140 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Valorizes long-term contributions, ensuring early retirement without penalties to beneficiaries who complete 40 years of discounts ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 135 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the new Regulation of the Law Box and its subsequent revocation, re-resisting the previous scheme ( BE). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u193	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I and a group of PSD Members will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u194	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 72 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Completion of national road retraining works 125 ( PCP ). For this diploma, the first point 1 shall be voted on, and then points 2 and 3 together together. We shall then proceed to the vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote points 2 and 3. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were adopted and the CDS-PP abstained.]] We are now voting on three opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. Mr. Secretary has the floor to identify you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u195	Mr President, the opinion on case No 120 / 14, 4T9BRG, is to authorize Mr Pedro Soares (BE) to intervene in the case under the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u196	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u197	Mr President, the opinion on Case No 1296 / 16, 1T9PRT, is to authorize Members Mariana Mortágua, Joana Mortágua, Isabel Pires, Catarina Martins and Sandra Cunha (BE) to intervene in the case within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u199	Mr President, the opinion on case No 382 / 15, 0T9FAF is intended to authorize Mrs Clara Marques Mendes ( PSD ) to intervene in the case within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-23.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will be on Wednesday, 30 a.m. at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: debate for the fiftieth anniversary with the presence of Mr Prime Minister. I wish everyone a happy Passover. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 39 minutes.]]
