ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on our agenda, the first item is the urgent debate required by the Government on innovation in the Portuguese economy and, secondly, the discussion of draft resolution No 113 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) of the CDS-PP, which recommends that the Government legislate to allow the Portuguese Environment Agency to share tasks with SEPNA in the context of environmental crimes, in particular by training and certifying its agents so that they can collect evidence that has legal framework. We will move on to the urgent debate required by the Government on innovation in the Portuguese economy. To open the debate, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Start this debate on innovation, in the context of the ongoing public discussion of the National Reform Plan, with only one statement: the bet on knowledge is our commitment to the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat, the bet on knowledge is our commitment to the future and must guide the modernisation of our economic system. We are defending a new political agenda, committed to stimulating young employment, the enhancement, collection and establishment of qualified human resources, scientific employment and the dynamisation of innovation communities, in a context we call open innovation today. This is a difficult goal, that we have moved away in recent years, but it is the only one that should guide us, requiring an extended consensus, which I propose here today. We believe in Portugal and believe that Portugal can be affirmed as an innovative country, with more science and more knowledge. in reality, the bet on knowledge, representing a central design in the Government Program, is directly reflected in the relevance that science and knowledge occupy in promoting innovation and the economy. As recognised by the European Commission, in the document that gave rise to the ongoing reflection on the National Reform Plan, a significant yield gap persists in the Portuguese economy, which represents about half of the average level recorded in all the countries of the European Union. The European Commission is clear in identifying that this hiatus is, above all, associated with two critical issues for Europe today, but certainly also for Portugal. First, the difference in the level of investment in research and development ( R & D) as a percentage of GDP — today, 1, 3 % in Portugal compared to 2 % in the European Union, having already been reached by 2010 the value of 1, 6 %. We know that this process was accompanied by a significant cut in public support for scientific activity, which was also accompanied in an abrupt manner by private investment and the disincentive of companies in research and development activities, with the total annual expenditure in this type of activities to be reduced in Portugal by around 530 million euros between 2010 and 2014, resulting in an increase in Portugal's divergence with regard to Europe. This is a matter that needs to be reversed today. The second aspect concerns also clearly identified in the European Commission's report, at the low level of national labour qualifications, aggravated by significant deficiencies in business management capacities. In fact, the Commission notes that only 24 % of Portuguese between 25 and 54 years of age have university qualifications, resulting in significant progress over the past 40 years, but the proportion of graduates in Portugal remains far from the European average. In fact, these two aspects — on the one hand, the intensity in research and development and, on the other hand, the level of human resources qualifications — which are systematically pointed out as two critical factors of the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy that affect the potential growth of the Product. in this context, the scientific and technological development and cooperation between science and companies must be seen as a central challenge to leverage the activities in which Portugal affirms itself in the European context and the translation of this collaboration in knowledge applicable to new products, processes and organizations. The measures to be implemented are organized on several axes of the National Reform Plan, which will be discussed here in close conjunction with the Minister of the Economy. However, I would like to begin in this initial intervention by pointing out in particular to this Parliament the absolute need to change the course and establish a path that guarantees convergence with Europe. This is the only possible route to Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To this end, I insist that we need to ensure a context that facilitates and stimulates an open innovation context, as already enshrined in the most industrialized and developed societies in Europe. This requires, among other aspects, three critical issues that are now included in the new National Reform Plan. First, the consecration that we need to density our territory in terms of innovation-oriented scientific and technological activities, including, certainly, the development of scientific and technological-based enterprises, but also the autonomy and institutional integrity of our research and education institutions, in a context where the formation and enhancement of human and social capital in the knowledge society requires an absolute priority. Secondly, the progressive digitization of our economic activities, certainly accompanying the development of digital skills and the guidance of many training activities for the development of these own competences. Third, systematically insist on the growing internationalization of our institutions, through partnerships and partnerships between public and private institutions and organizations around the world, facilitating a new stage of global scientific collaboration and based on true scientific diplomacy and innovation. These opportunities require firm political convictions that require broad consensus in this Parliament and that are clearly included in the National Reform Plan. First of all, I welcome the development and promotion, since 2016, of research agendas and mobilising research and innovation programmes, duly agreed between universities, polytechnics and productive tissue, and with companies in particular, in order to enshrine an effective commitment to science and knowledge that stimulates scientific employment. Here we also launch a new policy action to strengthen research activity in the political institutes, which have a particularly appropriate territorial insertion for work with small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u3	Mr Minister, I have to inform you that your time is already exceeded. I asked you to walk to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u4	I'm done now, Mr. President. The second point is certainly in an open innovation context and when we compare ourselves internationally, the need to strengthen intermediate institutions and knowledge transfer, including technological and engineering centres, or other types of collaborative laboratories, in order to encourage collaboration between higher education institutions and productive tissue. To conclude, I affirm and insist on the need to embrace a consensus in Portuguese society in the form that knowledge today has on the impact of the economy. There must be continued effort to support scientific and technological activity and mechanisms for relations and proximity to society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the first round of requests for clarification. Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has made remarkable progress in restoring its external competitiveness in recent years, almost continuously lost from accession to the single currency until the outbreak of the international financial crisis in 2009. In 2015, almost all market share losses accumulated since 1999 had been cancelled. These gains resulted in a wide movement of openness from the economy to the outside, evidenced by the weight of total exports in GDP which, coming from values of the order of 30 %, was already at the end of last year by 43 %. Portugal was thus able to end the second consecutive year in 2015 with a net capacity for financing, growth and significant resuscitation of investment, something that has not been parallel in the last four decades and has allowed our country to reverse the path of accelerated and uncontrolled progression of external indebtedness. The indebtedness, alongside the deficit, is one of the most harmful legacies of the persistence of wrong public policies, favoring a model of failed economy, centered on artificial stimulus of consumption, at the same time that investment and growth were disregarded, decreasing since the beginning of the century. on the offer side, these policies have undermined the fact that in single currency it is not possible to resort to exchange rate devaluation to restore external competitiveness and forced the socialist government of José Socrates to negotiate and subscribe to a hard adjustment programme that brought austerity, break-up of activity and unemployment. Maintaining and increasing external competitiveness is a crucial challenge for the country to aspire to higher levels of prosperity and cohesion, anchoring the social state to the indispensable firm soil, which is the ability to generate wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u8	To this end, it is imperative that public policies do not compromise the fundamental macroeconomic balances reconstructed in recent years, while converging together to create an environment conducive to investment and, above all, to generating investment of greater value and better employment: investment based on knowledge and innovation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u10	Innovation is by nature the product of economic operators' dynamics. But if innovation is not decreed or programmed, nor do public policies no longer play an important role in creating the ecosystem suitable for its emergence, intensification and dissemination of innovative ideas and projects. Since then, in the creation of a framework favourable to the emergence of new companies, often associated with innovation processes. Thus, the focus on start-up companies, based on intensive knowledge and high technological intensity, should be a fundamental orientation of public policies. One key problem of entrepreneurship is its financing. Throughout the European Union there is a clear market failure in financing venture capital funds. In other words, there are few entities operating as funds or investing in such products, unlike in countries such as the United States of America. It is due to the need to continue the trajectory of recent years of affirming the external competitiveness of our economy and the strategic value that innovation plays in this framework that the PSD submits to Parliament a draft resolution containing 33 measures and lines of action in this key area of public policy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u11	It is our understanding that a successful bet on public policies conducive to innovation involves four key areas: strengthening the scarce financing mechanisms of entrepreneurship and venture capital; transferring knowledge from the academic environment to the business environment; creating an ecosystem conducive to risk taking; and innovation and attracting foreign investors. Portugal has made progress in any of these areas in recent years. Despite the very strong budgetary restrictions involved in the Adjustment Programme to which we are forced, we have managed to maintain levels of allocation of budgetary resources to research and development, fundamental to innovation, close to its historical peaks. In 2015, they reached around EUR 1800 million, i.e. 1 % of GDP, the highest ever value reached only in 2010. Without investment, there is no innovation, although innovation does not necessarily derive from the existence of investment. in fact, if the government wants to continue to bet on investment and innovation, it must cut the right with the policies of reversal which it has been maintaining. A government that bases the construction of its first budget on very strong increases in indirect taxes, i.e. on taxes on production and consumption cannot be admired that the trust of those who invest is withdrawn from it. A government that puts forward a confrontation strategy in Europe and seeks to affirm international alignments with Greece, Syriza, cannot under any circumstances be surprised at the fact that many investors have legitimately become afraid of the future. It is to the Government and to no one else who is responsible for catching up on the road: to put the country in front of the electoral agendas excused and to respond with a sense of state to the visible deterioration of the economic environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u12	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u13	I will finish, Mr. President. It is the government and nobody else who is responsible for adopting measures that would allow the succession of increasingly dark projections to the Portuguese economy and the accumulation of signals that seem to confirm them. The PSD is willing to discuss constructive programs based on strategic value bets for the country, such as innovation in the economy. But it is to the government and to no one else who is to reverse the way and create the environment of trust without which everything is nothing but empty promises and unconsequent propaganda. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u14	The Bureau recorded requests for words from two Mrs. Members of the PS. Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for a long time, the national economy has felt the need and demands a strategy of change driven by innovation and modernization processes, a strategic vision that points to a path and sets the fundamental priorities for the national economy and the public policies that support it. The current point of the situation, which we are leaving today, is a translator of the urgency of this strategic vision: the national economy was severely affected by the economic crisis caused by the policies of austerity and the strategy of creative destruction of the last government, which seriously affected the functioning of companies and destroyed the positive impact of public policies followed by the governments of the Socialist Party. Today, the Portuguese economy is faced with various structural strangulations: excessive concentration in mature and low-tech sectors; low market dynamics; severe financial constraints of national business fabric; lack of scale for processes of internationalization of Portuguese companies. On the other hand, the Portuguese economy has with the outside a relationship of great inequality and dependence at various levels, especially because Portugal continues to sell abroad, for its main external markets, low value added products and imports products of greater technological value, finding a know-how not enhanced by the national economy. in another dimension, the result of the policies followed by the former PSD Government / CDS, Portugal has again been sought for foreign investment in the perspective of the country of cheap labour and exploitation of natural resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u16	That's absurd!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u17	We therefore urgently need to change this scenario and the National Reform Plan is here an urgent and unacceptable opportunity. We need to develop the technological base of our companies, we need to stimulate the quality and innovation of our products and services, we need to improve and retain the qualification of our human capital, we need structural investment and foreign investment oriented towards the creation of economic networks. It is in this ambitious framework, a strategic vision of change, which asked the Minister of Economy, within the framework of innovation policies for the economy, in particular public policies, which are the main priorities of the Government in the context of public innovation policies and which role of the public procurement programme for innovation in the national economic system, this challenge is so important for the future of Portugal and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u18	Mr António Eusebius has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I begin by exalting the National Reform Programme ( PNR ), a Programme that aims to respond to the structural challenges that Portugal faces. in recent years thousands of companies have not resisted austerity measures — austerity at all costs — imposed by the previous government. You know what we're talking about. Many companies went into insolvency, fired workers, lost competitiveness, and many lost capacity for regeneration. Mr Luís Leite Ramos, innovation is programmed and proof of this is that when the State cuts in R & D, companies also cut back. The financial imbalance felt had a strong impact on the activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, through the worsening of risk criteria, through significant reductions in the availability of ceilings, through the deterioration of funding conditions. The financing structures of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have remained, and remain, excessively dependent on bank credit and this is very focused on the short term. The National Reform Programme marks this turn, responds to a competitiveness strategy. It is a programme that is no longer based on impoverishment, but which, before, promotes growth, promotes qualifications, promotes employment, restores investment. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, it is necessary to capitalise on companies, it is necessary to move forward with a programme aimed at promoting the reorganization of their financing framework, creating conditions for the sustainability and creation of economically viable enterprises, boosting their resizing, their reorganization, but also thinking about regeneration. Mrs. Members, the former Government executed 4, 3 million euros in 23 months of the Portugal 2020 programme, run by 14 associations and a company. This was the great implementation of the previous Government in 23 months: EUR 4, EUR 3 million from the Portugal 2020 programme! I ask you, Minister, what measures you intend to implement to speed up the procedures for applications to various funds, as well as the payment of your expenditure to businesses, to increase entrepreneurship, quality, increase innovation capacity and enhance the competitiveness of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u20	Mr. Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no innovation in the Portuguese economy without qualified work, there is no innovation in the Portuguese economy without stability of scientific work. It's exactly about scientific work that I'm talking to you here today. It was in February and March that Mr Minister, in two interviews, told us about the problem of the precariousness of the research pockets. There is an express desire to replace postdoc scholarships with work contracts. We follow this will, which was materialized in measures adopted at the meeting of the Council of Ministers. But today, I bring here a case of the ISA pockets, the Higher Institute of Agronomy, which accompany our debate. contrary to the government will, what ISA is doing is sending its researchers with more experience to the street, claiming that they cannot stay in the same institution for more than six years, even though the projects are different. This false argument has already shot to street 13 ISA pockets and this line of action has unfortunately no date to its end. Little by little those who for years, some over 10 or 15 years have done and have done research in the ISA are now thrown out, instead of signing a contract of work with the institution. It is the University of Lisbon itself, responding to the scholarships of the ISA, which says that they should continue in the institution, claiming that the Statute of the Research Fellowship itself does not prohibit the scholarship from competing for new scholarships in that same institution. We are facing a clear abuse of power and of non-compliance with the law. The ISA stockholders ceased to have scholarships and were developing research projects financed by EU funds and by FCT funds ( Science and Technology Foundation ). The place of them will not be empty, other pockets will be contracted with other scholarships and other researchers to continue these same projects that are, today, dependent on these new pockets, because the previous ones are no longer there. Does it make any sense, Minister, that we continue to have a research policy that allows abuse to be granted to institutions, that they use and abuse their contracts? Mr Minister, can we count on your action to solve this problem of abuse that the ISA management exercises on these researchers by giving them a contract of employment, since they have been working in that same institution for years? Finally, and quickly another issue on state laboratories. One of the problems we have today in research and innovation of the economy is the lack of funding in state laboratories. By the time a real funding of state laboratories, why are these not dependent on a purely economical view that many private laboratories are? Today we need to look clearly and courageously for stronger new funding for state laboratories. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u22	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here today about innovation and I am addressing, firstly, the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education for matters that are most directly related to his protection. The National Reform Programme, on the axis of innovation, speaks in cooperation between the scientific world and the business world, which seems very good to us. It should be remembered that the most relevant classic way in this relationship between companies and universities is through the quality training of students in these universities, which thus become contributors of good frameworks in companies and inductors of applied science. But in addition to this, there are other examples of incubators. Many universities, thanks to great extent to their autonomy, have already launched, and even with great success translated into own revenue generation, several incubators and given a response to various business needs. They are examples—that I imagine you know well—the University of Coimbra with the Pedro Nunes Institute, the University of Porto, the Mininho University, or even the Technician, to bring you a closer example. however, this work, which Mr Minister has certainly known, appears here with a reformist scope, so I assume that he will do anything substantially different in this matter than what has been done so far. However, PowerPoint does not explain exactly what. So, given that there is already a real approach, which stems from the work and autonomy of many universities, for several years now, I ask you: in this matter, what do you intend to do different from what has been done so far? The PNR also talks about increasing the stock of knowledge produced in the National Scientific and Technological System and the Minister has spoken several times and, in my view, well! — against the blind use of bibliometrics as an indicator of measurement of this stock. How, then, do you intend to measure this evolution? How can we determine that there has actually been an increase in the knowledge and stock produced in the National Scientific and Technological System? Furthermore, this stock can only increase by one of two ways: either who is in the System produces more or, then, there will be entry of new researchers into the System to extend the production base. in this context, in concrete terms, I wonder how the new doctoral recruitment scheme, which Mr Minister has announced, will work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u24	I wonder if a new career will be created for these people, whether they will only have research functions or also teaching functions, because I imagine that they understand the relevance for those who are already in these careers. Finally, Mr Minister, if I may, I would like to know how you intend to reconcile the political improviability of your Ministry, at least from the budgetary point of view, with this objective of strengthening investment in research and development, because recent practice has revealed a confusion between being captivating and captivating, or, in other words, revealed an apparent disauthorisation by the Ministry of Finance with the captivating of 57 million euros of university and political revenues, which focused, above all, on own revenue and Community funds and which was only reverted after a wave of protests, very audible, by the CCISP(Coordinator Council of Higher Political Institutes) and the CRUP (Council of Rectors of Portuguese Universities). [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u25	So, Minister, what guarantee does he now offer us about the ability to implement his innovation policy and the objectives of this document? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u26	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of the speaker, I would like to ask you to exchange your impressions a little more quietly. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Minister, in his speech, said that the warning on the low level of academic qualifications of Portuguese workers was pointed out by the European Union and in the report he cited. I begin by saying that it would really be ironic, if it wasn't so revolting, to see that such warnings came precisely from the promoters and policy leaders who pushed for emigration close to half a million Portuguese, removing from this country an important part of this generation of graduates, doctors,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u28	... of researchers, highly qualified technicians who saw their country stay behind, when they began looking for work, and those who were so often with high qualifications to be confronted with unemployment and unbridled exploitation in work that does not exactly have to do with their training. But it is not only the European Commission, it is noted, that such repairs come. See the IMF, the other partner of the troika. The IMF found that Portuguese companies are among those who spend less on research and development and pointed out by 40% the increase in investment that would be required by companies in this area until we could add « by companies that have survived the IMF and its revenues, troika revenues, right policy revenues, companies that have not fallen into insolvency, closures, the destruction of the productive apparatus ». [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u29	This is because, in terms of the destruction of the productive apparatus, the last government actually has evidence given when we come to the conclusion that only two or three years from now, at a distance of two or three years, is that we will be producing under the same conditions, in terms of the level of production, that we had before we arrived at the troika. We have an economic fabric with gross emergency problems that cannot think about innovation because you are thinking about treasury, that you cannot think about research because you are thinking about credit, that you cannot think about the future because you are thinking about survival. This is a problem that concerns the whole economy and that is what you are talking about. Members should not refer only to being start-up, gazelles and internationalised companies. We want to say here that there is an unmistakable fact: at a historically low level of investment of companies in research, a framework of degradation and dismantling of the national scientific and technological system, of the precariousness and exploitation of our researchers, of the scientific research fellows, of trainees, which the economic groups entrust to universities and research centres to then boast of the links to universities. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u30	In conclusion, Mr President, there is a fundamental policy that must be dynamized and carried out at national level, facing seriously the constraints that our economy and our country face, caused and architected precisely by those who then warned us about the structural delay in our economy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u31	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the knowledge bet is in fact an axis or one of the central axes of the National Reform Programme with which the Government intends to respond to the country's structural problems. And both the National Reform Programme and the central axes that give it are, in our view, in line with the Government Programme, but still, in particular with regard to innovation in the economy, new developments with regard to the Government Programme. We are talking, for example, about setting goals that will in some way be able to measure the degree of success of the policies proposed by the Government in this area, including the diversification of exports, the promotion of entrepreneurship and, finally, the necessary investment in research and development. It is a very visible and very felt fall, especially in the last four years, with the PSD/CDS Government literally halting investment in innovation and development financed through public funds. Furthermore, the PSD/CDS government not only stopped investment in innovation and development and business innovation, but also stopped the cooperation of companies with the scientific world. And these policies also matter to reverse. These policies also need to be changed. It is therefore necessary to train scientific and technological institutions and to look for ways that can help to strengthen the cooperation of these institutions with companies, because putting knowledge to the service of the country's economy is, in our view, an absolutely important element when we talk about innovation in the economy. But, Minister, there is also in the National Reform Programme a set of measures aimed at increasing the energy efficiency of companies. It is a matter which the Greens would like to stress, not only because of the importance of this matter from an economic point of view, but above all because of the importance it assumes from an environmental point of view and its potential contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change which are undoubtedly associated with them. Therefore, because of the relevance that this matter represents, the Greens believe it would be important for the Minister to be able to tell us something, because we know very little about the measures that the Government intends to implement in relation to increasing the energy efficiency of companies and which has much to do with the environmental impacts resulting from energy consumption, which contribute decisively to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and also to combating climate change. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u33	To reply, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, Manuel Caldeira Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for your questions and for your speeches. The importance of innovation for companies and the various export sectors has been mentioned here, and the importance of innovation for the competitiveness of the economy. This is the view that the Ministry of Economics has: innovation is a very important factor in increasing productivity and is also a very important factor in creating value for improving not only production processes but also product processes. The Portuguese sectors that in recent years have prospered and that better performance in exports are those who have known how to make this path, how to use innovation, how to use knowledge to improve their performance and competitiveness. It was not the sectors that managed to lower the most prosperous wages, it was not the sectors that managed to withdraw more rights to the most prosperous workers, but instead it was the sectors that managed to invest in innovation, who also knew how to invest in vocational training and who knew, in connection with knowledge centres — and I draw attention not only to the fact that they are universities but also to the very important role that technological centres have — to create more value. Several questions were raised here at the start-up level. As you know, we have already announced the Startup Portugal programme, which we will soon launch with more concrete measures, and, in the measures already announced, we include a wide range of measures including not only the part of financing but also the part, responding to the question that has been put on the incubator networks, of a greater connection between existing incubator networks in Portugal. As we know, we have incubators in Portugal and some of the examples mentioned here related to university are very good incubators, who are doing a very good job. We also have other incubators who, due to their size, still have services to insufficient companies and probably do not make all the contributions we would like to make to the visibility that these companies deserve. Startup Portugal, networking these incubators, which are already more advanced with the others, which is to help all companies have access to better services. But it is not limited to this, it also has measures at the level of financing and risk capital, at the level of tax incentives not only for those companies but also for the business angels who support them, it has measures of legislative simplification and to create a free zone for innovation which allows these companies, in case they are not yet doing so, to have exceptions, to be able to innovate and to do so in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u35	Mr Minister, I am sorry, but you would like to have the kindness to suspend your intervention for a while, so that I can appeal, which I have done recently, to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of conditions in the Chamber which will make it easier for the speaker to listen to himself. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your cooperation. Please proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u36	Other issues such as the financing of innovation, the financing of science and its evolution in recent years in Portugal have been raised here. In this regard, I stress that when the State cuts investment in innovation, private people cut investment in innovation. Investments in innovation, by the type of risk they have, by the type of projects and by the boldness they involve, must have a public partnership with the private. When the State does its role, the private do better their role, and this is a very clear message I leave here. The Ministry of Economics does not want, nor does it see with good eyes, that it is the State to do what is the role of the private. It is up to the private to invest, to risk, to manage their businesses, to undertake. the State must create conditions, this is the responsibility of the State, and it is not only in Portugal, it is in Portugal, it is in Germany, it is throughout Europe and it is also in the United States. the State must create the basic conditions, either of scientific capacity, or of framework training, or of support for innovation, or of support for venture capital, so that privates do their activity in the country that gives them all opportunities. So let them do it here in Portugal. What we have seen in Portugal in recent years, and unfortunately also in other European countries — and here I have to agree that European policies in this area have in fact been contradictory to the 2020 strategy itself — is that the countries that have had the State's de-investment in science have also returned to business investment in innovation. There are still a few more questions, but I would like to give the floor to my colleague of science, with whom we have very well connected our action, but not without leaving a word on the issue of energy efficiency. Energy efficiency is very important, energy efficiency in companies is an important part of the innovation process, which we are aware of, and which has important effects on the environment and also on cost reduction and competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u37	Even in the time left for the Government to respond, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from this debate that, in order to innovate, we need to know and, in order to know how to do, as Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP said, more knowledge is needed to act beyond the treasury. Three basic notes on this process: to innovate more qualified employment is needed, to innovate requires a diversified network of institutions and to innovate it is clearly necessary to stimulate these activities. First, on employment, it is our absolute priority to devote an incentive programme to qualified employment and scientific employment and, for that, we are in a negotiating process with the institutions, after approval by the Council of Ministers. We are going to congratulate you, and we will certainly be able to do so, also with Parliament's support. Secondly, on the institutions, I certainly welcome the intervention of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS. Of course, today we have institutions that were created after scientific policies of the 1990s, to make the transfer of knowledge, and we also have, a few years ago, encouraged the professionalization of the incubator network. But today it is also necessary to think beyond the university context, and therefore the role of intermediate institutions, which has been recognised throughout Europe, is now particularly critical in Portugal. Therefore, we are working on a policy stimulus program and, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Economics, we are working on a network of collaborative laboratories to certainly diversify our institutional panoply, along with the ultimate objective of concentrating on the densification of scientific and technological activities in the territory. This is our goal, density, diversifying the institutional gap, which is certainly done with more jobs. It is indeed a privilege to have so many young people to attend this debate and it is for these young people to address us, because it is with more knowledge that scientific curiosity is more innovating. Now, in order to do and to inform, in addition to the treasury, we need to have more young people involved in scientific and technological activities and with them stimulate curiosity to innovate, develop new products and new processes and stimulate new organizations. Therefore, we want laboratories in collaboration between scientific-academic tissue and productive tissue, because only with this can we also train our society and density the territory. Clearly, the range of institutions that we have must be strengthened and, therefore, the goal of getting closer to Europe is necessarily to concentrate public and private investment and reinvert the process of European convergence. The European Commission document that gave rise to the National Reform Plan is particularly clear on these two objectives: to increase public and private investment in higher value-added activities and to strengthen qualifications and qualified employment in Portugal. The forced emigration of qualified people over the last few years must be reversed and therefore our stimulus to qualified employment and scientific employment. Innovation is made with people, innovation is made with people with more knowledge and that is why our devotion is to pay back knowledge to Portuguese and clearly strengthen investment in activities of greater value added. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u39	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Bureau needs to make a third appeal again so that good hearing conditions are created in the Chamber, it will have to be a little more vehemently. I would like to ask you to cooperate with me. Members so that this is not necessary. To initiate additional requests for clarification, Mr Antonio Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to hear the honourable Members. Ministers speak here about research, innovation and investment, associating the question of the transfer of technology from scientific-technological entities to business entities. It is curious that they have been in the government for months and, as far as we know, mappings for scientific and technological infrastructures, so that they can be able to present their applications, zero; the ANI (National Innovation Agency) and the Government have done nothing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u41	It is amazing how you present this matter here, when we have zero on this subject. But I leave a few notes here, since we are talking about innovation, research and development. Strengthening research and innovation infrastructure; promoting enterprise investment in innovation and research; developing business links and synergies to the scientific and technological world; promoting entrepreneurship by, inter alia, facilitating the economic exploitation of new ideas by encouraging the creation of new companies; strengthening ICT application in the administration at all levels; investing in institutional capacities; supporting the creation and expansion of advanced capacities in the development of services and product promotion. Mrs. Ministers, we are talking here about Portugal 2020. These measures I have told you about are measures which the Government has totally failed to implement on the competitiveness and internationalisation agenda, but I take note of the question as to whether this is serious. No, it's not serious, is it? Oh, my God! And for a very simple reason: you should be building on the heritage that you received from the previous government. [[The inheritance!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u42	Grave is the set of reversals that this government and the parties that support this government have been doing over the last few years, that, yes, is serious! The PSD, with its draft resolution, presented 33 measures in which it intends to go much further than the proposals you put forward. In practical terms, the government and the PS are adopting that old socratic tactic, which we already know, of the famous PowerPoint, which they had finished, we thought, but no, they are back. We thought the repeated announcements of the same million, always of the same million, were over, but not. They're back again, with a new garment, right, but they're back. And they must be around here getting to the shops, the croquettes and that whole thing that the taxpayer has to pay, remembering, too, the past time, the architecture offices, the party... I remember the friends of friends and the negotiators of friends on behalf of the state who, too, are already around. We've seen this film, the film of spending happily and impoverishing the country sadly. What we do not want is for you to flee our investors, what we do not want is this State budget to be an enemy of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u43	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u44	We do not want investment, especially external ones, to be harmed. Mr President, in conclusion, I would also like to note that you are losing confidence in investment in Portugal and I hope that they will change their course. It's time to do something good for our country, for the sake of Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u45	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Government again on bringing this debate together by the Ministers of Economics and Science, Technology and Higher Education, because that makes sense. This makes sense because science is not for some supposedly excellent, science is for the country, it is for the development, it is for the companies, it is for the territories, it is for the people. This makes sense. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the report on Portugal on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances indicates a number of structural challenges that our country must face, but notably the European Commission, in that report, has forgotten some of the challenges that the PSD has remembered. The European Commission did not remember saying that we should be concerned about Syriza. The European Commission did not remember saying that we should be concerned about the extreme left. And the European Commission did not remember to say that the former government left the « Wonderland », especially the « Alice ». in this regard, what does this report say about the services of the European Commission? For example, the completion rate of higher education in the 30-40 age group has increased over the last 10 years, but quality challenges are emerging: approval rates are falling, unemployment of newly-licensed people is very high, lack of career prospects and low salaries for graduates are encouraging qualified emigration. That is what the European Commission report says, not from the extreme left, neither from Syriza, nor from the myrific heritage that only the PSD remembers. The European Commission report says that we are still doing very little to intensify cooperation between higher education and science and businesses, and the European Commission report is not about the last four or five months, it is about the last four years, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. See if you remember that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] with regard to the research and innovation system, the same report says that Portugal has managed, from a very limited previous base, to greatly increase this research and innovation, the so-called "Mariano Gago factor", and that in recent years, research and development have fallen, again, from the European Union's average, and I quote this report from the European Commission : « Innovation performance(...) remains below the EU average, making the transition to a more knowledge-based economy(...). So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to stop telling Alice stories in Wonderland and face the reality of the country, because the reality of the country is precisely the need to join economy, companies, research centres and higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u47	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u48	I'm done now, Mr. President. To that end, we encourage the Government to continue in this line, but I would like to ask you two questions. Ministers for Economics and Science. Mrs. Ministers, in this fundamental area, what are we to facilitate cooperation between research, higher education and the economy? What can we do better? What else can we do? with regard to the regions, the line of increasing the research of the polytechnics, of increasing the relationship between the polytechnics and the regions, something that has already begun, what can we do more? It is about this that we question ourselves for the future, that is what we have to answer and let the conversation spends on a spiritual heritage, which nobody sees, except those that are closed in black boxes and that nobody understands. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u49	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a problem with productivity in Portugal, of course, which is commonly presented as a justification for the maintenance of low wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u51	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u52	But it is not the responsibility of the workers, let us agree! Portuguese workers in Luxembourg, which are 20% of the active population, are highly productive because the country is at the top of international productivity. The Portuguese working in Auto Europa are also highly productive, the problem lies in the management culture of Portuguese organisations, the culture of « jeitinho », « deserrasca », with planning and cooperation. Culture of distrust of other citizens, appearing in Portugal within the framework of the European Union to 27, as the second country with the highest rate of distrust immediately behind Cyprus. Now, given these factors, a bet on entrepreneurship, individualism, the messianic character of possible investors, will not solve the problem, but rather tend to aggravate it. It is necessary to do different and do better, as the Government Programme says, and it is very well necessary to promote a culture of cooperation in enterprises, between companies and the State, an environment conducive to collaboration, with a view to research and exports, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u54	Another factor to be stressed is the low level of qualification of Portuguese employers, of which 80 % do not have secondary education, when in Europe they will be around 28 %. Do you need training? Of course! They need training in many valences, but not in entrepreneurship, because they are already entrepreneurs, they have already created their own business. It is also worth stressing here the hypocrisy of the benches of the previous majority, which, after having destroyed the economy, cut incomes, what they say to the entrepreneurs is the following: "Do they not have customers? They're going to take a course of entrepreneurship that solves it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” There are two failures here on this issue of entrepreneurship, which I want to make clear here: one, is the very low success rate, 3 %, only, of the projects, survive at the end of five years, but if we consider projects that don't leave the paper because they can't get funding, then that low indicator to 0, 1 %, 1 in every 1000. What about the others? Those who are on their way? This crowd, with their lives shattered and indebted, what answer do we have for it? Another fallacy is the American example presented as a model of private investment in high technology. Yes, there are very important sectors in the aerospace industry, in computer science, but these sectors emerged in a context of very strong public investment in post-war motivated by space race, arms race. Therefore, public investment was the engine of the growth of these companies, those sectors of activity and not the mistified genius of some investors. Creating many companies, startups, is easy, it is done at the time, but that is not the challenge; the challenge is that they stay in the activity, that create quality jobs, compete for local development, that do not delocalize their activity at the first opportunity and do not decapitalize themselves to satisfy investors' profits expectations. In view of these concerns, the cooperative model has clear advantages. These concerns should also govern the selection of foreign investment, which is productive and non-speculative, which creates wealth that is retained in the country and does not extract fixed income. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u55	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today to hold a debate on innovation in the Portuguese economy and expect it to be, in fact, about how we can grow more and more sustainably, how we can create more jobs and quality jobs, how we can internationalize the Portuguese economy and how we can continue to export more and more sustainably. The truth is that these debates have had a result that is exactly the opposite of what I have now stated. Today, we realize why the government is hiding the accounts, is doing this debate hiding the stability programme. In fact, the economic model that is currently based on consumption is giving very negative results to Portuguese people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u57	We know, but not because the government has come before the Portuguese to say what are the figures in the macro scenario, presenting it clearly to the Assembly of the Republic, to the representatives of the Portuguese people, we know why a source of BE, in negotiations with the government, came to say... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u58	... that, in fact, there is a decrease in growth, there is a decrease in job creation and, in this sense, what we have for Portugal with this'management' is bad news. Let me give you, Minister, three very concrete examples of what we have before us. First example: growth in our economy. Portugal, in 2011, the result of reforms such as the fall of IRC and the fall of the labour market, reforms of these contractualized with the social partners, effectively achieved that the growth of its economy was 1, 5 %. Today we know that the economic growth that you expect for 2016 is 1,3 %, therefore, below last year's value. The second example is employment. Portugal has achieved, from 2013 to 2015, the result of the reforms it has made, to fall by almost 5 percentage points to its unemployment rate. Today we should be able to create some 200 000 new jobs in the coming years; today we are aware that 80 000 jobs will be created in Portugal. Third example: exports. Four years ago, Portugal was able to grow by around 10 % of the product the weight of exports, from 30 % of GDP to 41 %, and we should continue to grow, reaching 50 % of GDP by 2020.Now we know that the government's outlook is to reach only 47 %, not by 2020 but by 2023. These are three examples of how you have exchanged a model of economic growth, job recovery, confidence recovery and investment for a model that is an adventure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u59	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u60	I shall finish now, Mr President, by hoping that you will give me the same tolerance that you have given the Socialist Party. I would say, Mr Minister, that you have changed a model that was continuously making the growth of our economy by another model that is an adventure. We understand what this debate is. This debate is a hidden stability programme with a NRP (national reform plan) from outside. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u61	And that is also what we want to report here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u62	Mr João Ramos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Research capacity in our country has a close relationship with productive capacity. It would be better to say « should have », since the research and laboratories of the State supporting the productive sectors have come to be victims of cross-investment to the Public Administration. Portugal had a number of research and support laboratories disseminated by the national territory, which, for example, in the area of agriculture, are very much needed to promote more and better production. State laboratories are the guarantor of equity in support of productive sectors, the guarantor of independence and even contradictory in relation to business laboratories.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u65	For example, farmers today are dependent on technical support and advice from business laboratories that then sell their products to them. If the farmer does not want or cannot pay or, even if he wants to buy other products, he automatically loses access to support and advice. The absence of a network of research and monitoring laboratories leaves producers completely dependent on those who sell them products. Of course, the conditions are guaranteed for the concrete company to succeed, but the interest of the productive sector is concerned, in short, the interests of the country. This situation of de-investment in state laboratories, being old, had a great aggravation with the previous PSD / CDS government, leaving the laboratories without conditions to fix researchers and some of them today can't buy reagents or pay the bill of water. These options called into question the continuity of important state laboratories, such as the centres responsible for safeguarding the animal genetic heritage and germplasma necessary to feed the country. The output of researchers is dramatic not only for the life of professionals as for the productive sectors benefiting from their work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u67	This is an example of the case of ISA investigators ( Superior Institute of Agronomy ), who denounces the clear precarious situation in which researchers live today and to which Mr Minister has not yet put forward any response, so we ask him to do so, to clarify the researchers who hear this debate. This is also the case of the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), from which researchers who carried out such important tasks as monitoring the stock of sardines during the severe situation of the lack of sardine that determines the stopping of the fleet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u69	The reversal of this situation is fundamental. The existence of a state laboratory network at the service of a country's development strategy is fundamental to our collective future. Private laboratories serve the business strategies of their own entities and are state laboratories that can guarantee support for productive sectors that respect a country development strategy and national interest. The examples I describe have a close relationship with the agricultural sector and with fisheries but are extensible to other productive sectors. The development challenges of the country involve a rupture with the prospect of eliminating the capacity of the state to investigate and this rupture implies an appreciation of the state laboratories behind proper financing and valorization of their workers, particularly researchers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u70	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : Through the National Reform Programme, the Government also intends to redirect the EUR 10, EUR 5 billion from Portugal 2020, where, moreover, it intends to mobilise other sources of funding, such as the European Strategic Investment Fund, which will contribute around EUR 2000 million. But one of the problems that has been raised in this area, that is, one of the problems that has been raised when we talk about funds, is related to the difficulties and obstacles that companies face in the process of applying for funds. This makes a lot of sense especially in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. They are processes with unacceptably excessive and incomprehensibly complex bureaucracy, which also requires companies to hire other companies to develop the application procedures for funds. This is a problem for companies in general but mainly for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and which also brings another problem: the involvement of third parties in the preparation of applications leads to the fact that a share of these funds does not end up reaching the real recipients, because it is lost among intermediaries. Therefore, at the level of innovation, the Government should also look at the need to simplify and reduce the bureaucratic weight of applications for funds. And in this context, because we are also talking about innovation, I think it would also be important for us to know whether the government is considering taking some measures in this direction. That is, does the Government intend to take measures to simplify the application procedures for funds allowing third-party companies to be exempted, especially from micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because we would not only be ensuring that the funds would reach their recipients and that we would also facilitate the life of these companies? [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u72	I'll appeal again to the ladies. Members to create conditions in the direction of speakers if they listen in the best way, preferably not holding meetings standing in the Chamber. I now give the floor to Mr Minister for Economic Affairs at the end of the second round. Please, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, of course, I would like to thank the questions, but I would also like to return some of them to whom you have asked. in the case of Mr António Costa Silva, it seems to me to come to ask about the mapping of the institutions and talk about the work that the ANI (National Innovation Agency) did or is not a little displaced, in the sense that the previous government, whose majority it supported, extinguished the AdI ( Innovation Agency ) and then returned and created it with another name, but did not provide it with means and we had to finish the admission contest. It is therefore difficult for these institutions to work when extinct and recreated, but the means are not available to them. This work is being done, and there we have the same concern, and it is being done now because the conditions have been created by the current government. When it came to capitalization I showed satisfaction here for the presentation of measures by the Social Democratic Party and for the constructive attitude that this reveals. Obviously, the simplest political response could be: "they are now presenting measures after four and a half years of governance in which they have not done so. It is obvious that they did not do so because otherwise they would not be presenting them, but it is also obvious that not much has been done in all previous governments and, therefore, we have to take advantage of the measures they present, some of which are consistent with ours, others are somewhat vague and therefore we have to understand better in debate with you, but we will have a constructive attitude. But it's interesting that they present them. In reply to the PS Member, it is true that the European Commission's report on the last four years is not commendable, but it is also not as critical as some Members who have spoken here have referred — at least I would not express it in such a critical tone as Mr Antonio Costa Silva did. As to saying that it is time to start doing anything in a way for science and innovation in the economy is a very strong phrase and I think it is too harsh a criticism of the previous government, but let us — we have to record — as having at least some truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to answer Mr Pedro Mota Soares on the issues he raised about economic growth. The data you cited went out of the press but are not given by the government. I saw these data in the press but they are not data from the government. However, if you see the data from some international institutions, it is true that they present a cooling of growth, which we are concerned about, and that is why we are taking action to reverse them. This new estimate, or review of the estimate, refers to a cooling that has occurred in the last half of last year and that is what has led them to review the estimates. It seems to me that the transition of government and the longer process of its takeover might have had some effect, but the data also speak of the international environment, which has changed and led to a review of expectations by some international institutions regarding growth in Portugal but also the revision of growth expectations in almost all Western countries, and even in several non-Western countries, which I think have nothing to do with the taking over of the new government in Portugal. So, obviously, we see these revisions of growth prospects with concern. However, I do not think that they are due either to the problems of the past four years or to the current problems, but rather to a transition situation from the end of last year and also to the international environment. The Greens Ecologist Party spoke here about the problems of the funds. There is important work to be done in simplifying, providing more information and access to information and support so that small business entrepreneurs can themselves apply for funds. We fully agree that this is necessary and that is what we are doing with IAPMEI, with AICEP and several other institutions that deal directly with companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u74	For an intervention, while still available, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already spoken in qualified employment, we have spoken to people, but innovation also depends on the environment of trust generated in the economic fabric, certainly, and also decisively in the scientific and technological system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u76	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u77	contrary to what Mr António Costa Silva said, in fact, confidence has been restored. As an example one year ago, on 15 March 2015, only 275 proposals had been submitted to the National Innovation Agency. In three months of government we were able to triple this and also triple private investment in proposals which were submitted until 15 March last, in a total number of 472 proposals. And this only after three months of entering the government and creating a climate of trust with the companies themselves and the scientific system. It is also a matter of confidence when we want to develop regions and cities with knowledge and attract the political fabric to collaborate with small and medium-sized enterprises. In reply to Mr Porfirio Silva, I would say that doing more implies involving people, giving confidence to institutions and, to that end, a clear strategy of open innovation, we are working on a system that stimulates an open science culture in Portugal so that people can have confidence and encouragement to participate in this odyssey which is to promote knowledge and to dignify our society with more economy, more culture and, above all, more knowledge. To this end we need people and qualified people, especially in the context of opening up knowledge to society and the economy. Certainly, if we have to value activity and give confidence to private actors, we well know, for many decades, that innovation also depends on the encouragement and confidence in public interest research. I recognize the interventions that have been made in the state laboratories. I have already reported on what we have done, particularly in the agricultural area, by working with the necessary discretion, with the universities, polytechnics and state laboratories, in particular in the re-energization and dynamization of the Agronomic Station of Oeiras, in close collaboration with the INIAV ( National Institute for Agricultural and Veterinary Research ) and already, from next Thursday, with the launch of the first political forum between the agricultural schools and the experimental network of INIAV, which will take place in Beja. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also clear that, not only in the agricultural sector, scientific employment in state laboratories and public laboratories associated with universities, including, of course, ISA, will be the focus of our attention, particularly in the context of the legislation currently being negotiated with trade union and institutional partners. We want and believe that the situation will be resolved in the coming months. It is therefore in this climate of trust, believing in people, sharing more knowledge, that one can certainly dignify a social and economic context that looks at innovation as a design of a country that wants more knowledge, more science and more culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u78	I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: last April 6, I presented myself to this House to initiate a series of debates around the National Reform Programme, which promotes more growth, better employment and greater equality. The debate that has taken place today undoubtedly reinforces these objectives. This debate, for which I came with the Minister of Science, also shows the joint work that we are doing in this government, and I would like to welcome and praise the collaboration of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The Portuguese economy remains a deficit in productivity which has been systematically mentioned in the European Commission's assessments of the other countries of the European Union. The resumption of investment in research and development and the strengthening of support for innovation are priorities taken up in the Government's strategy. Talking about science and innovation is not a choice. There is no innovation without scientific development and there is no competitiveness without innovation. Innovation is essential to the survival of companies, it is essential to the growth of companies, it is the key to the development of the Portuguese economy. The Portuguese companies that claim today in international markets are exactly the companies that have been able to invest in innovation and who have learned to value the contribution and talent of their workers, thus increasing productivity and improving the quality of their products. More knowledge is needed at the service of companies and it needs to be done in all companies but above all in small and medium-sized enterprises. In this sense, we are developing the Training Programme, which aims to provide the technology and interface centres with human and material resources for companies to find, in these intermediaries, sustainable partners of innovation. We want to give more means to the institutions that already work with companies today, we want them to continue to do their work but can do it more and more better. The Training programme has created funding mechanisms for technological centres, has strengthened its competences with the integration of qualified frameworks, with scientific employment and with members of higher education, which we want you to have incentives to strengthen your collaboration with them. while we are here promoting young and qualified employment, we will be strengthening the capacity of these centres and transferring knowledge directly from universities to companies. The Training Programme also addresses two other challenges. On the one hand, it will involve technological centres in promoting energy efficiency. These centres, which are in direct contact with the industry, know -and know the technology used in Portugal, are the ones that can best improve the quality and the upgrade of technological efficiency. This is important for environmental reasons, but it is also important to strengthen competitiveness and reduce costs to Portuguese companies. We also want these institutions, and with the programme we are developing to digitalize the economy, to be points of transition from new information and new technologies to companies that want to embrace the challenge of digitalization of technology in the fourth industrial revolution. This challenge is not only for software companies, it is not only for technologically advanced companies, it is transversal and can create very interesting opportunities in all sectors, both traditional and medium-tech, where Portuguese companies who want to continue to be suppliers of the largest international groups have to enter into the same logistics schemes that these companies are already using today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We also launched an ambitious programme, the Startup Portugal programme. This programme includes not only a link between the various business incubation centres, as already mentioned here, but also funding lines, venture capital and Business Angels, with a value of EUR 460 million. These lines are already being prepared and warnings must be launched in the coming weeks. We want to provide more funding conditions but also better funding conditions. I also refer to the creation of the Seed programme, which includes tax incentives for startup companies, because it is not enough to talk about support for entrepreneurship, it is necessary to differentiate and give special conditions to these companies... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u80	Attention to time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u81	Of course, Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. Finally, the programme also includes measures to simplify legislation in order to make the operation of these companies simpler and to make it easier for companies, who want to be innovative, to do new things which may not eventually be provided for in the legislation, with exceptions so that they can develop new products in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All of these are structural interventions to ensure that Portugal moves sustainably to the knowledge-based economy, to increase productivity and to increase innovation-based competitiveness. We want to have companies in Portugal that bet on innovation, that bet on the talents of young Portuguese and not companies that fight only with cash problems or companies that bet on just lowering costs, lowering working conditions and wage conditions. This is an important difference in our policy, this is our commitment, this is our commitment and this is the meaning of the measures that we are presenting today and that we are presenting in the National Reform Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u82	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the urgent debate, we will move on to point two of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 113 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government legislate to allow the Portuguese Environment Association to share tasks with SEPNA in the context of environmental crimes, in particular by training and certifying its agents so that they can collect evidence that has a legal framework ( CDS-PP ). To present the draft resolution, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recently, the issue of environmental crimes came to collapse with the river Tejo as a background and, among other problems, its pollution. Since mid-2015, the Tejo River has been the target of increasing attention, both from environmental organizations and civil society, and from political power itself. The irregularity of the flows, the obstacles built along their course and pollution have been contributing to an increasing degradation of the amount and quality of the Tejo river water, with serious consequences both for the environment, for the local, regional and even national economy. In addition, in addition to the various protected areas that have existed along the Tejo River since its entry into Portugal, with the Natural Park of the International Tejo, which has recently been recognized as a Biosphere Reserve by UNESCO, up to the mouth with the Natural Reserve of the Tejo Estuário do Tejo, in particular the Golegã area, in the Reserve of Paul do Boquilobo, which is also a reserve of the biosphere, in addition to these areas of environmental interest, there is a number of economic activities such as industry, fishing and tourism, which dynamize the local and regional economy with a huge potential of growth, so necessary for the valorisation of a territory in its almost total interior and with low population indices. however, economic growth must be sustainable and, for this, we cannot neglect the environmental issue, whether in Tejo or in other regions of the country. The CDS has been paying particular attention to this subject and has also proposed for the 11 business plan. the Commission, until December 2015, a visit to the river Tejo, precisely to assess the state of the river and its tributaries. This visit was welcomed by all parliamentary groups and, including, has already taken place at the beginning of this month, visits to which I had the opportunity and the pleasure to participate. This mediatism of the Tejo River has already had its positive effect: a set of industrial units has improved their system of treatment of effluents, anticipating planned investments and, according to local populations and authorities, a considerable reduction in pollution in the river has been recorded. But unfortunately, crimes against the environment are increasingly frequent and what happens is that environmental infringements are not often to be punished, either by the absence or by the nullity of the evidence. during these last months, of the various hearings and hearings that were held in 11. the Commission demonstrated the need for a greater link between the various bodies with responsibility for compliance with environmental legislation. The Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ), as a national authority for integrated pollution prevention and control and which ensures the management of the environmental laboratory network, may and should benefit from the complementarity of the elements of the GNR Nature and Environment Protection Service, the SEPNA ( Nature and Environment Protection Service ). These elements of SEPNA, which in their duties to ensure compliance with environmental legislation, as well as to investigate and suppress their illicit substances, also include the collection of water samples for further laboratory verification, are often confronted with the lack of means, including water collection kits for further analysis. If the occurrence occurs on a Friday night or on a weekend, for example, and the collection of water is not immediately done, the time factor allows for a dilution of the pollution, which will certainly allow the offender to be unpunished. For this reason, the CDS presents this draft resolution, which aims only to recommend to the Government a better link between the APA and the elements of the SEPNA of GNR, either through more training or physical means, so that there are no environmental infringements that pass through the lack of evidence or the nullity of this proof because the collection has not been properly carried out. We are confident that this is a plan of all—civil society, central administration and political power—and that will therefore be welcomed by all parliamentary groups. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u84	Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to recognise that combating environmental crimes has not always been effective. Combating environmental crime is a social responsibility of all, because it is not only aggression against the nature of the planet, but above all, it is damage to public health. Pollution, which makes places inappropriate for human use and occupation, as is often practiced, is an irreversible environmental crime for human life. Environmental crimes have not had a great impact on social communication and are therefore often hidden from citizens, and they are almost always orphaned by their cause. Polluir always negatively affects the health, well-being, balance and permanence of ecosystems, physical and biological stability of territories. Thus, it is necessary to do everything to prevent and combat environmental crime, penalize offenders, who often practice it only for wear and simply to get the easy profit at the expense of the common good. in this sense, the PS looks forward to voting in favour of this draft resolution, because it understands that all we have to do to prevent environmental crimes that are practised every day in our country. Before I finish, however, I would like to note that what the CDS is proposing today and to this government was what it was unable to implement when it had government responsibilities. The implementation of measures such as these was also what your parliamentary group was unable to recommend to your Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u86	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Increasing collective awareness of environmental problems, including the perception of the material limits of natural resources in the context of the current production model, must be echoed in the initiative and political action. On the one hand, in order to intervene more rigorously and effectively on the reality of crimes against the environment, it is necessary to know precisely the entities with environmental functions and competences, the material and human resources with which they operate, and the balance sheet that is carried out by the entities themselves on the perspective and articulation of their intervention on the ground. The submission of regular reports by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic on compliance with environmental legislation, including the number of ongoing criminal proceedings and the amount of effective and established counter-ordinations, as well as on the state of the environment, investment and degree of implementation of environmental policies in Portugal, would also be a valuable instrument that should be implemented. On the other hand, we cannot ignore what has been the political options of governments in this area and the consequences they have generated. And the truth is, in terms of the environment and conservation of nature, we have seen the destruction and weakening of the intervention capacity of the State and its own bodies in recent years, which has undoubtedly led to the degradation of the natural and environmental conditions of our country. The lack of material and human resources and the degradation of working conditions in various entities with environmental functions and competences has been repeatedly denounced, with absolutely shocking cases which have undeniably had perverse effects on the capacity to respond to environmental crime prevention and monitoring. For example, the scandalous number of nature monitors at the level of the Portuguese Environment Agency for monitoring actions is mentioned: 12 for the whole country. It is not a single case, other bodies complain about this same problem. The CFP advocates a development in harmony with nature, which is only possible through a clear break with the logic of destruction of public services, in the taste of great private interests. In environmental matters, it is clear that the emptying and impoverishment of state bodies leads to the greater willingness of large polluters to continue their polluting practice on the edge of the law, in severe damage to the populations and our natural heritage. The CFP advocates that only safeguard the role of the State in terms of environment and conservation of nature, with the appropriate financing of the supervisory and administration bodies and their allocation of the necessary technical and human resources, ensures that scientific and technological progress, in terms of the means of production and in terms of the environmental impacts of human activities, does not irreversibly compromise our future. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: contrary to what left-wing speeches have now wanted to believe, the PSD is a party that has always been showing great concern about environmental issues and violations of these rights. And so much so that, even in a period of crisis as the one that was overcome, in a period of great financial constraints, the PSD in the previous legislation, and in spite of the bankruptcy situation left by the left to us, has affected the State budget, contrary to what was said here by Mr Renato Sampaio, a word greater than that which is currently affecting the IGAMAOT (Inspection General of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning ). Therefore, contrary to what one wants to believe, reality and numbers do not correspond to the words that have been said here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u90	It's too bad I've never ruled! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u91	It was also the previous government that systemized the regime of environmental counter-ordination and, when it did this systematization, there was a worsening of the frames, both minimum and maximum, and there was also accountability of managers and administrators, as well as of natural persons, for the crimes and environmental counter-ordinations committed. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u92	And we must not forget that, in the visit to the Roof, both here and here, Mr. Inspectors and APA officials were clear in saying that there have never been so many counter-ordering processes. I am very sorry that a Parliamentary Group such as the CFP confuses establishment and supervision with procedural processing and the end of this process. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u93	I am very sorry that this is happening in this House, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, I wanted to make it clear, with regard to this environmental concern, that, despite this strengthening of supervision, the truth is that we give much more importance and we find a fundamental change of paradigms, so that there is great environmental awareness and that society itself suffers this change, so that it is not necessary to use supervision so much as to prevent it, so that its own actors have the notion of duty and the importance of maintaining our natural resources and with them, in a harmonious way, to develop their economic activities. Finally, I would like to say that, despite the resources we have, these funds have been affected. And we, despite having the notion that APA and SEPNA are bodies with the protection of different ministries, believe that, in a country like our own, resource park — as indeed with much property, reminded us of the Portuguese Association of Guards and Vigilants of Nature in Missive Towards Parliamentary Groups — it is important that this interconnection can be given, in order to maximize the use of the valences that each of these bodies can provide us and to avoid committing these crimes, especially at the end of the week. And, of course, we will follow the draft resolution of the CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u94	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block misses the proposal that the CDS brings today to the Assembly. Strange because over the four years in which it was government, little did to strengthen monitoring and combating environmental crime. But we are also surprised that there is already a link between APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) and SEPNA from GNR with regard to monitoring. Even with regard to training, such cooperation already exists. APA already forms SEPNA agents. And SEPNA, as an integral part of the GNR, is an environmental police that has the power to monitor, monitor, notify and investigate all violations of the law. We are also surprised that the draft resolution of the CDS leaves out the IGAMAOT (General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Planning of the Territory ), defined as the environmental criminal police body. Moreover, IGAMAOT has as its competence the control and inspection of activities with environmental impact, the evaluation and monitoring of the spatial planning and the counter-ordering system of the environment. The Left Block considers cooperation between the different entities essential for good monitoring and for the continuation of environmental crime proceedings. But this cooperation already has the entire legal device it needs. What has been lacking is political will and means to enforce the law. The text of the CDS initiative states that the situation of the Tejo River has become a nuance of some shortcomings, with regard to the monitoring and possible punishment of the offenders. If anything was clear in the disaster of Tejo's pollution over the past few years, it was this inquisition and this government defiance and the effects of the blind budget cuts and restrictions on the pollution and impunity of those who pollute. The CDS also states that the Portuguese Environment Agency is not on the ground at weekends and holidays, when many of the crimes and discharges occur. It is indeed serious that supervision is insufficient and predictable. But the CDS suggests a wrong path: that APA provide the SEPNA elements of the competences for functions that are APA and nature watchers. The problem is that the Portuguese Environment Agency has a body of supervision constituted, as has already been said, by only 12 nature watchers and the CDS has lived well with this over the past four years, when it had government responsibilities that would allow it to intervene on this case and correct this iniquity. Twelve nature watchers for all national territory! Let us be clear, it is necessary to hire more nature watchers, in number, with means and functional arrangements that are compatible with effective supervision. The CDS seems to be struggling with the responsibilities it brings from its recent government, the responsibilities it has in the need of environmental surveillance and monitoring, but it is not yet with this draft resolution that will be able to disguise those responsibilities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS Parliamentary Group brings us here a proposal that will help to strengthen surveillance and surveillance in Portugal, which has to do with a link between APA and SEPNA. We, The Greens, have already said here in another debate that we are deeply in favour of the articulation of entities and in the area of the environment is fundamental, as is already the case with others. Members mentioned this, the link between APA, SEPNA, IGAMAOT, nature watchers, among all those on the ground who must, in fact, articulate so that we can fulfil what we all want: better environmental standards and better environmental performances—as well as here the CDS reminds us, about the project it presents—particularly in what unfortunately we have seen in terms of gross attacks on the Tejo, a fundamental river for the preservation of essential ecosystems and that, as an international resource, tells us much about everything that comes from Spain, but also tells us a lot in terms of our responsibility for what we can preserve in our country and the obligation we have to fight for its quality. Now, what happens is that when the CDS approached this issue in another debate, saying that it would bring it to discussion through the presentation of a bill, the Greens then put a question which, for us, is fundamental. This may be a way of running away from what is essential and that the CDS does not want to assume, that it did not want to assume as a government and that it should have assumed, and that is what we must join forces in the sense that even if we can progressively implement it. What am I talking about? I am talking about the strengthening of staff, the strengthening of staff, which is essential for us to achieve the objectives that we want to achieve. The APA, when it came to the Commission, was very clear : « We need more personnel, more nature watchers are needed in Portugal ». In other words, these structures are undersized in terms of personnel and this problem is not solved « waving aside», Mrs Emília Cerqueira, or saying: « So now do you! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” No, ladies and gentlemen, we all have to join forces and make a choir in order that this matter can be achieved, even if it is gradually. And I don't think we should escape our responsibility. If the honourable Member comes to say to me this way: 'The institutions are linked, but the human resources are strengthened so that these powers can be exercised', very well ; but to put an entity to teach members of another entity, because it does not have staff to act at the end of the week, and others who do this work at the end of the week, Mrs Deputy, is in fact a little confusing thing and gives the idea that what the CDS wants is, in fact, not taking on what, in the perspective of the Greens, is fundamental, that it is, I repeat, strengthening staff. That is why the Greens are going to work and we have already said so here in the proposals that we have put forward in several debates on this matter. We do not want 'to hide our head in the sand', we want to assume what is fundamental. Yes, Mrs Deputies, we are going to strengthen the government so that this proposal for strengthening staff can be materialised, because that is the only way we can actually fight for a better environment. I have already said, Mrs. Member, several times, in several debates, that...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u98	You've wasted your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u99	... when we fire public officials, we are attacking public services, and an attack on public services is of course also an attack on the environment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u100	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once our agenda is exhausted, it is time to announce the agenda by Friday tomorrow. The meeting will begin from 10 a.m. to 15 a.m. with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which will be followed by the assessment of draft resolution No 246 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves reasoned opinion on the violation of the principle of subsidiarity by the proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments between Member States and third countries in the field of energy and repealing Decision No 994/2012 / EU(CAE). At the end of the debate, the vote will take place. I believe that Mr Renato Sampaio is still asking for the floor to intervene, that the Bureau has not noticed. Since there was no perception on the part of the Bureau in good time and since the previous point of our debate is already concluded, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether it is still essential to use the word or whether it can be renounced.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u101	Mr President, I wish to make an effective use of the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u102	in this case, you then have the floor, Mr, using still the time left for your intervention on the previous item on our agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is clear that the Bureau did not have the perception of my request to intervene, but I do not need to use the word during the remaining seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u104	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u105	Mr President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, it is not enough to throw money out of the problem. This can wash the conscience of the incompetent,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... but it is necessary to do more than that, it is necessary to make governance more effective, to decide well and in time. And the most obvious proof that the money released did not take effect and that things are not right is exactly this proposal brought here today by its partner of coalition in the previous government. At least the CDS was my fault and the PSD still doesn't see the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u107	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u108	I was going to say we could supply this originality, but the PSD also asks for the word. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, there is no time left. Ask the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u109	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau. It is only to require the Bureau to join a document that shows the values of the transfers affected in the State budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-14.u110	This will be done, Mrs. Member. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now at the end of our work. I would now like to appeal, on behalf of the President, to all the ladies and gentlemen. Members for what will be followed in the Hall of Nobre. within the framework of the 40-year commemorations of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, we will have the high time of giving diplomas to the honorary Members who were Members of the Constituent Assembly. I invite all of you and all of you. Members to participate at this high time in our Assembly of the Republic. Good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 58 minutes.]]
