ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Invited, our current session dedicated to the taking over of the President of the Republic is open. [[It was 9 hours.]] As you know, opening the sitting at this time is only a formality, since we will have to stop the work until we start the ceremony that will be followed, since I, the other members of the Bureau and the Members of the Bureau. Vice-Presidents must receive Mr. President of the elected Republic and Mr. President of the Republic still in office. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare adjourned. [[It was 9 hours and 1 minute.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Excelles, I declare reopening the Solemn Posse Session of the President of the Republic. [[It was 10 hours.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, will read the minutes of the General Settlement Assembly of the Election of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the text is as follows: « on the first day of February of two thousand and sixteen, for nine hours in the Ratton Palace, in Lisbon, the seat of the Constitutional Court, the General Settlement Assembly of the Election of the President of the Republic, set up in accordance with Article 98. the, paragraph 1, of Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November, in the wording given by Law No 13 -A / 98 of 26 February, by Judge Counsellor President, Joaquim José Coelho de Sousa Ribeiro, and by the Judges Counsellors Fernando Vaz Ventura, Pedro Manuel Pena Chancerelle de Machete, João Eduardo Cura Mariano Esteves and Ana Maria Guerra Martins, members of the 2. the Section of the Court, met for the purposes of Articles 105. o 110. o Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May. The work of John Jorge Reis Correia, author of law of 4. the Section of the Judicial Secretary of the Constitutional Court. They assisted the work of the Assembly in accordance with Article 106 ( 3 ). the President of Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, the candidate Edgar Freitas Gomes da Silva, José Ernesto Ribeiro Cartaxo, as well as Rui Pedro Costa Lopes, representing the candidate Marisa Isabel dos Santos Matias. Opened the session, the Assembly began the clearance, having verified that Braga, Guarda, Leiria and Azores, as well as Barcelona, Bern, Bogotá, Boston, Caracas, Dusseldorfia, Fortaleza, London, Newark, New York, Toronto, Washington and Zurich, were missing. It was stated that in the case of Washington and Newark, the non-existence of the act was due to the postponement of the vote, on the basis of the decision of the National Elections Commission, on the ground of untimely, being the respective clearance still under way. The Assembly decided to take steps to remove such shortcomings from the chairmen of the respective district clearance assemblies and from their consulates and from the competent departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. following, they were received, by facsimile or e-mail, the ata of Barcelona, Bern, Bogotá, Dusseldorfia, London, Toronto, Washington and Zurich. The Assembly continued its work with the analysis of the voting data that took place on national territory. The work was interrupted about 13 hours and resumed for the 15 hours of the same day, starting then the Assembly analysis of the intermediate clearance pads of the voting tables constituted abroad. It was found that there were discrepancies between the number of voters and that resulting from the sum of votes in the different candidates, white and null, at the top of the Harare, Luxembourg and Rio de Janeiro clearance assemblies. The Assembly took into account the corrections received in the meantime. The Assembly also found that, in some intermediate clearance assemblies, the overall sum of the results obtained at all geographically dispersed voting tables, but added to the same consulate, had not been made. It was the case of Curitiba, Stockholm, Johannesburg, Paris, São Paulo, Washington and Zurich. The Assembly suspended the work about eighteen hours and thirty minutes, scheduling its continuation for the day three February, for 11 hours, so that one day of interval could provide the missing data. on that day and time, the Assembly continued its activity with the presence in accordance with Article 106 ( 3 ). the Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76, of 3 May, of Rui Pedro Costa Lopes, as the representative of the candidate Marisa Isabel dos Santos Matias. Corrections received from Aveiro, Évora, Luxembourg, Rio de Janeiro and Zurich were submitted to the Assembly and by this Assembly. The Assembly found that, as a result of the investigations carried out by itself, the territorial and intermediate clearance tapes were received initially missing, with the exception of Caracas, having carried out the verification of those. The work stopped at about thirteen hours, with its re-initiation being extended for the sixteen hours, in order to allow the reception of the missing act, taking into account the time difference for its place of origin. Having resumed the work and received the minutes of the interim clearance of Caracas, it was decided that the results of five of the six voting tables in which the voting assembly of Caracas was opened had not been included the results of the vote held on Margarida Island as a result of the extradition of the thirty ballots sent by mail to the consulate. thus, with regard to the Margarida Island vote, it was only possible to carry out the verification of the total number of registered voters and voters, no longer to verify the number of votes obtained by each candidate and the number of blank and null votes. The general clearance operations were completed at eighteen hours and forty-five minutes. They have come forward in accordance with Article 108. that of Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, and according to the attached map, the following results: Total number of voters registered in the single circle: nine million, seven hundred and fifty-one thousand, three hundred and ninety-eight; Total number of voters in the single circle: four million, seven hundred and forty-four thousand, five hundred and ninety-seven; Total number of votes obtained by each candidate: Henrique José de Sousa Neto — thirty-nine thousand one hundred sixty-three; Antonio Manuel Seixas Sampaio da Nuvoa — one million, sixty-two thousand, one hundred and thirty-eight; Cândido Manuel Pereira Monteiro Ferreira — ten thousand six hundred and nine; Edgar Freitas Gomes da Silva — one hundred and eighty-three thousand and fifty-one; Jorge Manuel Pais Seara Rodrigues Sequeira — thirteen thousand nine hundred and fifty-four; Vitorino Francisco da Rocha and Silva — one hundred and fifty-two thousand three hundred and seventy-four; Marisa Isabel dos Santos Matias — four hundred and sixty-nine thousand eight hundred and fourteen; Maria de Belém Roseira Martins Coelho Henriques de Pina — one hundred and ninety-six thousand seven hundred and sixty-five; Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa — two million, four hundred and thirteen thousand nine hundred and fifty-six; Paul Alexandre Baptista Teixeira de Morais — one hundred thousand one hundred ninety one; Number of blank votes: fifty-eight thousand nine hundred and sixty-four; Number of empty votes: forty-three thousand five hundred and eighty-eight. It was thus found that, having obtained more than half of the validly expressed votes, it was elected in accordance with Article 126 ( 1 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, candidate Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa. After what in the Constitutional Court Chamber of Acts, by the President of the Court and the General Settlement Assembly were proclaimed the results of the general clearance and, in accordance with them, declared elected President of the Republic for the term to begin on nine March of two thousand and sixteen citizens Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa. The present Act has been washed away, which, after read and found to conform, will be signed by the members of the General Settlement Assembly. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-09.u3	Mr. President of the elected Republic will make the statement of commitment. [[On stand, the President of the elected Republic, before the other members of the Bureau and the assistance, standing, swore an oath on the original of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, reading the constitutional formula, of the following content: I swear by my honour to faithfully perform the functions in which I am invested and defend, fulfill and enforce the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.]] [[Then the Republican National Guard Band, posted in the Lost Steps, executed the national anthem.]] I now ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Idália Serão, to read the car of possession.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-09.u4	The auto possession is of the following content: « At nine days of March 2016, before the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, for the purpose of meeting in the Chamber of Sessions of the Palace of São Bento, solemnly held the President of the Portuguese Republic elected on 24 January 2016, Professor Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa. After reading by the Secretary of the Bureau to the General Assembly of the Election of the President of the Republic, Professor Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa gave solemn oaths as prescribed in Article 127 (3). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. To note that the present car of possession has been washed away, which will be signed by His Excellency the President of the elected Republic and the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[At the moment, the President of the elected Republic and the President of the Assembly of the Republic have signed the car of possession.]] [[Then the President of the Republic, after complimenting the President of the Perishing Republic, took the place to the right of the President of the Assembly of the Republic and the President of the Perishing Republic took the place to the left.]] [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-09.u5	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Permanent Republic, Your Majesty the King of Spain, Mr. President of the Republic of Mozambique, Mr. President of the Chamber of Representatives of the Kingdom of Morocco, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the European Commission, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Presidents of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Justice and other Superior Courts, former Presidents of the Republic and of the Assembly of the Republic, former Prime Ministers, Mrs and Mrss. Members, His Excellency the Reverend Apostolic Nuncio, Members of the Diplomatic Corps, Civil and Military Authorities, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Illustres Invited and Invited, Excellencies, My Ladies and Gentlemen : I welcome you to the Assembly of the Republic and to welcome you to this solemn session of the Posse Take of the President of the Republic. Today, on 9 March, a constitutional imperative, which is also a long parliamentary tradition: the ceremony of the President of the Republic's possession before the representative assembly of all Portuguese citizens. This is the founding moment of the presidency of whom the Republic represents, guarantees independence, unity of the State, the regular functioning of democratic institutions, and, by necessity, has the supreme command of the Armed Forces. I would like to underline the democratic civicism that guided the last presidential elections and the clear way in which the new President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, was elected. in his person, too, all the candidates present and who, with his civic courage, sought to increase Portuguese democracy. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]] As of today, your Excellency, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, is our President, he is the President of all of us, he is the President of all Portuguese. I wish you the greatest happiness in your current mandate. Your successes will be our successes — the successes of Portugal, the successes of the Portuguese. Allow me, moreover, a special greeting to the persistent President, Aníbal Cavaco Silva, for the spirit of public service which he has once again demonstrated in the office of President of the Republic. Ten years President of a strong post-April 25 party — the PSD — Prime Minister of Portugal, 10 years President of the Republic, Aníbal Cavaco Silva is no doubt a great political protagonist of our democracy. [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]] We all wish you and your family the greatest happiness. Mr President of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests : The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic 40 years ago and its features were precisely the active participation of the new President of the Republic, at the time of the Constituent Congress and a already well-known jurist. In 2016 we also celebrated the 40 years of the first truly democratic direct elections in Portugal. Today we are also here with Antonio Ramalho Eanes, precisely the first President elected following the approval of the 1976 Constitution. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and Greens applause.]] The Constitution was reviewed, but continues to confer important powers on the President of the Republic. Maybe we all know each other. to formal powers, the legitimacy of popular voting adds no less important informal powers: the power of the word and the power of influence. Let me remind you, in this regard, our dear Antonio de Almeida Santos,... [[General applause.]] ... that, 20 years ago, in the possession of our President Jorge Sampaio, he just remembered the intelligent way as another great President of democracy, Mário Soares, he was able to make « wide use of important implicit powers » by the President of the Republic. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] from this point of view, the first words and the first gestures of Your Excellency, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, are a good warning. A President of the Republic in tune with the country may become the promoter of the strategic convergences of which Portugal needs so much. A President of the Republic who can communicate with the country is a President who will be able to communicate with all sovereignty agencies, with all political parties and with all social partners. With all of them, anyway. Your Excellency, also in an election campaign, has proposed to contribute to heal the political wounds that have been added to the social and economic wounds of the adjustment period that the country has experienced in recent years. by personal and political characteristics that all recognize your Excellency, we can say, without exaggeration, that you really have now the historical responsibility of being the right man at the right time. This historic responsibility before us is also a huge opportunity: the opportunity to contribute to the national response to the strategic challenges that the European and international environment places us as a community; the opportunity to contribute to the national response to the structural problems that we face and that have not disappeared or resolved in the time of a legislature. In fact, the world we are in is facing serious challenges today. I am talking about global warming and demographic ageing, but also about the crisis of refugees and migration, freedom of movement and equal rights, sustainability of debts and architecture of the euro area, global terrorism and threats to security at European borders. Mr President of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests : The country needs to meet again. In democracy, ideological differences and alternative policies are normal and desirable, but it is precisely because we know the political differences that we should be able to distinguish from what is strategic and that should unite us. We must face, with social cohesion, the strategic challenges that block our collective growth, and this can only be achieved if we move to the same side. I am referring to the commitment to qualification and education, but also to investment policy, to support innovation and initiative, to the sustainability of health and social security systems, to incentives for birth and demographic renewal, to respect for the world of work or to the need to work again on Europe. Europe has been a factor of political stability and democratic consolidation for many years. Portugal knows this and has benefited from it. It is up to us all, regardless of our political families, not to allow the European Union to become a factor of political instability and an engine of democratic fragility. Many Europeans are beginning to wonder: is Europe so flexible in what is essential and so rigid in what is, in spite of everything, secondary? What is Europe, as rigorous as it is for it to comply with the budgetary rules, but so pleasing when, for example, fundamental principles such as freedom of the press, the right of asylum, the free movement of workers or non-discrimination based on nationality are involved? [[PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and Greens applause.]] President of the Republic, Parliament, the Government should strategically unite in the fight for a Europe of values, convergence and cohesion. Mr President of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr and Mr. Members: The right President at the right time will always be a President who fits, with autonomy and affirmation, into a new cycle of democratic political life. A time when everyone is called upon to find governance solutions and when no one is already confined solely to the role of the protest. A time which includes, but does not reduce to the right left-versus confrontation, which is unique to the alternatives of economic and social policy, but which embraces different combinations on different issues. A time of a more plural democracy and therefore more enriched. This new political reality requires a new culture of responsibility and a new attitude of availability. Firstly, responsibility for who governs and who supports governance, but also for the availability of oppositions to institutional loyalty and the strategic dialogue of democrats. The relationship between the Government and the Assembly of the Republic does not dispense with the role of the President. The President's action is not a summary of cooperation with these sovereign bodies, but it is not consolidated without it either. we expect strategic vision and independence in action from the President of all Portuguese. The purpose of the presidential term was well understood by the first President of 1. the Republic, Manuel de Arriaga. Here are his first words: « The President of the Republic has to stand above all, intangible to party passions, to the interests of political customers; he has to have only one aspiration: the good of the country». [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] Institutional loyalty, unrestricted adherence to democratic values and strategic dialogue is what the Portuguese expect of all: President, Government and Assembly of the Republic. Mr President of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests : I conclude by recalling that the next president will head the Portuguese state on the way of the 50th year of April 25. The next five years will be five years of a collective walk that is expected to be marked by a richer and more shared economy and a more just and inclusive society, with more and better employment. For that, I repeat, we must re-learn strategically rowing on the same side. Just 100 years ago, on March 9, 1916, Portugal entered World War I. This terrible planetary massacre in which many Portuguese fought and died in Europe and Africa. What brings us together here today is the same thing that had been joining us 100 years ago, in the face of difficulties, then certainly much greater: the sense of homeland and service to Portugal. Let us also serve as an example the constructive attitude of the Constituent Deputies and of the parties they represented. 40 years ago, starting from such different models of society, they knew how to converge essentially and leave as legacy the democratic development programme of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Forty years later it is much more what unites us than what divides us.So we know to be today again in line with the demands of our time. I therefore renew to you, Mr President of the Republic, the wish of the greatest happinesses in the exercise of the relevant functions which you are beginning today. For the sake of the Republic. For the sake of democracy. For the sake of Portugal. [[General applause, having the PS applauded standing.]] He will use the word, in constitutional terms, the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, to address a message to the Assembly of the Republic and to all Portuguese and Portuguese. You have the floor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-09.u6	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Professor Aníbal Cavaco Silva, Illustres High Foreign dignitaries present here, Prime Minister and government members, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court, Mr. Former Presidents of the Republic and of the Assembly of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, Portuguese: Portugal is the reason for being the solemn commitment I have just made. Here I was born, here I learned with my parents speaking the language that unites us and joins hundreds of millions all over the world. Here I brought up my children and I hope to see my grandchildren grow up. Here they have been created, and will always live with me, those feelings that we do not know to define, but that bind us to all the Portuguese. Love of the earth, longing, sweetness in speaking, communion in vibrating, generosity in inclusion, belief in miracles of Ourique, heroism in decisive moments. It is for Portugal, for every Portuguese and for every Portuguese that goes my first and decisive thought made of memory, of loyalty, of affection, of fidelity to a common destiny. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, in the person of Your Excellency, I welcome the legitimate and plural representation of the popular will expressed in the Assembly of the Republic and guarantee the undefectable institutional solidarity between the only two sovereign bodies founded on the universal and direct vote of all the people we are. Mr. Professor Aníbal Cavaco Silva, as he goes through, in an imperative exercise of memory, the long and singular career of service to the homeland of Your Excellency—with a decade in the head of government and a decade in the head of the state, which largely defined the Portugal we have—I understand to be strict duty of justice, regardless of the judgments that all political experience raises, to direct to Your Excellency a word of gratitude for the commitment he has always put in the defense of the national interest, of the view that was correct to him, sacrificing personal, academic and professional life in an unforgettable dedication to the common good. Well, there you go! [[PSD applause, standing members, CDS-PP and PS Members.]] Mr. General António Ramalho Eanes and Dr. Jorge Sampaio, the presence of Your Excellency is the symbol of the continuity and wealth of our Democracy, a remarkable lineage in which Mr. Dr. Mário Soares is also included. Democracy that is haunted by the presence of three illustrious foreign guests who honor us, by accepting the personal invitations I have made, corresponding to the essential coordinates of our foreign policy. of national origin, converted into European neighbourhood, brotherhood and complicity, in the person of His Majesty King Philip VI. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] of the desire to build a new future based on an eloquent and warm fraternity, and community of destiny, in the person of His Excellency President Filipe Nyusi. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and Os Verdes applause.]] of our constant commitment to a united and solidarity Europe, in the person of His Excellency President Jean-Claude Juncker. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] It adds to this dimension of State another, personal, in which respect joins, old ties and grateful friendship. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : He wrote a 19th-century Portuguese hero that «this Kingdom is the work of soldiers». Thus, since the foundation of Portugal, it has been attested in Zamora and recognized urbi et orrbi by the Boula Manifestis Probatum est, in the battles of continental expansion or defense and restoration of independence, as in the maritime epics or today in the missions of peace, or humanitarians, within and outside Europe with our always faithful Armed Forces in Portugal. So it was also, on 25 April 1974, with the young captains, redeeming freedom, announcing democracy, allowing the colonial empire to become a community of independent peoples and states, promising peace, development and justice for all. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]] As many — military and civil — have always done Portugal, as in particular to those, civilians and military, have built the democratic Republic here, we must be elected by the people in compliance with the Constitution. I'm saying, the Constitution. in this same Hemicycle, discussed and approved in the middle of a revolution and promulgated, almost 40 years ago, on 2 April 1976. I remember, with emotion, these unforgettable times, in which, young constituent, I joined my voice and my vote to so many more, coming from such diverse quadrants, having gone along such varied paths, having added years or even decades of struggle, to the fight of the moment so that the constitution that rules us could be born and that was reviewed and cherished for new eras. For this reason, the Basic Law continues to be our common denominator: everyone, at some point, contributed to at least a part of its content. Defend it, fulfill it and do it is the duty of the President of the Republic. And it would always be, even if you voted on it, to have followed some of its main revisions and to have taught it over 40 years, they would not be more responsible for those who have just taken office before you. The President of the Republic will therefore be a permanent and scrupulous guardian of the Constitution and its values, which, after all, are the values of the nation that we are proud to be. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] The value of respect for the dignity of the human person, first of all, of people of flesh and bone, who have the right to be free, but who have the same right to a society in which there are not, dramatically persistently, two million poor, more than half a million at risk of poverty, and still shocking differences between groups, regions and social classes. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] Safeguarding life, physical and spiritual integrity, freedom of thought, belief, expression and pluralism of opinion and organization is a duty of all of us. As it is to fight for more social justice, which implies effective creation of wealth, but does not satisfy itself with contemplation of numbers and wants to reach people and their rights and duties. The matrix values of the Constitution are, in the same way, those of the national identity, made of roots on our land and sea, but of universal vocation, a platform that we constitute between continents and, above all, between cultures and civilizations. Roots in this land and in this sea, which form a true archipelago with three vertices — continent, Azores and Madeira — and covers the ocean that made us and makes us great. We can and must continue to take the sea as a national priority, a priority dear to your Excellency. Professor Aníbal Cavaco Silva. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] Priority born of a geostrategy and, above all, a universal vocation—as António Lobo Antunes wrote: «If my land is small, I want to die in the sea». Universal vocation of a nation divided by the five continents, in which more than half of us, between nationals and descendants, live to create "Portuguese" outside our physical territory, but within our spiritual territory. Universal vocation, in the embrace that binds us to the fraternal peoples, who share our language, in an open and inclusive community. Universal vocation, in which history joins the geography and in which we are Europeans, at the point of departure and in the firm will to participate in European unity, is enriched with transatlantic beings and, more than that, we can approach the most distinct nations and words and economies and societies, without xenophobia, without intolerance, without complexes of false superiority or incomprehensible inferiority. In short, national identity made of soil and blood, of bet on language, education, science, culture, the ability to know how to combine the future with the past, without fear of facing the present. An identity lived in a state of democratic, representative law, but also participatory and referendum, plural and fraternal, respecting the popular sovereignty, the separation and conjugation of powers, the independence of justice, the political and legislative autonomy of the Azores and Madeira and the administrative autonomy of the local power. Jealous in the protection of personal and political freedoms, but bet on asserting economic, social and cultural rights. And, therefore, the social rule of law in which the creativity of the private initiative is combined with the relevant social sector and always bear in mind that the economic power must be subordinated to the political power and not that it serves as an instrument of that. In other words, democratic political power should not prevent the dynamism and pluralism of a civil society — traditionally so weak among us — in its excesses, but it cannot resign itself from its defining role of rules, rector of injustices, even greater levels of economic, social and cultural well-being, in particular, for those who the invisible hand has erased, sub-alternized or marginalized. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] It is within the framework of this Constitution—that, like all human work, it is not untouchable, but that it requires broad consensus to be restored, that one, rather than divide—which we have in the front, times and challenges difficult to overcome. We must be able to combine the struggle, at the universal level, with the same values that govern us — the dignity of the person, peace, justice, freedom, development, intergenerational equity or appreciation of the environment — with the defence of reform of institutions that become notoriously inadequate or inadequate. We must be faithful to our sovereign commitments — especially those that correspond to the permanent coordinates of our foreign policy, such as the European Union, the CPLP and the Atlantic Alliance — and never lose sight that, as well as them, there are signs of calling for reflections of substance, in a form or in a spirit of solidarity, in a very different context from those who have witnessed their most significant changes. The challenges of refugees in Europe, of non-economic and financial discrimination in the CPLP and the Atlantic Alliance borders are just three examples, among many, of pressing issues, even if they are uncomfortable. We have to get out of the climate of crisis, in which we have almost always lived since the beginning of the century, affirming our own love, our wisdom, endurance, experience, the notion of fundamental. We must go further, with realism but vision of the future, in the capacity and quality of our education and science, but also of demography, health, social security, justice and public administration and the political system itself, and their constant moralization and credibility, in particular by combating corruption, customerism and nepotism. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] We must not forget, therefore, between us and Europe to which we belong, that, without rigor and financial transparency, the risk of returning or perpetuating crises is painfully greater, but also that unaccompanied healthy finances of growth and employment can mean impoverishment and aggravated injustices and social conflicts. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] We must heal wounds of these so long years of sacrifice, in the weakening of the social fabric, in the loss of regime consensus, in the division between political hemispheres. Everything undesirable, precisely in years when it is urgent to re-create convergences, rediscover dialogues, redeploy understandings, rebuild reasons for hope. We must strengthen the sense of belonging to a country, which is the same for all and before which there is only — or must be — Portuguese of equal dignity and status. Are the challenges difficult, complex, surrounded by incognito the challenges evoked? Are they forced to work reinforced in the face of an uncertain world, a Europe with new tensions in internal and external solidarity, public finances not to entail fears, financial system that prevents it from remedying and that it does not create ostracisms or dependencies contrary to national interest, policy to test new formulas, demand for clearer, faster and more equitable responses? No doubt. After the transition from the revolution to constitutionalism, the stabilization of party democracy, European accession and the adoption of the euro, the high expectations of the turn of the century and some frustrations, however, experienced, as well as the self-sufficient response of the Portuguese, await us five years of search for unity, peace, strengthened national cohesion, complex meeting between democracy and strategic internationalization, within and outside borders, and between growth, employment and social justice, on the one hand, and financial viability, on the other hand, of creating consonances in social and political systems, of unceasing building a friendly and solidarity community. Never losing faith in Portugal and in our secular ability to overcome crises. I never believe in democracy. Never letting hope die. Never forgetting that what unites us is much more important and lasting than what divides us. Persisting when the temptation is to give up. Making incomprehensions in redoubled mood. By preferring the small gestures that approach the great proclamations that go away. Honestly. With patience. With perseverance. With temperance. With courage. With humility. The fifth President of the Republic who is freely elected in democracy and who welcomes the candidates, here present, who have fought the elections of 24 January. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]] And because, freely elected by popular vote, President of all without exception. A President who is neither in favour nor against anyone. This will be politically, from the beginning to the end of its term of office. But socially, in favour of the young person who wants to exercise his qualifications and, ultimately, seeks employment. the woman who hopes to see her role more recognized in a world still so unequal. the pensioner or retired who dreamed, 30 or 40 years ago, of a 25 April that does not correspond to his current horizon of life. from the scientist looking for incentives always postponed. the farmer, the trader, the industrial, who, day by day, survives the world of obstacles surrounding it. the worker on behalf of another or independent person, who pays the taxes that are very supportive of the systems that legitimately protect those who suffer most in our social state. of the new and bold talent that is changing our society and our economy. of the IPSS, of mercy, of the institution closest to the people—in the Autonomous Regions and in the authorities—that takes care of many, of whom no one else can take better care of. of which, in the still distant interior, in the islands, sometimes forgotten, in the communities that inhabit the world, is permanently a portrait of our tenacity as a Nation. Of all these and many more, the President of the Republic is the President of all. Without easy promises, or programs you know cannot fulfill, but with constant determination, assuming, in full, its powers and duties. Without wanting to be more than the Constitution allows, without accepting to be less than the Constitution imposes. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] A public prosecutor's servant. That the same is to say, a servant of this country of almost nine centuries. The country that asks us at every step, demanding much more and much better. But the answer comes from one of our biggest, Miguel Torga, who wrote in 1987, goes to 30 years: « The difficult thing for every Portuguese is not to be; it is to understand. We never knew how to look cold in the mirror of life. Passion takes away our sight. from there the kind of obscure innocence with which we act in history. Power and worth, we are not always aware of what we can and are worth. We provincially hypertrophy the abilities of others and severely minimize our abilities, without even remembering that a creature does not lend only when it ceases to be restless. And we are the very incarnate concern. It was she who made us transcend all the space limits and know all the human longitudes(... ) We are not a dead people, not even exhausted. We also have a great role to play within the nations, like the most ecumenical of all. The world today does not need our insufficient technique, our precarious industry or our scarce raw materials. It needs our culture and our vocation to embrace it cordially, as if it were the natural heritage of all men. Do not keep on seeking. ” This portrait of Miguel Torga can sound very far, when they multiply today, in science, technique, in the creation of wealth, so many examples of Portuguese invention, between us or on the edge of the universe. And yet Torga saw the essential. The essential thing is that we continue to minimize what we value and, however, we are worth much more than we sometimes think or say. The essential thing is that our genius—which distinguishes us from others—is the indomitable creative concern that presides over our ecumenical vocation, embracing the whole world. She did us the way we are. Big ones in the past. Big in the future. So here we are. So here I am. For Portugal of all time! [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-09.u7	The session is closed. [[It was 10 hours and 55 minutes.]]
