ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. We will begin the session with the assessment of petition No 540 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Presented by Helena Pinto and others, requesting that those responsible for the practice / tradition « cat burning» be punished and the tradition be abolished, in general, with Bill No. 361 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, expressly prohibiting practices that are seriously harmful to the physical integrity of animals, such as "cat burning" and shooting at the flight of captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as target (NAP). For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the petitioners of today's initiative which gives rise to public indignation about a practice that seriously violates the rights of animals, the « cat burning ». We have no doubt — we hope we are not mistaken — that all the representatives of this House elected by the citizens will agree with the petitioners, expressly entering into the law the prohibition of these behaviours. But there are other practices that perpetuate ongoing attacks on the physical integrity of animals. The practice of flying shots, commonly referred to as « dove shots », despite being prohibited in a number of countries such as England, France or Luxembourg, is still considered a sport in Portugal. This practice consists of the release of captive pigeons so that participants can shoot the target, the pigeon that is flying, with the only goal of killing. The person who kills more pigeons is the winner. To clarify what the shooting is on the flight, I make a very brief and enlightening summary: birds created in captivity are transported for hundreds or thousands of miles to the place of the event and confined days to cages without entry of light and lack of food and water; moments before the event are removed the rear feathers for their flight to be difficult; the first moment these birds know freedom is also the time in which their life is taken away. Most of the animals do not have immediate death, becoming dying, with internal bleeding and various injuries, until the moment they finally die, taking this as long as it takes. Up to 5000 animals are killed for fun of a dozen people. This is unjustified violence against animals that do not correspond to the nobility and physical and mental health associated with sports practice. These practices are the expression of barbarism and a total disregard for the physical integrity of animals and, despite their evident bestiality, due either to a legal omission or to the poor will of the supervisory or judicial authorities, are the reality that we can and must change today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I already told the poet that it was urgent to call love and destroy hatred and cruelty, that it was urgent to summon joy and sow evenings of hope!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u4	Let these days be a moment of reflection on how we relate to others and that on Kings Day together we can raise the condition of human dignity. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u5	Mr José Silvano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the discussion of this petition two essential principles must be made clear: there is no justification for the abuse of animals, and those who violate the law must be punished. These principles, which are universal, apply in the discussion of this petition clearly and unequivocally. It is also important to say that one and a half years after this has happened, it has been resolved through its own legislation, particularly with the application of Law No 69 / 2014 and has been resolved with appropriate legislation, with justice and with good sense, which is essential in these discussions. The courts functioned and the Vila Flor court gave the appropriate sentence in this case, condemning the defendants in this case. The law solved the problem of the abolition of tradition, because Law No. 69 / 2014, updated and made more modern by all parliamentary groups still recently and approved here yesterday, has sufficient and balanced principles to resolve and deal with the abolition of this tradition. Just apply the law, no special measures are needed in this House. I refer to the common sense, Mr President, because the local authorities, particularly the City Hall of Vila Flor, the parish board and the population, in the course of their time, have resolved this problem with good sense. In 2015, the tradition of « cat burning» on the night of Saint John was no longer made with cats but, yes, it was carried out at the burning of the wood, which originated in tradition, thus giving an example that law, justice and good sense sometimes solve many of these problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u7	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, Portugal has taken an important step here in this House to recognize that animals are not things and that, as such, they have their own legal status which materialises, above all, in a set of powers/ duties which impose on people who relate to them and, in particular, on their legal owners. For the Left Block, this recognition must have a privileged expression in an extended practice of eradicating ill-treatment against animals which certainly includes not only an educational dimension, an information and social awareness dimension but also a criminal policy aspect. Law No. 69 / 2014 was an important contribution in this regard when it added a new title on abuse of pets to the Penal Code. But both the courts, both the legal community in general, and the animal welfare associations have highlighted the need to fine-tune and deepen the regime of Law No 69 / 2014. That this House did not, yesterday, decide to associate with the approval of the new legal status of animals a more advanced regime for the sanctioning of ill-treatment to animals only shows that this cause will continue to demand social and political mobilization, and the Left Block will not lack that mobilization.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u10	Caricature the claim to take new and necessary steps in the criminalization of ill-treatment to animals as a city frivolity, opposing it as a supposed genuineness of rural Portugal, is little more than a disguise of obedience to the agenda of powerful corporate lobbies in favor of a minimalism in this matter that legitimate practices of serious injury to animal welfare, which is socially demanding. Conservativeism has long used this decoy between the alleged frivolity of the urban and the alleged authenticity of the rural. Nor must respect traditions be equal complacency for barbaric acts—such as roasting a living cat in a clay pot— nor is repudiation of this an avenue of futility. Combating animal abuse is a requirement of civilization—that's all! And, contrary to what conservatives want, we do this fight not to break us, because what must break is not the fight against ill-treatment, it is the bad-treatment themselves. It is in the name of this greater civilization that I affirm here the consonance of the Left Block with the general meaning of this petition and with the draft law that the NAP presents in this regard. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u11	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in a day that follows a happy day — it was the day when we adopted and took a civilizational step of importance, since we were empowering an animal-specific legal status, giving a translation to that which is also a trend that has been verified and strengthened internationally — as Mr. José Manuel Pureza stressed, it was also the day when we lost the opportunity to strengthen or at least correct the steps that we did not fully correct when we adopted and then updated the sanctions regime one or two years ago. It is true that the petition that is before us today—and I greet the petitioners for having evidenced the problem, for having denounced and for having triggered the various instruments of the rule of law to resolve it, either at parliamentary level, mobilising the legislator for intervention, either at judicial level, ensuring compliance with the law and that the courts deal with this matter—is, in spite of everything, covered by the law and, fortunately, the penal rules were sufficient to answer the problem. But this does not mean that an important dimension, the pedagogical, which has already been evidenced today, disappears. Therefore, the initiative that the NAP associates to this debate also seems relevant to us, in that it adds to the list of prohibited behaviours in Law No 92 / 95 specifically this case, this particular tradition, which we effectively want to repudiate and note that it is not compatible with the general feeling that the community today is associated with this matter. If anything, this petition shows that, for many steps we have taken in recent years, there is still, indeed, much work to be done, there is still a lot of awareness to be set up and there are still many citizens who must continue to be involved in this issue. I believe that, despite the outcome of this situation—and I would not say that this is a positive outcome, because, obviously, a sentence or a criminal outcome is never positive, it is positive to prevent/prevent the occurrence of criminal offences—, at least this is a case where law has worked and the legislative amendment has given effect to the community's will in a legal sense. Let us not lose sight of the fact that there is still much to be done and this step, this commitment of the citizens, in this matter must be valued, especially on a day when we can do so soon after we have taken a relevant step, but this does not mean we have to lower our arms. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I give a word of appreciation to the Members. Petitioners, who very well alerted to this practice that the CDS, obviously repudiation, and could not stop saying here. The CDS, as it is known, is idle and respectful of all traditions, but traditions cannot be made at the expense of animals or people. Traditions must be fulfilled, yes, sir, but often they must be recreated figuratively so that they can continue to be fulfilled. Traditions are good, they are important and it is important that we continue to take them forward, but sometimes they need to be made in a figurative way so that situations such as the « cat burning», which has also been spoken in social communication, do not happen again. And after the news came out, apparently last year, everything went well and there was again the sacrifice of a cat. The question in particular was dealt with in the courts, and very well, and ended with a condemnation. As regards this matter, therefore, the House must not take a decision. What the House should see right now is whether there is sufficient legislation that involves this type of practice. And, in our view, the criminal law, which was passed during the previous legislation, already blocks this type of practice, as it has proved, in fact, from the condemnation that the people who committed this type of abuse against animals suffered. The "cat burn" cannot obviously be set up in our legal order and our legal order does not tolerate it, as proved by the sentence we have seen. What matters is that the authorities monitor and manage to predict this kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u16	That is what happened last year and we hope that it will happen again, that the "cat burn" never repeats again. Wanting to do so, they recreate tradition, but do not do it at the expense of animals suffering from it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: People's awareness and concern about animal abuse has grown. The high number of subscribers to this petition alone is a good illustration of the awareness and concern that people express with regard to animal welfare and the protection of their rights, vehemently repudiating the ill-treatment to which many animals are subject. In fact, existing legislation already provides for the conditions for intervention in cases of ill-treatment of pet animals, which are the responsibility of the judicial authorities, and not the Assembly of the Republic, to determine the responsibilities. According to information to the public, there is already a judicial decision concerning the situation that this petition raises. Despite this, we once again want to reaffirm the CFP's perspective that these issues cannot be resolved only with punitive or criminal responses. More than punishing these behaviors, it is important to prevent them, and this requires a wider response than creating crimes or increasing criminal frameworks. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u19	It is important to invest in the awareness and awareness of populations, in the education of young people in respect of animals, so that behaviors that do not respect animal welfare can be effectively abandoned. It is necessary to invest in preventive actions to prevent animals being abused. There has been a long time since the CFP has been putting the need to carry out and wager in the prevention of animal abuse. And on the part of the CFP, much attention will continue to be paid to the subjects which show animal suffering, in the sense of mitigating or avoiding, as well as the promotion of animal welfare. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u20	The joint debate on petition No 540 / XII is thus concluded ( 4 ). ( a ) and generally draft law No 361 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PAN). We moved on to the debate of petition No 106 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Presented by the Platform for Defence of Public Water Services, Sanitation and Waste Management, in defense of those public services, together with draft resolution No 584 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Guarantees the right to water and sanitation ( The Greens) and generally with the projects of lein.o 358 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection of individual and common water rights ( PCP ) and 335 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection of individual and common water rights ( establishes the fundamental right to water and sanitation and provisions for the protection of that right, as well as the right to water as an environment and the rights common to water and public property of water as a resource and its management in the collective interest, hierarching the use of water and preventing the privatization and marketing of water services, public infrastructure and the water domain ( BE). To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start this intervention by greeting all the subscribers and dynamizers of the petition called « In defense of public services of water, sanitation and waste», which brought to the Assembly of the Republic once again the issue of water, sanitation and waste and the need to defend its public management. I therefore welcome the petitioners present to attend this debate. [[PCP applause.]] We follow the concerns and demands that this petition brings us. First of all, the reversal of the privatisation of EGF ( General Development Company ). The reality is demonstrating that privatization is not a solution. Public service is deteriorating in its quality. And let us see: as soon as the private shareholder arrived at EGF, e.g. in the Amarsul system, the revenues obtained during public management were soon distributed by the private. It is well seen that concern is not public management but, yes, profit and profit accumulation at the expense of the public service. Secondly, we also defend, as claimed in this petition, the reversal of the process of fusion of multi-municipal water and sanitation systems. We defend that the model enables the creation of public-public partnerships and rejects any prospect of aggregation of networks down, until we already know that the objective, next, is that of its verticalization and subsequent privatization. Thirdly, we follow the concerns and the need to ensure affordable tariffs, workers' rights, as well as the enhancement of municipal competences. We took advantage of this debate and this petition to bring here today, to the Assembly of the Republic, a legislative initiative of citizens, discussed two years ago and which had more than 43 000 signatures, this initiative which included the mobilization and participation of populations and of various entities. We have brought these initiatives here because we believe that the issues relating to public water management and sanitation are fundamental, as is essential to prevent any attempt, any prospect of privatization of these important public services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u22	To present the bill of BE, Mr. Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the petitioners who provide today's debate and who bring back the issue of privatization of waste, the water sector strategy and the need for a change in direction to what was the policy of the previous government. On 28 February 2013 he entered the Assembly of the Republic a legislative initiative of citizens, mentioned earlier by Mrs Paula Santos, signed by 43 600 people, citizens and citizens, and was voted in October 2014, having recorded the favourable votes of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Green Party. however, this initiative was plunged by the old majority, with the votes against the PSD and the CDS, therefore being without effect. This initiative began with the Water Campaign, which involved the Public Water Association, the CGTP and numerous organizations of the social movement, and the Left Block took it back in its precise terms to include it in this debate today, because it is, to evaluate by the 2014 vote, a viable proposal, which today could pick up the votes necessary for its approval in the Assembly of the Republic. And what the Left Block presents is no more than precise transcription of the terms in which this legislative initiative was presented in 2013. The legislative context has changed, and today we should not have a policy geared towards privatization and granting large financial groups of private exploitation of the water public domain and public water services, to promote the profitability of water-marketing businesses and to relieve the State's duties in defending citizens' rights. This bill reaffirms these rights, with emphasis on the fundamental right to domestic water and sanitation, and reorient water policy for the equitable use of water rights, for management oriented towards the satisfaction of the greatest human need, security, common interest, equity of benefits, ecological adequacy and long-term conservation of resources. The most important legal consequences of this project are the strengthening of the universal use of the right to water and sanitation, the triggering of the process of return of water services concessions and exclusive water government concessions to public entities that cannot be privatized, the cessation of the privatization of the public authority on water resources, in particular by preventing its delegation to businesses, and the administration of water resources and water services as a common condominium, with the impediment of making water water and public domain into a marketable commodity and in speculative businesses with water. If in 2014 there was no majority in this Parliament that was necessary to make these amendments and change the direction of public policy in the water sector, today we have the opportunity — and we also owe it to the initiative taken by the petitioners — of, with the majority formed today in this Parliament, with the same political forces that gave their vote in favour of this citizen legislative initiative in 2013, change the direction, change the course and defend public water. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u24	Mr Domingos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing petition No 106 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), the initiative of the Platform for Defence of Public Water Services, Sanitation and Waste Management, in defense of the public services of this sector. Together with this petition, we discussed the projects of lein.os 358 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), of the PCP, and 335 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), BE, and draft resolution No 584 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a) of The Greens. All these initiatives have in common the defence of public water services, sanitation and solid waste. in this sense, I take advantage to greet, especially, the petitioners of the Platform in Defense of Public Services of Water, Sanitation and Waste Management for the relevance of the theme and also for the work developed. The petition consists of the following: a reversal of the privatisation of EGF; a reversal of the process of merging multi-municipal water and sanitation systems; a strengthening and valuing of municipal competences; and support for municipalities in the renegotiation and possible remunicipalization of concessions. in this sense, and as regards the object of the petition, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is essentially in accordance with these concerns. From that point of view, because the Government is well aware of its policy for the management of access to water consumption and sanitation and waste services, by defending the public service of this sector, where it defines equal principles at national level for the production of a social water tariff, taking into account the household aggregates of lower incomes and numerous families. It aims to set up and make effective a guarantee of the minimum services considered essential to human dignity, allowing access to certain basic services or of general interest, such as water, sanitation, waste collection, among others. The Government has a policy for the sector, through the national commitment to the sustainability of public water services. It stresses the need for greater harmonisation of the mechanisms guaranteeing the economic accessibility of the minimum services considered essential to human dignity and special tariffs with the intervention of multi-municipal authorities and managers. Who no longer remembers the proposed State Budget Bill for 2017, recently approved in this House, which in its Article 55. is it going to meet this commitment by providing for a legislative authorization under the social tariff for the water sector, so that access to these services is not compromised or questioned? As regards the exploitation of system management, the Government initiative combines respect for the historical background and legal competences of local authorities with the response to all constraints affecting the sector, as well as the preparation for the challenges faced by the sector. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is calm with the policy for the water, sanitation and solid waste sector, because the government's political orientation gives us the guarantee of the removal of the privatization threat from the sector, so appropriate to the former PSD/CDS Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u26	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u27	And, as the petition points out, it is necessary to guide and pay attention to the privatisation of the EGF, which can compromise an affordable tariff for all families.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u28	Mr Manuel Frexes spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Water is undoubtedly an essential asset to life. To ensure accessibility to drinking water is today enshrined by the United Nations as a fundamental human right for the full enjoyment of life and other human rights. We therefore understand the initiatives discussed here, especially the petition submitted under the theme "In defence of public services of water, sanitation and waste", which we welcome and whose act of citizenship we note. Portugal was one of the most developed countries in the last 20 years in the area of the urban water cycle, and today it has a remarkable coverage of these services: 95 % of the population is served by water supply systems and about 80 % of the population is served by sanitation systems, and the quality of water for human consumption today records the value of 99 % safe water and good quality in the consumer tap. After an investment of more than EUR 10 billion, we can take pride in the results we have achieved and be at the level of the most advanced countries in the European Union. in recent years, a remarkable reform has been carried out in the upper water sector, which has solved the problem of economic and financial sustainability of the sector, promoted tariff equity between interior and coast... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u30	...and he got the downhill — don't worry! — the prices of water and sanitation to around 70 % of the municipalities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u31	This reform has also deserved the praise of the European Union. The regrettable reversal of this reform, with the breakdown of the already balanced and consolidated systems, called into question the economic and financial sustainability of the sector, created pressure on tariffs, increased rates, passing the taxpayer for the first time to pay what was previously exclusively borne by the consumer. It is not, therefore, by chance, that today is again on the agenda to raise the price of water. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u32	however, where there are still some very serious problems, especially in the areas of efficiency and equity, it is at low water level. I can mention a number of difficulties here. Firstly, strong fragmentation and heterogeneity of operators; secondly, huge disparities in tariffs in the various regions of the country; and thirdly, high water losses, which average 40 % of the water provided. In fact, every day, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if you waste a huge river of water in Portugal. To solve this problem, which is primarily for municipalities, it is necessary to support investment and, at the same time, to promote inter-municipal cooperation and system aggregation. As for the way of management, it is up to each of the municipalities to decide in each case, because we very much value the constitutional principle of municipal autonomy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u33	In any event, we believe that the essential factor for these systems to work well is to ensure their economic and financial and social sustainability. This is because there is nothing more harmful to the consumer than the poor management that questions the quality and subsistence of public services. In fact, we can claim that systems must be made public. But what's it worth if they don't work? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u35	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that access to water and sanitation, as human rights, implies good governance, which is much more than mere management, and requires the defence of its sustainability, without prejudice and with the awareness that we share a common good, of all citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u36	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the signatories of the petition here under discussion, a petition with which we disagree, because it is based on an ideological question, with which we do not agree and do not defend: everything that is private is harmful and everything that is public has only virtualities. That is to say, it is the Marxist principle of nationalizations and of the State monopoly that was put into practice by the Soviet bloc during the early and mid-20th century,... [[Protests and laughter of PS, BE and PCP.]] ...and, say it, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, with a terrible result!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u38	You need to study more, sir! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u39	I'm asking the ladies. Members who create conditions for the speaker to continue. [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u40	Mr President, the Soviet pendant of the left benches continues to be noted. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u41	Mr President, I ask you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u42	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the division is not made by the rule and frame. There's good and bad private, there's good and bad public. [[One shot in the water!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u43	Also the legislative initiatives that the radical left parties bring to us today are no more than a recycling of initiatives that they have already presented in the previous legislature and which have been rejected with the votes against the CDS, the PSD, and also the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS has no ideological prejudices about this matter of water, sanitation and waste. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u44	That's a parody! [[Rice from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u45	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u46	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create the conditions for your intervention. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u47	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't get confused, prejudices are on this side! Don't be confused! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u48	Water and sanitation are public goods, resources are public, systems ownership is public and the right to services is public, so there is no disagreement. Another totally different thing is management. The State must guarantee the service, but it does not have to provide it. We understand that management can and should often be granted. And granting is not privatising,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u49	Yeah, no! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u50	... how they want us to believe the PCP and the Left Block in a demagogic way. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u51	And this too was always the understanding of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u52	There's time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u53	The Socialist Party, in 2013, in the debate that then took place on these matters in this House, stated, and I quote : « As regards ensuring private companies' access to economic activities for public water supply, waste water sanitation and management of urban solid waste, we consider it excessive, until private management practices do not necessarily affect the public interest ». We fully agree with these statements by the Socialist Party. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u54	We will now see if the Socialist Party, consistently, will maintain its position or, in this matter too, will be commanded by the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party against its own DNA. We, CDS-PP, maintain our coherence, keep what we always believed to be better for the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u55	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to greet the more than 6500 petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic in defence of public services for water, sanitation and waste. It is a matter for which the Greens have given particular attention in their parliamentary work and therefore we represent a draft resolution which guarantees the right to water and sanitation. I was very pleased to say to the Member of the CDS-PP that, in particular, this Green draft is a re-presentation. In fact, it was presented in the past legislature because we considered this matter very seriously, in the face of the threat of water privatization made by the previous government. Moreover, privatization even came to be announced, in all words, by then Minister of Finance, Victor Gaspar, but then they were softening the thing and changed to the logic of concessions. Mr. CDS-PP said concessions are not privatisations. Oh, no! Delivering to the logic of the private, to private management, for decades,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... put the supply and sanitation in the hands of privates in a profit logic and not service to the population—they can play with words as they wish—... [[Protests by PSD Deputies Duarte Filipe Marques and CDS-PP Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] ... is to hand them over to the private and water is not a commodity, it is a right of the people. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] The Member of the CDS-PP has expressed a huge ideological prejudice here, even stating that he does not have it. That's because, everything that's public, you think it's bad, and everything that's private, you think it's good! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u57	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u58	That is why you fought until you can no longer, for the degradation of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u59	That's it now! Now it's like this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u60	What they wanted, at any time, was that this degradation of this place to what, for you, is a fundamental logic: bad public service, deliver it to the private and let us do business. The environment, for you, was a business market. It was only in this logic that environmental matters were seen. Now, in order to ensure consistency with past legislation, this project, which guarantees the right of people to water and sanitation, was justly cast with the votes of the PSD and the CDS, but had the favorable votes of the PS, the PCP, the BE, and the Greens. And given the correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic today, what The Greens are believing is that this project will be approved. [[Let's see!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u61	And what does this project say? Defend public water management! This project says that any changes introduced in water management models should not jeopardise the competence of authorities, public management, or guarantee the universal access of populations to water supply and sanitation systems. Water management models should take into account the preservation of this resource.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u62	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. Water management models should also ensure that systems are efficient and allow the cost of water to be as low as possible, reflecting the lowest possible rate. Finally, it is an example of the many items that Greens today defend for the law and defense of public water management. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u64	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that in this debate it was clear who is defending the private interests and who is concerned about the public interests and the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u67	PSD and CDS insist, consistent with the positions they have taken, to defend the interests of private entities, more profits, systematically harming populations. They are going to heighten a reform that has been carried out against the opinion of the authorities, which has been done against the opinion of the workers, which has been done against the opinion of the people. And the question that arises today in this debate, in which there has been a change in the composition and correlation of political forces, is whether, indeed, the PS will maintain its position and will...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u68	Oh, that's it! Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u69	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u70	... here in the Assembly of the Republic, make public management of water and sanitation possible, as you did when voting on the citizens' legislative initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u71	Mrs. Emília Santos has the floor to report to us on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Parliamentary assessment No 28 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 82 / 2016 of 28 November, which determines the decentralization, partial and temporary, of the competences of the transport authority, of the State to the Metropolitan Area of Porto, relating to the public transport service of passengers operated by the Collective Transport Society of Porto, SA ( STCP ), and the decentralization, part and temporary, of the operational management of the SCP ( PCP ) ; the projects of lein. 362 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a cooperation programme between the State and the Local Authorities for the use of public real estate ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 363 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Democratic management of pre-school establishments and basic and secondary education ( CFP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 364 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 37 / 81 ( Nationality Law ) ( PSD ) ; and draft resolutions No 587 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Development of the Portuguese Foreign Education Network ( PSD ), 588 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Inclusion of RTP-Medeira and RTP-Azores on the national terrestrial digital television grid ( TDT ) ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 589 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Base of the Lajes ( PSD ), which falls to 2. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u73	We are now entering the third point of our order of business, with the appreciation of petition No 23 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Submitted by Ana Cristina de Brito Leal and others, requesting measures for the preservation of the Formosa River and immediate suspension of demolition. Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet all and all the petitioners of the petition herein presented for the adoption of measures to preserve the Formosa River and the immediate suspension of demolition, as well as all the inhabitants of the barrier islands, in the Algarve, island which, with their example of fighting for the right to dignity and justice, have demonstrated to the country that it is worth fighting. Even last October, in the face of the imminent new demolitions, the theme was discussed here, in the Assembly of the Republic, through the presentation of several draft resolutions, one of which was again presented by the Left Block and recommended the immediate suspension of the demolitions, particularly in the population nuclei Farol and Hangares, on the island of Culatra. Sadly it was plunged with the votes of PS, PSD and CDS. But other positive points were approved: the recognition of the economic, social and cultural value of all population nuclei, the development of a plan to re-qualify these areas in view of the risks associated with the processes of coastal dynamics and climate change, the adoption of an integrated plan that includes the fight against pollution, appropriate dredgings, and the adoption of structural measures to combat coastal erosion, in order to preserve the value of the river and also the activities of vivoirists and mariners. It was also important to recognize the historical cores of the Hangars and the Farol. Now, we need to move on to practice and put on the new Coastal Ear Management Plan exactly what was approved here. Due to the determined struggle of the islanders, the government retreated, well, and entered into dialogue with the communities. May this continue and the dialogue and common sense prevail, the satisfaction of all. If it were with the new PSD/CDS government, more than 500 homes would certainly be destroyed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u75	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u76	I will finish, Mr. President. It is always worth fighting and, for the struggle and defense of popular interests, they can always count on the Left Block. Good Party Votes to all. The “I’m Ilhéu” and the fight continues! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u77	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Graça.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u78	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the first note we have to give here, because we have discussed this subject several times, is in the sense of knowing why the algae do not fill the galleries today. They do not fill the galleries because, essentially, the government has already complied with what this petition and the petitioners required. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The first word will therefore go to the Minister of the Environment, who has personally decided to study this theme of the Formosa River and its human occupation: he has heard the people, gathered with the associations and saw, with his own eyes, the reality of each of the nuclei and of each of the families that live there. Therefore, where the PSD predicted the total demolition of the historic nuclei of the Hangars and the Farol, intervention was limited to areas of greater environmental risk, assigning licences for 30 years to fishermen, seafarers and wildlife and creating a fishing nucleus on the island of Faro. And where the PSD placed caterpillars and bulldozers, the Socialist Party's Government advances with dredgings on the canals, with works of requalification of the public space in the center of the Culatra, with the construction of a new bridge to the island of Faro and with the construction of a new station to treat sewages that cannot continue to be launched into the waters of the Formosa River without treatment. The action of the Ministry of the Environment, in particular the Minister of the Environment, puts an end to a long and wrong discussion because the environment cannot be defended without involving people living in protected areas. I would like to highlight here what was said in the Regulation of the Ria Formosa Natural Park, created in 1991 by the Government of Cavaco Silva : « The demolitions to be carried out must begin with the houses installed in the primary dune, all of which, duly limited, should be applied a plan of recovery of degraded areas; ». What a pity this PPD / PSD, who thought about people, no longer exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u79	It exists, it exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u80	This is precisely what the Government of the Socialist Party and the Ministry of the Environment have done: limiting demolition to areas at greatest risk. That is why, Mr. President, to conclude, if in November 2015 the wind has changed to the country, also now, in December 2016, we can say that the tide has changed in the Formosa River. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u81	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 4000 signatories of the petition today under discussion and the local communities of the Ria Formosa Barrier Islands and their representative associations for their intense struggle against demolition, a struggle that always featured the support of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u84	We have no doubt, it was this courageous and persistent struggle that allowed the demolition to be stopped from the successive governments from expelling the local communities from the islands of the Formosa River to then hand over this valuable natural heritage to the great private interests so that they can exploit it for their benefit. This is another concrete example of what is worth fighting! But, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the threat of demolition is not definitely far away. It is not far away because, recognizedly, PSD, CDS and also PS do not want to assume the unequivocal commitment to end the demolitions at once. It is not far away, because the great private interests that want to appropriate a wealth that is of everyone did not give up the objective of expelling the local communities from the barrier islands of the Formosa River.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u85	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u86	Therefore, populations need to be vigilant, very vigilant, because at any time they can return to the demolition. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: last November, the Assembly of the Republic adopted several proposals contained in a draft resolution of the CFP on the Formosa River, including the recognition of the population nuclei of the slums, the requalification of these nuclei, the environmental requalification of the lagoon system of Ria Formosa and the support for the economic activities developed there. The CFP has already questioned the Government about the concrete measures that will be taken for the rapid implementation of these proposals and will continue to intervene and strive hard to defend the right to live and produce in the Formosa River. This is the PCP compromise! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u87	For an intervention, Mr. José Carlos Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the petitioners, beginning with recalling that this issue, the demolition and requalification of the Formosa River, has been being debated in plenary several times in recent months. And unlike the other political forces, who have maintained their positions, obviously with different understandings, with different perspectives of action, it is verified that the Socialist Party's position has been characterized by oscillation, the pendulum movement, as it is or is not time for electoral campaign, as it is in opposition or power and, in power, as it is day of government or opposition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u89	It will be worth remembering, without being exhaustive, some of the recent episodes, with regard to initiatives from parliamentary groups to the left of the PS, which were in the same direction as the petition under discussion today. In 2015, being in opposition, the Socialist Party was in favour; then being a government, but still a fresh government, in February this year, changed from favorable to abstention; and recently, already in October, it was no longer in favour, after all, it was no longer absent and, after all, its position was already unfavorable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u90	Now, this lack of clarification continues, as you have just seen today, and however, we need to go back to 2015, at the time of the previous PSD/CDS government, to actually find the latest environmental requalification actions in the Formosa River : dredgings in Armona ; dredgings in the Faro/Olhão Canal ; filling of the Farol beach. And that is why this indefinition is a cause for apprehension, this advance-and-recovery of the Socialist Party and the Government. Also in the field of environmental requalification, particularly in the Formosa River, as seen throughout this year of 2016, this has been reflected in lack of investment and in a kind of failure in action that we cannot fail to highlight and consider worrying. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u91	Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners who have joined in this civic intent, in a petition which, I must say, is extensive, reasoned and very detailed, and it is on the text of this petition that I will make some comments on behalf of the CDS-PP. The petition begins by saying that the Formosa River, in the Algarve, is an ecosystem complex that comprises a lagoon area and a donor cord parallel to the continental edge. It is about 18 400 ha over 60 km protected by the status of the Natural Park, rich in its diversity in fauna and flora, constituting a privileged place of nesting birds and maternity for fish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u93	Talk about demolition!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u94	That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, for the CDS, this area will always be worthy of a coherent and irreducible position in an unconditional defense of this environmental protected heritage. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Then you say that you have motivated the establishment on these islands of fishing communities and seafarers who built their homes there, with associated economic potential. We agree with that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u95	It's just condominiums!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u96	They also say that these buildings began at the end of the 19th century, but as we all know, not all of them, particularly those that were not licensed, were started at the end of that century. Therefore, if it is true, as the petitioners say, that there were very erratic postures by the authorities, who proceeded to collect taxes and taxes and to install water and light, giving a perspective for the development of these communities, we also know that nothing was more erratic than the position of the Socialist Party, who had one while in the opposition and now in the government has another.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u97	What about the demolition? Does nothing say about demolition? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u98	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u99	Mr Luís Graça, the Minister for the Environment began to take an interest in this issue a month ago, after a lot of pressure and a lot of intervention. Only there did the Minister for the Environment start talking to the local communities. I repeat, just there! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u100	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 114 / XIII ( 1 ). (a) — Submitted by Antonio José Salgado Rosa Negrão and others, requesting that all citizens have the same social dignity and be equal before the law as regards education. For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition can do the impossible thing that is to quote the Constitution to claim something that actually does not agree with it, and I would say, even, that it goes against the Constitution. The petition says, well, that Article 75. the Constitution determines that the State will create a network of public educational institutions and that this determination cannot challenge the right of freedom of choice by the families of the orientation of their daughters and children. It is true that the Constitution does not prevent the right of families to choose any other school other than public school, but what the Constitution does not give the State the obligation to pay the frequency of private schools by the children of these families. Therefore, what the petitioners want is that the State pays a value for the frequency of educational establishments, whether they are State or private. In other words, the petitioners want the State to create an education market, through the so-called 'check-teaching', a model that does not actually enable the objectives of the Constitution to be met, with regard to education, a model that ends up creating discrimination against those who attend school, a model that ends up creating a second school for the children of the poor and a first school for the children of the rich. But neither the State nor the Constitution could ever allow this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u102	For an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The exercise of the right of petition, as an instrument of democratic political participation, is a laudable expression of citizenship, which is why I welcome, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, particularly at this time. Petitioners, stressing the commitment for the present discussion of the topic to take place now and in this process. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it enshrines the Basic Law as follows: "All have the right to education with the right to equal opportunities for access and school success" and that, "in carrying out the teaching policy, it is the responsibility of the State: (...) Ensure universal, compulsory and free basic education;" and (...) Create a public system(...)" of education. It also establishes our Constitution: « The State will create a network of public educational establishments covering the needs of the entire population ». These constitutional commands are inevitable assumptions in any approach to education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u105	Education and training — underlined — are fundamental foundations in a society and an economy based on learning, knowledge and qualification. Education is a condition for the personal realization of citizens and for the consolidation of a more just and more cohesive society. For us, we stress, education and public school are, above all, a decisive means of promoting inclusion and equal opportunities for all citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u107	The equal access of all children to public school, particularly during the 12 years of schooling, is therefore the inevitable commitment we have to the Constitution of the Republic and a national plan for the Socialist Party. This means, however, that the State is responsible for the development of a public education network for all Portuguese people. We recognize the importance of private and cooperative education over the years, but we understand that it is not up to the same State to encourage it. How well the honourable Members invoke. Petitioners, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, likewise requiring a school network to ensure the provision of the public education service, also enshrines the right of families to decide on the education of their daughters and children, that is to say, parents are the priority of the right to choose the kind of education to give to their children. We understand, however, that freedom of choice can function as a element of reducing equity, since it is not based on equal access conditions. We must not fail to point out that, because of significant investments in recent decades and because of the involvement of all educational agents and authorities, the Portuguese public school has reached levels of excellence in the students' learnings that we can all be proud of, levels that are recognized in the international context. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we have always assumed, in accordance with the constitutional terms, the private and cooperative education network...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u108	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u109	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are convinced that, even rather than what the petitioners say, the public school is the guarantee that the educational process will never be programmed or guided by any philosophical, aesthetic, political, ideological or religious guidelines determined by any power. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u110	Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the 5785 petitioners who, on the right to access to education, brought to Parliament the problem of equality and freedom. For the PSD, citizens' initiatives are always to be praised. There's no better or worse, they're all good! We can agree whether or not we agree with the content of the petitions, but we believe that all initiatives in which people are concerned about social problems should be praised, which are interested in building a more just, prosperous and more opportunities for all. We believe in all citizens. Interestingly, for the parties on the left, it seems only to praise the initiatives of those who think the same. Strange form of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Signs of modern times! in its essence, what this petition brings us here is the problem of freedom. The freedom of choice of a school, the freedom of choice of an educational model. No one has any doubts, sirs. Petitioners, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the PSD has always been, and will always be, in favour of citizens' freedom. We in the PSD believe in the right of people to make choices as well as regarding their education. We believe in the choices, free and responsible, by the people and believe in the freedom of initiative. The left ones, in these modern times, only want to believe in the freedom to impose their choices on all others. VV. Ex., Mrs. Left-wingers, do you even feel that you have the right to impose people — to everyone out there — the only model of school you believe in? We in the PSD believe in a public education service made for all citizens, for people, and not for ideological interests or derivatives. We believe in a public education service that denies any totalitarianism, especially that it does not constitute itself a form of despotism or authoritarianism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u112	We believe in a public service of democratic education, where state-owned schools and schools can coexist with other management models, because nothing moves us against cooperative schools, associations schools, IPSS schools or even private schools. in PSD we never had prejudices against the private initiative...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u113	No, they're against the public! Your prejudice is against public school!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u114	... in economic activity, in support of citizens. And neither do we have these prejudices in education, in any of their degrees of teaching, from pre-school to higher. in the PSD we believe in citizens, believe in civil society and believe in the ability of people to make conscious and informed choices. No one has freedom if he is obliged to accept a single model, a system without alternative, autocratic and that no one has suffocated in the polls. [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u115	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only freedom when one can choose and there is only democracy when there is freedom. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u116	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would begin by congratulating the honourable Members on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party. Subscribers of petition No 114 / XIII ( 1. ( a). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Basic Law of the Education System provide for the responsibility of the State in the creation of a network of public educational establishments covering the needs of the whole population, so that the right of all children and young people to equal access and success in school is guaranteed, without discrimination on the basis of economic and social conditions. This responsibility of the State corresponds to the consideration that only a public school that ensures identical conditions of access to education to children of the wealthiest families and children of the poorest families is able to ensure equal conditions in access to education and in combating social asymmetries. The invocation of the falsely referred to as ‘freedom of choice’ only serves to justify that there is one school for the rich and another for the poor,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u119	...reproducing and accentuating social asymmetries and inequalities...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u120	So much inconsistencies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u121	...and still seeking to be the State to finance this inequality. It is the State, according to the constitutional text, that must guarantee access to education, and the instrument to do so is the universal public school of quality, free and inclusive in all compulsory education irrespective of the economic and social conditions of each. It is the public school that guarantees universality, equal access and success in schools and the fight against economic and social inequalities. It is the public school that ensures that the children of workers and the children of those who have much the same learning conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u123	So much so that the possibility of concluding association contracts is restricted only to areas where there is no public network coverage. And it is on the assumption that the universality of public school is being fulfilled, as a guarantee of everyone's access to education, that the CFP advocates the need to maintain the possibility of contracts of association with private schools and the cooperative sector, in accordance with the defined rules, in regions where public school is not yet able to host these students.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u125	Education is an essential element for the growth and integrated development of our country. And it is up to the State to develop an education system that enables the raising of the cultural level of the population and the integral training of the individual that requires adequate investment in the public education network, both in human resources and in material resources, and in the conditions of operation of the public school, which allows the improvement of the teaching/learning process. It is therefore on the side of defending a public, universal, free and quality school for all that the CFP will always be. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u126	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Subscribers of the petition, which I use to greet, intend to exercise the right to choose whether the school is the educational project, for the education of their children. They invoke Article 68. that of our Constitution, which states that "parents and mothers have the right to the protection of society and the State in carrying out their irreplaceable action in relation to children, in particular their education(...)" and recall the State's obligation to promote and ensure access to the compulsory and free education system. With regard to this matter, it is established that «the State recognises the freedom to learn and teach, including the right of parents to choose and guide the educational process of their children». As it is stated that « the exercise of freedom of teaching can only be restricted on the basis of constitutionally protected and regulated public interests, which are realized for general purposes of educational action » and, on the other hand, that « it is the duty of the State, within the framework of the family support policy, to provide financial support aimed at costing expenditure on children's education ». All of this is based on legislation published in Diário da República, more specifically in Decree-Law No 152/2013 of 4 November 2013. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u128	As such, it is appropriate to agree with the argument put forward in the petition, in particular when it stresses that the State has a duty to contribute in relation to all children and young people with the value necessary for the frequency of educational establishments, whether they belong to the State or to private institutions. in fact, it is also our understanding that the State has an obligation to pay the same value to all families, whether they opt for the frequency of a public school or not, whether in situations of absence or insufficient response from public institutions or not. However, the State cannot, in its decisions, deny or spread the existence of private and cooperative educational establishments, which must necessarily be regarded as an integral part of the school network, because they are, as referred to in Article 58 ( 1 ). that of the Basics Law of the Education System. Moreover, in this context it is still important to bear in mind that since the 1982 Constitutional Review, private and cooperative educational institutions have ceased to be complementary in public education. The obligation of the State to value the provision of public service would therefore be unthinkable and absolutely unacceptable for it to ignore, respect or recognize, for all legal effects, in particular in terms of equalization of careers and competitive situations, the time of service and the professional experience of so many and so many teachers who have been teaching in educational establishments which, not being public, are of recognised public interest. They are body and soul professionals who have contributed with exemplary competence and dedication to the success of their students, in line with what happens, as we well know, with their fellow students in public school. Thus, in the understanding of the CDS, it is the obligation of the State to defend and implement an educational system of excellence—in which it must necessarily include all educational establishments and all teaching workers, either in the public sector or in the private sector—and ensure the access of all children and young people to this education of excellence, without depriving themselves of the freedom of choice and choice of all parents as to the establishment of teaching to attend by their children. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not surprising that we have recently been discussing the issue of public water management, where the prejudice of the PSD and the CDS regarding public water management was very clear... [[PSD protests.]] ... and that we are now discussing another fundamental public service, which is education, and it has been quite clear the prejudice of the PSD and CDS in relation to public school. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. PSD said he never had any prejudices about private school. And the honourable Member is quite right, because your prejudice is in relation to public school. Mr Deputy calls the public school a model without an alternative. Mr Deputies, it is very well explained that you did not invest in public school when they were government! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] The successive sub-financing, the closed attack on teachers, non-teachers, is well explained how they disqualified the public school. Now you see well, for your speech, why: they wanted to feed the private school! Mr President, I am going to tell you, with all sincerity, the following: The Greens have no prejudice to private school! None! [[Here, here!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u131	They have no prejudices about private schools! What you must not want is for the State to finance them — your owner! There are private schools! But the privates who finance them, as it is obvious! It's a business, Mr. Deputies. With regard to public school, who is responsible for financing it? to the State, Mr. It is the State that must invest in the quality of public school, to serve all Portuguese. Yes, because there are Portuguese people who want to make the choice of a quality public school. That is why we have to work, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u133	And, look, when we talk about investment in public school, we don't talk about spending, it's not that quality that this investment should be made. It's not a waste, as you can see. It is an investment, an investment in the qualification of Portuguese and in the future development of the country. You wanted a public school attack. But here we always beat our feet to defend it. And any responsibility we have is to defend the public school. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u134	For a second intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS insist on confusing the freedom provided for in the Constitution with the State's obligation to maintain a private income and pay the private schools of families who think they cannot put their children in public school. What we advocate is that public school, which is for everyone and is a right of everyone, is a public school of excellence. The excellence that Mrs. CDS wanted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u136	The public school in Carcavelos is closed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u137	But for public school to be a school of excellence, we need the investment that CDS and PSD never wanted to do in public school. Mr Álvaro Batista has a funny view of modern times. Mr President, in these modern times, the left defends public school as a unique and autocratic model. I shall now give the honourable Member an update : in less modern times, the PSD has voted on the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which provides for public school, as it exists, and which does not provide for a system of 'check-in'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u138	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u139	Far away, far away was the PSD that defended the public school and voted for it in the Constitution. [[PSD protests.]] If different is that of the CDS, which has never voted the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, nor the Law of the Basics of the Education System, and which, in fact, wanted to change the Basics Law of the Educational System to withdraw the obligation of the State to create the public school because it has always defended a system in which the rich have a type of school and the poor have another type of school. Mrs Assunção Cristas was the one to say « sacrifice the public school». The CDS fully knows what the model of the “check-teaching” means. It means that schools choose children for school results, so that they can stay well in the rankings,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u140	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u141	...the rankings that are the great propaganda of private colleges. But we also know... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u142	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u143	I conclude, Mr President, if the benches on the right leave me.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u144	I would ask that the honourable Member be silenced.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u145	As I said, we also know that nine out of every ten students who lead are missing families. So tell me there, Mrs. Member: what school would you choose these students? What was the private college that would choose these students? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we conclude the assessment of petition No 114 / XIII ( 1. ( a). In the meantime, new legislative initiatives have been introduced into the Bureau, which Mrs Emília Santos will report.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u147	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 586 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Reference is made to the ratification by the Portuguese State of the United Nations International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families ( adopted by Resolution No 45 / 158 of the General Assembly of 18 December 1990 ) ( CFP ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 590 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make every effort to recover and enhance the Peniche Fortress ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 591 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government determine the immediate reduction in the production of Celtejo ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 592 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the public management of the North Rehabilitation Centre Joaquim Ferreira Alves ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u148	Thank you very much, Secretary Emília Santos. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the fifth and last items of the agenda include the assessment of petition No 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), in defense of public school, together with draft resolution No 578 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Defence and valorisation of public school ( CFP ). For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP begins by welcoming the more than 77 000 subscribers of the petition to defend the public school and compliments the petitioners present here in the galleries, which, among other aspects, advocate compliance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic by ensuring the existence of adequate funding for public school. We follow this vision and therefore present the draft resolution for the defense and valorization of the public school. We propose that the necessary measures be planned by the Government to ensure that, in the coming years, sustained growth in the budget for public education and higher education takes place until an investment by a student is reached that enables the country's needs to be met, in accordance with constitutional principles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u151	To this end, we propose that needs be raised and measures be developed to ensure the progressive freeness of education for all, equal opportunities in access and school frequency, access for all to the highest levels of education, democratic management of schools, integral training of the individual. We also consider the realization of national competitions that attribute the effective public bond to teachers and non-teachers, teachers and special education technicians, psychologists and education science professionals who supersede the permanent needs of schools. However, with regard to democratic management, the CFP believes that it is time to have a debate on the subject of school management and management. And that is why we announced that you have already introduced a PCP bill on the democratic management and management of pre-school institutions and basic and secondary education. It is not possible to make a positive assessment of the application of the current system of administration and management of educational establishments. The democratity, representativeness and participation of the various bodies of the school are committed to the current figure of unipersonal organ, to the detriment of the functioning of collegial organs. The PCP project contains an alternative view and is based on respect for the values of democracy and participation that inform the Basics Law of the Educational System, in the spirit of democratization of the teaching loaded in the womb of the April Revolution. This is, above all, a bill that aims to enhance public school, promote school success and make the organs of leadership and management real elements of pedagogical modernization and autonomy of the school for the realization of an educational project itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put democratic management back on the table. We will be there to do this debate. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u152	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, that health, through the representatives of FENPROF, the more than 70,000 signatories to this petition, highlighting among these the MPs of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens who have subscribed to it. Since the first hour, the current government has assumed as a premise that the defense of public school constitutes an act of constitutional normality and a greater desire for all those who recognize in their effective protection and development an essential instrument for the democratization of access to knowledge and, consequently, for the harmonious development of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: in the aegis of the previous government, of Passos and Portas, under the apologizing cloak of external intervention, the national education service saw its existence and its purposes perished by a disgusting implosive temptation, embraced with unheard of enthusiasm by the former Minister of Education, Nuno Crato. Mrs. Members, we defend the public school, from the moment we assume it as a fundamental pillar in the development of the Republic. The educational community recognises in the current Government this unwavering conviction, as well as the competence and energy to realize this vision. We defended the public school when we strengthened its budget above the symbolic threshold of EUR 6 billion, doing so while we complied with the internationally agreed agreements and achieved the best budgetary implementation of democratic Portugal. We defend the public school when, respecting the role of private education, we eliminate patent redundancy in the network of educational establishments which, with unnecessary association contracts, have read the state funds and inhibited investment in staff and infrastructure, which is still so necessary today. The government has demonstrated here the courage that separates the rulers whose action pays attention to the transitoryness of statesmen whose brand will remain. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Mrs. Members, today, we close the last debate in plenary in 2016 with the discussion around the defense of public school. And how good it is to be able to say, from the House of Democracy to all educational establishments, that during this year we have met our objectives and that the outlook for 2017 will be indelibly marked by the normal functioning of educational establishments, by the strengthening of legislative stability, by the freeness of school textbooks, by the increase of social action in volume and scope, by the promotion of school success, based on the initiative of schools... [[All right!]] [[Protests by PSD Members Amadeu Soares Alberaria and Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u154	We know that you are disturbed by the confidence we have in Portuguese teaching, but please let me continue. He said that the outlook for 2017 will also be marked by the appreciation of the role of teachers and non-teachers and the promotion of social peace in education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: PS does not confuse normality with perfection. We know that the way to reverse the secondaryization to which the public school has been vetoed is hard and extensive. We will continue to work to affirm a national education service that honours the constitutional values that founded it. Mr. President, I end with a quote that reflects the feeling of hope and freedom that today encourages the school community: "The public school is of congratulations, and when the public school is of congratulations, the teachers, the non-teachers, the education officers and...", above all, "...the students are of congratulations. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u155	The parliamentary groups of the PSD, the Left Block, the CDS and the Greens have not intervened so far. With no further inscriptions, we are finishing this item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] The Bureau did not register, so I declare that the sitting was closed. I wish you all a good Christmas. Until the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u156	I am sorry, Mr President, but I would still like to sign up for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u157	Although you have already declared the session closed, since it is Christmas, you have the floor, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the spirit of Christmas. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens want to begin by welcoming the submission of this petition with more than 77 000 subscribers. We believe that the text of the petition touches on a fundamental issue that we have been discussing precisely in the previous petition: the appreciation of public school, the need for adequate funding to create a public school of quality and excellence. To create a public school of quality and excellence, it is important to realize that there is a multisectorality that needs to be played in public school. And that's why we talk about respect for teachers. And that's why we're talking about respect for non-teachers. And so we talk about the need to respond to the students' own needs in our teaching system. Special educational needs need to be answered. We need to stop receiving complaints from parents and children who, for example, have no interpretation and translation of gestual language in school, with the school year already taking place. We need a team of psychologists in schools that responds appropriately to the needs of our students and that they do not have a multitude of students to whom they cannot answer, with ratios far above the recommended. We need the public school to respond to the individual's comprehensive education, critical capacity, effective participation in our society. It's also citizenship we're talking about. And for this response to be given in public school in all these dimensions, it is essential that funding and investment be adequate. in this sense, The Greens reaffirm here their position that association contracts are justified only in places and in cases where the public school cannot respond. Moreover, the resources of the State, the same is to say the resources of all Portuguese, must be guided to increase the funding of public school. This is a concern that the Greens have had, of the State Budget Budget, and we will continue to fight for strengthening funding and investment in public school. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u159	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u160	Mr President, first of all, I would like to greet FenPROF for this petition. It seems that PSD and CDS are in some fear of coming to the game,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u161	We're not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u162	...but I think I can do the exercise to anticipate your arguments. It will tell the CDS that, with the end of the abuse that existed in association contracts, we damaged freedom of choice. But freedom of choice has never been guaranteed by association contracts. These contracts, in their configuration before this government rationalized them, were just that, abuse of the public system, abuse of taxpayers' money, abuse of public school, a direct diversion of money from public school to private school. You'll say the PSD that these schools and these colleges, coerced! , already existed there when the State — imagine! — decided to set up a public school next door. I remember the case of Coimbra, where former directors of the Regional Directorate of Education of the Centre were to build a college, knowing that there was already public school, to divert public money. I remember the PSD of the case of former PSD government member...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u163	Corrigendum: from PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u164	I've already mentioned the PS ones! But I would now recall the case of a former PSD government member who authorized the construction and contracts with some colleges and who then led the economic groups behind these colleges. The only thing PSD and CDS will not be able to recognize is that there was an abuse of public school. The only thing you will not be able to recognize is that the association contracts have not been created for what you are. PSD and CDS members thought they should serve. Association contracts were never a check-in, association contracts were made to meet the needs of the public education network in cases where the State failed to fulfil its constitutional obligation to build a public school. That is why association contracts serve and they were not serving for that! There were schools that had more students than the number of residents of the parish where they were inserted. Could these schools be meeting a need for the public system or were these schools abusing public money and collecting students in the geographical area where there was, after all, public offer? No, the PSD and the CDS never wanted to defend the public school, they always wanted to abuse the public school, degrade the public school. They will say CDS and PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u165	And what does the Left Block say?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u166	...that, after all, we do not take such good care of the public school, because the current government allows there to be a need for assistants. I will reply that during the PSD and CDS government, 70 000 to 80 000 public officials have disappeared from the system. They're gone! They were fired or not hired! And most of these civil servants worked in the Ministry of Education. So whenever the PSD and CDS ask where are the assistants who need schools, they have to ask themselves what they did to them. They fired us, they didn't hire them, that's why they're not there and we need to hire more, yes, sir. What did PSD and CDS do to the teachers? They fired us! 30,000 teachers were fired.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u167	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u168	Up to the question of pedagogy the PSD and CDS were able to end the pedagogical pair of EVT (Visual and Technological Education) in order to be able to fire more teachers and thus earn money with the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u169	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u170	Finally, Mr President, and to conclude,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u171	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u172	...I just want to say that, of course, the Left Block accompanies this PCP draft resolution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u173	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting all petitioners, some of whom are present here, either in the galleries, or in the benches on the left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u175	in the benches? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u176	... acknowledging all legitimacy to all citizens to present petitions that meet their needs and ambitions, in this case in defense of public school. in this matter, the CDS has gone further and has stated itself in defense of a quality school, because this is what we want to see universally realized for the best education of our students and for the realization of the Constitution in its article 74. o. Whether from the state network, whether from the public network with association contract, whether from the private network or cooperative, what we defend is the quality school,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u177	... that that develops a self-educational project, adjusted to context, and that leads students to the best of themselves. Defending the quality school is looking at examples such as that of the Basic and Secondary School of Vila Cova, in Barcelos, the College of Our Lady of Rosário, in the Port, the High School of D. Manuel I, in Beja, or the College of São Miguel, in Fatima, and so many other schools that have been able to promote direct paths of success or to overcome the limitations of adverse contexts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u178	He forgot to come dressed in yellow!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u179	Defending the quality school is looking at cases such as that of the Carcavels High School, often pointed out as an example in the public network, actively denounce the failures that make it run the risk of closing and fighting for its viability not because it is public, but because it is good. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u180	Defending the good school is also taking care of the professionals who work in it. It is to defend, exactly as paragraph 3 of the petition — and I quote — that « to teachers of private and cooperative establishments whose working hours are even more overloaded, the same rules apply in public education ». You will very much like the CDS to see FENPROF make this defense, here so precisely placed, when you are at the table of negotiations with the Ministry of Education to deal with the competition for linkage of teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u181	in its point 1 the petition asks — and I quote — that « in respect of the Constitution, ensure adequate funding to public school ». To reflect on everyone, I wonder how it is justified that in 2017 the EUR 6 billion approved in the State budget, by PS, BE, PCP, The Greens and the NAP will be suitable for the defence of public school, when in 2013 the same EUR 6 billion of budgetary implementation were classified as an attack on public school? Oh, my God! [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u182	Finally, and because I have the last intervention of the CDS, in plenary this year, I would like to wish Happy Holidays to all educational communities. That 2017 be a year of stability in education policies and that we in Parliament know how to promote quality school, that which elevates the country also in international results, but above all that allows each student to achieve their full potential. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u183	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD will, of course, always agree with the principles of this petition. The defense of the public school of quality, inclusive and free, open to all must always be a principle, a defense, a cause of all parties. But the PSD does not change position or position as it is in government or opposition. We leave this to the parties that are now in government. Dear Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see the PCP, the Left Block and the PS — and now the leader of FenPROF, the first subscriber of this petition — at the door of the Carcavels High School, defending the failure to close that school. [[PSD applause.]] I'd like to see the leader of FenPROF and the gentlemen. Members to protest against constant delays in payments to professional schools. I would like to see everyone fighting against the non-closure of libraries or gymnasiums because of the lack of employees because of 35 hours. I'd like to see you guys. Members and the FENPROF leader protesting, because the government does not pay to families who have acquired school textbooks and the school social action is delayed. That's why you should be outraged! I'd like to see you guys. Members and the FENPROF leader protesting against the State budget for public school, which is less than last year. This is to destroy the public school! But, as you are, you can already! [[PSD applause.]] This is maybe 50. the petition that is first subscribed by the leader of FenPROF, but fortunately, over the last 15 years, none of them has been taken into account by successive governments. Perhaps, that's why we had the results we had at PISA (Program for International Student Assessment) and TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study). I hope that this Minister of Education will not continue to give in to the leader of FENPROF in terms of ideology and not educational policy. Mr. President and Mr. Members, speaking about what public school should be and the defense of public school, would like to see the PCP and the Left Block not only be the facilitators of the bleaching that is being done in public school, by this government, the bleachers of what is being done in public school, which is the destruction of quality. There are debts in schools, secondary schools have no money for maintenance, because the government has ordered to freeze the money. They do not pay the POCH (Operational Programme of Human Capital) to schools, they have delays in paying to students who are entitled to food allowance, which never happened in the worst periods of austerity. I'd like to see the leader of FenPROF and the gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party alongside the school communities, and not only facilitate or whitewash the mistakes of this Minister of Education. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u185	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques referred several times to Mr. Members and the leader of FENPROF. The leader of FENPROF cannot answer, but there are Mrs. Members who are, of course, registered for this purpose. [[PSD protests.]] There were comments from the galleries, so I said that the leader of FENPROF cannot answer. Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear, at the end of this debate, the prejudice that really exists in the benches of the right to public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u187	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u188	This is an absolutely obvious issue, because for the PSD and for the CDS everything that smells more freedom, more social justice, more democracy in schools does not deserve any consideration. It's a fact! [[PCP applause.]] More: everything that smells more freedom, more social justice, more democracy in schools, for the PSD and for the CDS, is to block, is to prevent, is to avoid. All that enables the removal of asymmetries, promoting equal opportunities, the integral formation of the individual, for the PSD and for the CDS, does not matter at all, as is shown here. Mr. Duarte Filipe Marques, just to finish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u189	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u190	...I'd like to have seen the previous government solve the problem of the High School of Carcavels because he already existed. That's what I'd like to see! [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] More: they had the opportunity to extinguish the School Park and did not do what they should have done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u191	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u192	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the CFP here will certainly face the defense of the public school, contrary to the benches on the right. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-23.u193	Mrs. Members, having no further speakers, we have reached the end of the joint debate on petition No 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and draft resolution No 578 / XIII ( 2. (a) and, with that, at the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held on 5 January at 3 p.m. on the agenda, in addition to the political declarations, we will proceed to the joint examination of petitions Nos 490 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by ANTRAL ( National Association of Road Transporters in Light Cars ), requesting the prohibition of the installation and operation of Uber in Portugal and the re-evaluation of the Legal Regime of Transport of Non- Urgent Patients, and 518 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Presented by Francisco Maria Teixeira and others — « We want to Uber in Portugal ». Petition No 81/ XIII will still be appreciated ( 1 ). a ) — Submitted by Nuno Micael Alvim Coelho da Silva and others, requesting that legislative measures be taken to ensure the inclusion of vegetarian options in Portuguese schools, universities and hospitals. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen. Members who, at 12 hours and 30 minutes, will hold-CL in the Senate Chamber, the award ceremony of the Human Rights Award 2016 to Eng.António Guterres, where we will have the honour to have the presence of Mr. President of the Republic and Mr. Prime Minister. Finally, I would once again like to wish the Members and the Members. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials and the Journalists and the Members. Very Good Party Journalists, a Good Christmas and an excellent year of 2017. The session is closed. [[It was 11 hours and 48 minutes.]]
