ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we get on the agenda, I ask Secretary Emília Santos to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, draft resolutions 531 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create an organic law of the maritime police in accordance with its mission, competences and civil nature ( BE ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 532 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, from 27 October to 1 December 2016, and extension of its period of operation for more than 90 days ( the President of the HR ). He also gave the Bureau a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees concerning the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3. a is 7. the Statute of the Deputies of Mr. Jorge Moreira da Silva ( PSD ), an electoral circle of Braga, being replaced by Mr. Rui Manuel Ferreira da Silva ( PSD ), with effect from 1 November 2016, including. Since Mr Jorge Moreira da Silva is not present, the opinion will be voted on in the voting period and it is in the sense of renunciation and the replacement of the Member concerned to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met, That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u3	Thank you, Secretary. Before we go into our agenda, I would just like to say that I congratulated Mr. Jorge Moreira da Silva on his choice of international competition for a very important position in the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). This is an organization which, as you know, I know particularly well, so I know it is not easy to integrate that elite body as Director of Development Cooperation. [[General applause.]] I am grateful for the applause on behalf of Mr Moreira da Silva, who is not present to thank you. Let us then enter our agenda, the first of which consists in the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 315 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Converts reductions to public grants for the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns to a final and permanent effect and to the ceilings of election campaign expenditure ( PSD ), 314 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June introducing measures for fiscal justice, equal treatment and transparency in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns ( BE ), 304 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), eliminating the benefit of municipal property tax exemption ( IMI ) for political parties ( CDS-PP ), 331 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Act No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), establishing definitive reductions in public grants for the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns and at the ceilings of election campaign expenditure ( CDS-PP ), 332 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Revoke some of the benefits of political parties provided for in Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, and reduce the values of the financing of electoral campaigns ( PAN ), 333 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of 10 % deduction on the grant of political parties for more than two years ( PAN) and 336 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduce public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns ( CFP ). For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Political parties are essential to democracy, ensuring plurality of opinions and developing an irreplaceable activity as legitimate representatives of citizens. The democratic Portugal in which we live was forged and based on the strength and implementation of the parties as the main representatives of the populations. This force and legitimacy do not exclude them from the effort that the Portuguese — all Portuguese — are subject to because of the economic and financial crisis in which Portugal has been immersed. And it was consistent with this principle that Law No 55 / 2010 reduced by 10 % the amount of subsidies from political parties and election campaigns, as well as the limits of expenditure on electoral campaigns by 31 December 2013. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as it was evident to the PSD, with the financial situation of the country, who deteriorated to the point of needing to use external aid, with all the conditions that they had from there, were required to maintain such effort, and as such, PSD and CDS-PP presented to Parliament a bill that gave rise to Law No 1 / 2013, and that extended by 31 December 2016 the cut of 10 % in the grant for the financing of political parties. At the same time, this bill raised to 20 % the cut in the subsidy for the financing of election campaigns, as well as within the limits of the expenditure of the election campaigns, also by 31 December 2016, at the same time that it finally limited by 25 % the amount of the subsidy that can be channelled to expenditure related to outsiders. The truth is, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, times are still difficult. Portugal continues to live moments of uncertainty, as a result of an unstable economic and financial situation, aggravated by the options of the current government. Amazingly, the Socialist Party's silence on this matter is deafening.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u6	When we were expected to take the lead in this process, we do not hear a proposal, we do not know a position, after all, no one knows what the Socialist Party is coming from, too, say, as the way the country governs. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD is very comfortable in this matter. This is why the legislative initiative we are presenting today is intended to make the said reductions to public subsidies and the ceilings on expenditure in electoral campaigns final and permanent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u8	Like the Portuguese, neither the political parties nor the state, can live above their possibilities. For this reason, account is taken of the authentic interpretation operated by Law No 62 / 2014, so that the same interpretative doubts do not arise that were at the origin of this Law. This amendment, proposed here today, denotes a very clear option of the PSD for reducing public charges for election campaign expenditure. The cuts in subsidies to political parties arose because the difficulties of the country so dictated. And the economic and financial situation remains delicate. Therefore, the PSD, as a responsible party, does not accept a policy reversal that increases State spending in a way that the Portuguese will hardly understand and the good sense disapproves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u10	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u11	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the moralization of political life is also played here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u12	You must conclude, Mrs Deputy, because of the times for the other parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u13	If the parties want to maintain their responsibility and be mirrors of the desires of the Portuguese, they must begin by setting an example. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u14	Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, democracy adds legitimacy to its own democratic legitimacy when it interprets and incorporates strong signs of society. Parties must be demanding on their own, they must listen to citizenship. That's how the Left Block thinks, that's how the Left Block tries to be. If the parties are an essential part of the functioning of the democratic system, even if they do not exhaust it, the financing of the parties must be absolutely transparent, balanced, sober and, predominantly, public, precisely to ensure all these criteria. That is how the Left Block thinks, that is how the Left Block acts and, therefore, we are presenting the legislative initiative that we are now discussing. As early as 2010, the Left Block launched a debate in Parliament on the limitation of expenditure on electoral campaigns. At that time, we are reminded of the resistance that has occurred with regard to these limitations. however, we make good use of the time of this debate, the effort of this debate, all the misunderstandings and adjectives that led us during this debate, because, today, there is a greater approximation of the Assembly of the Republic of the various parties regarding this plan of limiting expenditure in electoral campaigns, of the sovereignty of the financing of political parties. For this reason, the Left Block presents this bill, which aims, firstly, to limit the financing of political parties, making effective the cut of 10 % in the funding currently in force. But we don't stay here! We also consider it essential that the expenditure of political parties be reduced in electoral campaigns. To that end, we consider it essential that, in the first step, there should be a reduction in the funding of the campaigns by 25 % of what is in force today. We also believe that in addition to the cuts, in addition to the reductions in the financing of parties and electoral campaigns, there must also be limits on the costs of these electoral campaigns. We understand that it is not surprising that parties who have had disproportionate expenses in the election campaigns, who do not look at ways to gain relevance in the election campaigns, are concerned about this issue today, but do not make any proposals regarding the limits on expenditure on the election campaigns. It seems to us, too, important in this idea of legitimizing political parties in democracy, in this idea of adding legitimacy, because one hears public opinion, because one hears democracy, because one is aware of the situation that the country is experiencing, of the austerity situation that has been imposed on millions of Portuguese people — that, in this situation, unfair tax benefits are withdrawn, that political parties continue to enjoy. We believe that the benefits relating to VAT (value added tax ), IMI ( municipal property tax ), IMT ( municipal property tax ), car tax has no justification and must be withdrawn and parties must be fair, have sovereignty and must be covered by the obligations and difficulties of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We believe that this debate is of great importance, because it is a debate that actually brings the citizens of the parties closer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u16	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u17	It is a debate that brings together the citizenship of democracy. And it is in this perspective that the democracy of the citizens, the parties, the Assembly of the Republic is approaching, that we understand this debate, that we present this bill and that is in this sense that we also call for great consensus in the Assembly of the Republic to be achieved. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u18	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not until now the understanding of the CDS that everyone, without exception, should contribute to the national effort to put Portugal back on the path of growth and sustainability. Nor is it today, nor is it now, the CDS' understanding that political parties and politicians should be the first to set an example. The CDS was the first to do so - in 2010 when the national disaster was already looming, proposing a cut of 5 % in the salary of political office holders and doing so again - now, without catastrophic reports, but with an absolutely realistic view that it is not yet time to relax in the control of public accounts and the need to see Portugal grow again. Contrary to what they have alluded to, the parties that make up the current majority have not only suddenly failed the growth goals such as, worse, managed to make Portugal grow less than the PSD and the CDS, who have just left a financial assistance program, which is not too much to remember, inherited from the PS. It adds the tax sacrifice to which they continue, and apparently the Portuguese will continue to vote. instead of now discussing what taxes we could start gradually and sustainably downgrading, we are unfortunately watching an increase in indirect taxes and the creation of some others, without falling direct taxes which, recognizedly, are too high for us. That is why and why we cannot demand from others — of all Portuguese people — what we do not demand from ourselves, parties and politicians today, we have today come to propose that politicians and parties associate themselves with the tax sacrifice of the Portuguese and, at the end of the line, contribute, although modestly, to the possibility of reducing the tax burden on the Portuguese. Thus, the bills that we present to this House are essentially based on three vectors. The first is the elimination of the exemption of the IMI from which parties have always benefited. That is, we propose that the parties start paying IMI as the other citizens. at a time when the new taxation of real estate is already a certainty, we cannot pretend not to see and be indifferent. That is the reason for this proposal. The second vector is as follows: to cut definitively the amount of the public subsidy allocated to the parties by 10 % and the amount of the subsidy for the financing of the electoral campaigns by 20 %. Simplifying and 'changing for kids', we propose a 10% reduction in the main source of party financing and 20 % reduction in expenditure to be carried out on an election campaign. The third and last vector is the elimination of the possibility of allocating any public money to the design, production and affixing of outdoors, posters and screens on the public road. Not only because of the environmental waste that obviously means, not only because of the savings that this implies, but also because it is time to back up the debate and promote direct contact with the citizens. Today there are enough and comprehensive technological means to account for the natural publicity that parties want to make of themselves and their political options. Give them more and more privilege, for all that I have already said and because our democracy needs serious approximation between electors and voters and nothing better than returning to the days of the debate of ideas to do so. This is not a new idea of ours, but it never came back. We hope that these will be the new options of the other parties in this matter to be revenged now too and that they will accompany us in this area. Finally, and in conclusion, I wanted to say to the "old men of the Restello" that no, it is not demagogy, it is the difficult reality that is at stake here, that it is not the end of the parties and that the parties are not at stake and that no, democracy is not at stake. It's just a matter of balance. We understand that between duty and there must be the example, and we also get used to living and living with the difficulties of the present and those of the future, still very uncertain, that we are expected. Most of the Portuguese out there will know what we're talking about. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u20	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP today joins this debate with two legislative initiatives that aim to contribute to the reflection on the subsidies that the Portuguese State attaches to political parties and which have been making it possible to exercise democracy. in our understanding it is essential that it is contrary to the subordination of parties to private financing, ensuring their political independence, and it is also essential to ensure democratic pluralism, so that all party formations have the opportunity to achieve a minimum economic and financial level indispensable to their functioning and sharing and dissemination of their ideals and actions. We believe that these balances must essentially come from a model of public funding that avoids party life possible practices and decisions that empower corruption, conflicts of interest and influence trafficking, considering it essential to pursue the independence of the parties and ensure that democratic political power is not subject to economic interests. As the NAP was an emerging party, it would hardly have been able to make itself heard and bring a new political color to the parliamentary panorama if it had not been able to obtain the corresponding public grant. It is also true that the party realities are totally different and that the parties' grants with the highest expression are not comparable to those of the parties such as the NAP, which is reinvented every day to maintain a functional minimum structure for the development of their political activity. Reflection made, we defend the maintenance of the current financing model, since we understand that this investment is central to the support of a more ethical, plural and free of corporate interests. however, we also believe that this model should be compatible with the current economic context of the country and with the efforts that continue to be imposed on citizens. The temporary requirement of greater rigour for public expenditure should therefore cover political parties. We therefore propose to extend the cut of 10 % in party grants for another two years. But we also want to invite you to another reflection: that of the current practice of excessive spending on the lives of parties and electoral campaigns, with which we disagree and do not compact. Accounts made, it's easy to understand. Annually, the cut of 10 % in political party grants amounts to EUR 1.6 million. The electoral campaigns of these same parties — whether European, presidential, legislative or autarchical — represent a burden to the State of EUR 12 million per year. This is about eight times more than the 10% cut in party grants. This is precisely where the state's spending with the parties takes place. We therefore propose to reduce by 50 % the permissible ceiling on expenditure incurred in each election campaign. If Parliament accepts the NAP proposal, a reduction in expenditure equivalent to EUR 6 million per year will be achieved. And we want to go further, also proposing the end of the tax benefits that fall on property, thus seeking to strengthen the promotion of a society of access and sharing to the detriment of possession and accumulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u22	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u23	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we all have the courage, without demagogy and populism, to propose amendments to the law that contribute to raising political-party activity, making it more honest, transparent, representative and, above all, independent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u24	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings to this debate the coherent position it has defended with regard to the State's recognition of the role of the parties and the public utility of their activities. This recognition, we understand, must be translated into a statute that effectively corresponds to the public utility of parties and their activity, that is not a status of privilege and that reflects on the conditions that the State attributes so that parties can develop their activities, in particular with reflections in their fiscal framework, as in fact happens with all other entities benefiting from this distinction, for recognition of the public utility also at the tax level. We do not reject that the current tax regime on exemptions granted to entities to which the public utility is recognised may be revised, which covers two dozen situations, since this review is to be carried out, should be comprehensive and take into account all the situations envisaged today. They are different from public grants to parties. We do not believe that the State's recognition of the role of the parties and their public utility must imply that the State ensures most of the financing of the parties through public grants, making the parties and their functioning dependent on the State and those subsidies. Even if the State grants the parties a grant, it should not be the main source of its financing or the financing of its activity. It must be the parties, with their own efforts, resorting to their militants and their fund-raising action, to ensure the essential of their financing, in order to ensure that they are not dependent on or captured by economic or other interests, contrary to the role they should play. The bill that the PCP presents today translates this understanding and we maintain our coherence, without surprise to anyone, with the proposals that we have come forward. We propose a 40% reduction in public funding to political parties. We propose a reduction to half of the funding of electoral campaigns to the Assembly of the Republic, the Presidency of the Republic and the European Parliament. We propose a reduction of 25% of the grants for election campaigns in the autonomous regions. We propose that the subsidy be reduced from 150 % to 100 % of the limit on expenditure admitted to the municipality in the local elections, and that limit be reduced to one third. in this sense, the CFP will follow the proposals that aim to reduce public subsidies to parties and electoral campaigns, in the expectation that, in the discussion in the specialty, adequate solutions can be found to this objective. We make a different assessment of the populist and demagogic proposals concerning the recognition of the public utility of the parties, at the level of the tax regime, presented by the CDS, Block of Left and PAN, because we do not follow the position that unites these three parties in the use of the anti-democratic discourse which, being done against the parties, is truly the target of democracy. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS MP João Galamba.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the IMI rules are the same for all parties and have been approved unanimously in this Assembly of the Republic. No one has ever questioned their existence in the adoption of those rules. Why is it that, at the end of all these years, the CDS and the Left Block, which have benefited from these exemptions, now say that they do not agree with them? It can be said, firstly, that it is by opportunism and by giving in to demagogy and populism, because in times of demagogy and populism it is more difficult to defend democracy and the role of the parties in democracy than to take advantage of the anti-democratic discourse against the parties. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] What previously the CDS and the Left Block defended and did not question today is no longer worth anything because they defend exactly the opposite, in the name of a horse riding which, by this outside Europe, is used by the extreme-right, fascist movements, which attack the parties to attack democracy and the possibility of it deepening. If it is not strange that the CDS wants to follow this speech from the extreme right, it is no longer worrying that the Left Block will also do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u27	On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a conclusion that must be withdrawn: if there are various entities to whom public utility is recognised, if the CDS and the Left Block do not intend to withdraw tax exemptions, then that means a reduction of the parties, which only they must hold accountable, in the appreciation they make of their own parties and their own activity. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u28	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today in this House we are discussing an issue of undeniable importance to the quality of our democracy. Discussing the financing of political parties is a prerequisite for defining the quality of democracy that we want. We, the Socialist Party, accept the responsibility in this matter for us, and it is with sense of responsibility that we refuse the idea of giving in to the foam of the days, to the reigning populism that assumes that the parties, it is said, formed by many of us, are ignominy, the cause of all evil. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to today's debate, a recent statement, produced in this Parliament by a personality of Portuguese public life, which I would like to mention: « Parliament should legislate on the transparency of public life all and not self-require to see whether through this public exercise out there look better for us — because they do not look, on the contrary». Who said it was Rui Rio. Mr. President and Mr. Members: This set of bills is, of course, an exercise of democratic self-flagging, designed to surf the news foam and populist drift that today captured Portuguese society. But what is at issue today is a much higher value than any title or journalistic box, a value that allows us to be here. This value is democracy! Is it the best way to deepen and defend democracy to follow positions that devalue and minimize the role of political parties in democratic construction? I don't understand. But this debate raises other questions, such as: are parties essential to democracy? Should the financing of parties be public or private? Are the costs of democracy justified? We are all aware that huge sacrifices have been demanded from the Portuguese, so it is consistent and demanding that political parties join in the collective effort of the Portuguese, which justifies the maintenance of the cut-off regime in public subsidies as long as these assumptions are maintained. We also believe that it is correct and appropriate for all parties to make an effort to contain and optimize available resources and thus reduce costs with electoral campaigns. The Socialist Party is available to accompany the Portuguese in the sacrilege and participate in this containment effort, but it cannot agree that the legislator intends to consider political activity as not worthy of equal treatment in tax exemptions when the same legislator understands, and it is said that this is justified for entities of the most different nature whose activity is recognized as of public interest. Will it be acceptable for anyone to defend that political activity does not have the same dignity, from the point of view of what is the public interest, which has all the other activities and entities that the law recognizes as deserving of identical exemptions such as those which today the law confers on political parties? The answer is only one: it is not acceptable! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some of the projects, originating in different quadrants, when they question tax exemptions on the political activity of the parties, at the headquarters of IMI (municipal property tax), IMT (municipal tax on the onerous transmission of buildings), VAT (value added tax), AI (car tax) have no other effect than to disregard political activity and ride a populist and demagogic wave whose boomerang effect will be felt, sooner or later, in the quality of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must not enter the edge of seeing who cuts faster and faster. We do not want a democracy captured by populism! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Another point of this debate is the nature of the financing of political parties. The Socialist Party unequivocally defends the public financing of political parties and their activities by accompanying the dominant current in European democracies. In fact, this is a left position, this is a left cause. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want strong, independent political parties whose only commitment is to the people they represent, we do not want captured or'sponsored' parties for economic interests. In this regard, I would like to quote another statement: "The law must not fail to ensure that parties have sufficient and necessary financial resources to carry out their activities and pursue the purposes for which they have been created, (...) which is why it is essential for the State to ensure the allocation of its financial resources." The author of this statement, with which I fully agree, is Mr Luís Montenegro. I hope you haven't changed your mind, for the sake of democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to conclude with the following: to provide means, in particular a means such as public funding, is to allow the reinventing and continuing to deepen our democracy, which fight tirelessly against the feeling that they are no more than empty boxes. Resist the vesgo populism! We wish to continue to believe that political parties are spaces of grouping, association and, above all, that democracy has a price! I conclude by saying, as Adenauer teaches us, that the whole party exists for the people and not for itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u30	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps I would like to make a first comment saying that those who diabolize political parties, in some way or another, do not provide a good service to democracy. I also find it strange that some parties, throughout their history, look back and even to the present, have had this goal of diabolizing, of discrediting political parties for being political parties. This may contain something about the intentions, the objectives of these political parties themselves. But I think today it has been said repeatedly that parties are fundamental to democracy. Indeed, it is not possible to think of democracy without political parties. I think this is a good starting point for the debate here. There is a second observation that must be made: political parties are widely scrutinized, contrary to what many people demagogically say.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u32	Exactly! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u33	On the other hand, on the financing of political parties, the position of the Greens has also been clear. In view of what is proposed today, the Greens agree with the decrease in public subsidies and the limit of election campaign expenditure. The Greens therefore agree that this form of public support, in particular through grants, is restricted. On the other hand, on the financing of the parties, the position of the Greens is very clear: on the financing of companies, no! The Greens believe that party funding should be guaranteed primarily through the actions of the parties themselves and the contributions of their militants and supporters. That is our position on this matter. But there is another issue that is at stake in some proposals put forward, in particular by the CDS, the PAN and the Left Block, and which is related to tax exemptions. Here I believe that there is a danger in the evaluation itself of what political parties are because these tax exemptions are attributed by the public utility function of political parties. To withdraw these tax exemptions is therefore to remove this idea from the public utility function of political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u35	What are we staying on? Are parties fundamental to democracy or not? Do you or do you not have a fundamental public function to play? This is the contradiction in which the Greens do not want and refuse to embark. On the other hand, these issues of tax exemptions, of public utility, of the need of political parties must also be seen in a logic of bringing these structures closer to the people. The headquarters of political parties, for example, are structures that can promote this approach, of course. We who talk so much about centralization and decentralization, also see, and perhaps it is important, these structures with this objective. I do not know exactly how some parties are organized, but if they are organized around their leadership and their leaders and do not promote this practice of approach to communities, we do not consider this logical or beneficial. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of The Greens is very clear: rather, the reduction of public subsidies; rather, the reduction of the limits of campaign expenditure; not to the end of tax exemptions, which aim to recognize the public utility function of the parties, and we do not want to see it denied. This is because parties are fundamental to democracy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u36	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when the debate is over, I would like to say that the CDS will make all proposals from all the parliamentary groups that have presented them on behalf of a greater approach between citizens and greater transparency in political life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u39	We shall approve, we shall make all possible, without exception. But let's talk about the legitimacy of the one who set the example. When more money is taxed, when the IMI of the citizens increases, political parties cannot, on behalf of this transparency, be left out of this effort that is called upon to the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u40	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u41	It is an example and democracy to be healthy. Mr. João Oliveira has called us from the far right...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u42	It's not coming, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u43	... when the CFP presents a motion to the Congress which, moreover, does the rehabilitation of the Soviet Union and even says that the Soviet Union was right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u44	You have to wash your ears! Or wearing cotton!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u45	And when, somehow, "cleans up" the events of Budapest and Prague that are 60 years old this week? But, Mr, there is one thing that does not fail to hear: we are consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u46	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u47	I will finish, Mr. President. When we ask for an effort — and we did not ask for it, but its government and its majority, increasing the IMI of the Portuguese because of the sun or the sights — we give the example. And there's another thing we've all come to realize: the PCP, when it comes to its property, is the first to run in search of defending the owners. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u48	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u49	Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u50	Mr. President, to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u51	Mr President, there is a tradition that in the legislative agendas it is the parties responsible for marking that close the debates, but this is not the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u52	Mr President, if I may, the schedule was the PSD, which intended to spend as much time as I had the right to.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u53	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u54	Mr President, very briefly, I wanted to say the following to Mr Nuno Magalhães : after all we realize that the CDS project targeted the PCP, and we understand why. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The CFP is indeed an example in this debate. It is an example of those who finance themselves with their own efforts, with the efforts of their militants and do not depend on State subsidies or business favours to finance themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u55	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u56	Mr President, this debate is on the agenda. You know why? Because in this criterion that you have used, which is not ours, we also set an example.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u57	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u58	If we look at what is best for us instead of looking at what is fairer, we do not propose the creation of a tax which will probably force us to pay more taxes, but which we continue to defend, because it is fair, even if we do not get it directly. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u59	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u60	There are great differences between the PCP and the CDS, and this is just one more for your collection! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u61	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 331/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate May 16 as the Day of Scientists ( PS ). To present the draft resolution, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To expect the decisions of Parliament and the Government to be based on knowledge is normal. Only in this way can they aspire to the confidence of the citizens, until many of these decisions come true only in the long term. Today, we realize that most of the challenges in our society require solutions that are in the interface of different areas of knowledge. They demand deep knowledge in different domains, as well as the ability, sensitivity and humility to incorporate other disciplinary areas. The examples are many: how can we predict the impact of artificial intelligence and robotics on employment, education, architecture and security? How can we estimate the effects of energy policy on climate, health, agriculture, food security, migratory flows and emerging conflicts? How do we regulate the effects of globalisation in the various ethics — medical, environmental and social, and on the sustainability of many countries? How can scientific and social advancements, in addition to giving us more years of life, also increase their quality? How to train citizens and societies through culture? Who does not remember a work, a text, a person who changed our way of seeing ourselves and our world? History shows that, in democracy, knowledge is one of the most powerful tools for the construction of dynamic societies in which citizens feel more realized, i.e., freer, autonomous and bold, but also more inclusive than the other and shows that the way we get to that knowledge seems very similar in virtually all creative domains. It always starts with doubts and questions—when incongruence is evident—then they imagine answers, more or less out of the box, and multiple attempts to validate these answers follow, with solutions that can even answer questions never asked before. This process seems to be universal, from natural sciences to social and human, even when we give these answers different names: some call it hypotheses, other narratives, other stories. What characterizes the scientists involved in this process is their passion, dedication and perseverance. They are therefore respected, even when they are uncomfortable or disagree with their colleagues. Until the 1970s these scientists were undervalued in our country. There were few and their job opportunities were scarce. For centuries, many were forced to emigrate so that their creativity would be recognized. Today, fortunately, it is consensual to the idea that these women and men have an undeniable role in our future and to place Portugal on the international scene. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One of the main workers of this transformation was José Mariano Gago. It was he who introduced international assessments, created Viva Science, today imitated by this outside world, supported all areas of knowledge, fivefolded funding for science and decisively influenced European science policy. For all these reasons, as well as for their intelligence, persistence, human qualities and for all they could still have done, we have chosen the day of their birth to honor the thousands of "explorers" who continue to advance the frontiers of knowledge. We propose that May 16th be recognized as the Day of Scientists. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u63	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the initiative of the Socialist Party, which today brings us here the proposal for the creation of the Scientific Day. We do not deny, on the contrary, we know and know, the role science has played over the centuries against obscurantism, progress and development. Portugal was no exception. We know the difficulties of scientific career, of the world of science, which is not a problem of the 21st century, is not a problem of the 20th century, it has been a problem of centuries. We look at science and have a vision about science and the scientific career as the area of those who bring us a critical spirit with more wisdom and progress. We do not forget, even in the 20th century, the role played by the Academy against the New State and the struggle for simply having the right to produce science, democracy producing knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u66	We also had a revolution in the country in 1974, which was a fundamental framework for a different reading on the role of science, on the role of knowledge and on the role that this science has in building a modern and democratic state. We cannot, too, make it clear and, in this debate, the difficulties that science and scientists are still going through in the country today. The problem of precariousness that exists today for scientific researchers in Portugal is not a minor problem and has been dragging for decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u68	The question of precarious scholarships, which are, in fact, a parallel way of diverting scientists from a true scientific career, requires an urgent response which seems to us that it is not yet properly guarded. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u69	The delay in the scholarships, which still last week was announced by the FCT ( Faculty of Science and Technology), is a serious problem and that the Left Block wants to put in this debate. We can't want a scientist's Day today, when, last week, the FCT warned that the scholarships are not awarded in November, but in February. It is a problem that needs to be solved and on which the Left Block has already taken a position in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u70	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u71	I'm done now, Mr. President. We cannot stop talking about the role of science when we live a chronic underfunding problem which, with improvements, needs a broad debate outside and within the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u72	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u73	We will support the creation of the Scientist's Day, but above all, we cannot let this debate say that, for the Left Block, the Scientist's Day is today, but also every day, with more labour rights and more funding. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Laura Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :To be a scientist is to be cunning, is to have the insight into new things, to have the will to discover and work for technological and scientific advancement. It's being persistent and bold. It is seeking to go further, in search of new routes and markets. Portugal today has a wider scientific community, has universities and companies with a strong research component. And this inheritance is due to the national effort made over decades. We agree with the day proposed, the day of the birth of Prof. Mariano Gago, as a public recognition of his dedication to the cause of science and the invaluable service he provided to the Portuguese and Portugal. This is a tribute to which the PSD is associated. But we must remind the PS that it cannot follow strategies previously adopted, that have led the country to bankruptcy and, even, have affected science itself. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u76	Recovering and reverseing the effective de-investment of the system that occurred from 2009 and robusting it from 2013, placing it at the service of Portugal rather than the point of interest, was a difficult task that cannot be put into question. Far from being ideals, the data now published by the IPCTN (National Scientific and Technological Potential Survey) show that there has been a significant increase in human resources dedicated to research and science. They are more than 4500 researchers in 2015 compared to 2010. These data also show that, even during the peak of the economic and financial crisis, there was a concern in placing more public resources in research and development. It is necessary to continue this recovery, a recovery that does not coincide with nice numbers in an Excel, nor with the anemia of economic growth to which the development model advocated by the current government has condemned us. We remind the PS that it is not enough to hyperbolize the initial total allocations for FCT in investment budgets, and it is important that we check their implementation. And I'm not saying this by any chance, sirs. Members: the difference between the total appropriation and the executed in 2009 was less than EUR 200 million and, if we analyze the funds executed in the 2007 - 2010 triennium, the period with the highest ever appropriations, and the 2011 - 2013 triennium, in the full programme period of assistance, we found that the difference in the average value of the money actually applied to the system was only EUR 8 million. The PS cannot say itself a defender of scientific employment when it supports and approves the suspension of medical programmes in business and ends with the investment with the FCT investigator, replacing it with a regime that researchers themselves recognize as the most penalizer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u77	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u78	I'm done now, Mr. President. Defending science is promoting international competitiveness, attracting and keeping the best in Portugal. We support this initiative so that the National Scientific Day will be another contribution to enhancing the hard work of these professionals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u79	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has today proposed the consecration of the Scientific Day, choosing for the efemeride on May 16, as it has already been said, the date of the birth of the former Minister of Science, Prof. Mariano Gago. Along the calendar of commemorative dates, we have found that there are already several other ephemerals dedicated to science, since this week, the International Week of Open Access, during which there have been very varied initiatives to raise awareness of science, but also, on the next day 10, the World Day of Science for Peace and Development, promoted by UNESCO, and still, on the next day 24, two other ephemerals, the World Day of Science that aims « to enhance the role of science for human development, as well as to highlight great names of science, place challenges for the future and instigate the taste for science in the newer generations». on the same November 24th, also celebrated the National Day of Scientific Culture, established in Portugal, in 1996, exactly by Prof. Mariano Gago, on the occasion of the celebration of the anniversary of Rhomulo de Carvalho, professor of Physics and Chemicals, as you know, responsible for promoting science teaching and scientific dissemination. in the public news of November 24, 1996, Prof. Mariano Gago said that this day should become a privileged moment, every year, of balance, reflection and action on the role of knowledge in our future. Having said this, the CDS-PP has nothing to oppose the institution of a new dedicated day of science, signaling the relevant role of scientists in the construction of the knowledge society, which we all advocate, and which needs, as has already been said, of timely and applied investment both in human resources and in material means. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u81	We would also like to have one day, May 31, dedicated to the brothers, to signal the social value of fraternity and family solidarity, but there was not in this House the same openness and benevolence and the proposal for the creation of that day was plunged. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u82	Anyway, we welcome the fact that there is another day dedicated to science. The symbolic value is already gained, the noun value is more difficult, it is to be determined and, for him, we will surely all contribute. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome all Portuguese scientists who contribute with their work to meet national needs in the various spheres of economic and social activity, how often under conditions of great precariousness. Indeed, it has not yet been given a full response to a significant part of the workers of the national scientific and technological system who maintain with the institution where they work a relationship based on precarious links, running from stock exchange, from project to project, 10, 15, 20 years ago, without any protection or rights, when they are providing permanent needs of the institutions. This is an unacceptable form of precariousness and must be a priority for intervention. Because, for the CFP, this is a priority, we have already presented in this Parliament a bill aimed, essentially, at replacing the current stock exchange regime with work contracts that guarantee an effective link between the investigator and the research centre where he works, admitting that this process can be carried out in a gradual manner. We also presented a parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 55 / 2016 of 29 August so that limitations on the integration of doctoral researchers present in the so-called Decree-Law into laboratories and other public bodies can be eliminated, because it is, in fact, far from having been given answers to the questions with which these professionals and the SCTN themselves (National Scientific and Technological System) are confronted. from here we also greet those scientists who, not finding decent working conditions in their country, were forced to forced emigration, having as the only option to take the knowledge acquired here to other countries. With this qualified emigration, which spread out the world, experience and knowledge were exported, so necessary for the development and progress of Portugal, at zero cost, to the countries that received them. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these were political options taken by successive governments, with particularly severe consequences during the PSD/CDS government, which invested in scientific knowledge, devalued the work of scientists and urged them to leave Portugal, on a path of dismantling the national scientific and technological potential and a logic of subalternization of science and technology as a structural element of the development and progress of a country and a people. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order for all scientists to be recognized every day, the precariousness of their working bonds can be nothing more than a bad memory of the past. To this end, the CFP reiterates its firm determination to continue to beat itself by improving the working conditions of scientific workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u85	Completed the assessment of draft resolution No 331 / XIII ( 1. a ), we will move to the following point, with the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.o 264 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July establishing the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from national territory ( BE) and 240 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reposition of limits on the expulsion of foreign nationals from national territory ( Fourth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for entry, stay, exit and removal of aliens from national territory ) ( CFP ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is our duty to promote and defend human rights in the most difficult situations, today we will courageously face the concrete lives of so many men and women working in Portugal with a contract of work, discount for the social security of all of us, want here to live with dignity and ask for their regularized situation and the only response they receive from the State is months of silence, non-service and, suddenly, change of the administrative requirements they had met scrupulously. The chance of these people, of so many men and women, is that they are not millionaire candidates for a golden visa; they are people who work in the works, in the olive trees, in the greenhouses and who are disregarded by services that decide about it, arbitrarily. For years, the regularization of the situation of these people in Portugal could be done through their legal entry into the Schengen area and a contract of employment, but only this year have three offices of the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ) with logic and contradictory requirements between themselves. However, the SEF counters take months to sign a service and when it finally happens they inform the applicants that the criteria have changed, that one more document is needed or another has lost validity. The SEF lacks human resources and those who exist, especially the administrative frameworks, lack recognition of their career. For then there is the lucidity to respond quickly and effectively to these demands. What is not entirely acceptable, in the light of a culture of respect for human rights, is that immigrants are left in a situation of despair, hostages of discretionary administration, being held by all kinds of abuse at work or in public services, prevented, in practice, from travelling to see their relatives, because if they leave national territory they risk being refused to return because they are still in an irregular situation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Block of the Left brings to this Assembly of the Republic the proposal that these requests for regularization for foreign citizens who pursue a subordinate or independent professional activity in Portugal cease to be a discretionary faculty of the SEF and become the subject of an ordinary procedure, the deadlines, rights and guarantees of appeal being transparent and governed by the Code of Administrative Procedure. A just and sensible law, here is our proposal for the human rights of all to be truly respected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u87	To present the PCP bill, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to start by greeting immigrants who are protesting this afternoon at the Assembly of the Republic against the unjust laws governing their lives. The PCP bill that we are discussing today proposes the replacement of limits to the application of the accessory penalty of expulsion to foreign citizens, which was in force until the last amendment of the law carried out in the past legislature. Until 2012, foreign citizens who had been born in national territory or who had lived here since they were 10 years old, as well as those who had minor children to reside in Portugal on whom they exercised fatherly power and whom they ensured support and education, could not be expelled from Portugal after they were sentenced. From 2012 onwards, with a bad initiative of the PSD and the CDS-PP, due to the legislative amendment carried out, citizens were able to be expelled from the national territory under such conditions, on the basis of such vague criteria as being able to pose a threat to the interests or dignity of the Portuguese State or could unduly interfere in the exercise of political participation rights reserved for national citizens. Thus, simple participation in a demonstration came to justify expulsion. The introduction of these limitations has led to situations of deep injustice. Any citizen who commits any illegal in national territory must be punished in accordance with the penalties provided for in Portuguese criminal law, which includes the accessory penalty of expulsion. However, it does not make any sense that a citizen born in Portugal or who has been trained in Portugal since he was a child, or who has minor children in Portugal and who remain here, may be expelled to countries with whom he has no connection, and may leave in Portugal children who will thus be unfairly penalized. Citizens who have all their family roots in Portugal must be tried and punished in Portugal for the crimes they commit. It makes no sense that, with the discretionary invocation of security reasons, the Portuguese State has the right to expel citizens to countries with which they have no other relationship other than a formal link of nationality, which does not correspond to the reality of life. On the other hand, the expulsion of citizens who leave minor children in Portugal leads to a penalty that has no justification and is deeply inhumane. It is therefore justified in the view of the CFP that the law of foreigners is restored in its drafting prior to the changes in 2012. this wording did not result in any threat to our country and the new writing resulted, yes, in situations of tremendous injustice, which is important to prevent. Similarly, we will vote in favour of the bill submitted by BE. The Portuguese State should do its utmost to combat the most serious social problem linked to immigration, which is the maintenance of illegal situations of people living and working in Portugal. The illegality to which many workers and their families are condemned by legislation that closes the door to regularization of their situation puts these citizens in a situation of great fragility, without labour and social rights and subject to the arbitraryness of employers, who unscrupulously exploit these situations to lower wage levels and thus escape their social obligations. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u89	For an intervention by the PSD, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to immigration and its policies, the principle guiding our legislation is the principle of demand. Admission requirements, not because we have any prejudices about immigrants and immigration, but only because it will be possible to ensure the decent integration of immigrants. This is the humanist principle that has guided all our legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u92	What would open borders, more than has already been opened, without this requirement? It would be to create conditions to come to our country eventually live worse than they would live in the countries from which they come. If we want more immigrants to live with us equally — and that is what we want, immigrants to live with us equally equally — then take care of the entries rigorously, because it will be possible to continue to live in a country where immigrants are welcome and it is also possible to live in a country where there are no racist movements or parties or xenophobic movements. Let's do everything to keep things going.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u94	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the border, a very tenuous frontier between opening up the possibility of entering more immigrants and creating the conditions for them to be properly integrated and to have a dignified life. The initiatives presented by the PCP and the Left Block seek greater openness. No one denies that this is a will of everyone, as long as there are conditions for it, but these initiatives say nothing about how our country creates conditions for this integration with dignity. We do not totally reject any of the initiatives, because they both have a merit, which is generosity. But generosity is not just what governs politics. There is a more important picture, which is reality. These initiatives need reflection and deep reflection. within the Commission, for example, hearings were not held to associations working with refugees, associations working with immigrants, security forces working every day with immigrants, e.g. the SEF and other criminal police bodies. It is important to have this vision as a whole. in this sense, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I appeal to you, these two diplomas need to be seriously reflected in the spirit of our legislation on immigrants, which is the spirit of the principle of humanism. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u95	For an intervention by the PS, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the immigrants present in the plenary and, of course, also the proponents of legislative initiatives. I would like to tell you that on the Socialist Party's part on immigration policies, we have indeed a great heritage. In fact, Law No. 23 / 2007 is considered, at European and international level, a law with a great humanist matrix, a law that deserved great consensus in this House and that was preceded by a great involvement of the whole associative tissue. And so it should be. Whenever we talk about immigration policies, we have to have a broad basis to basically produce these kinds of legislative options. I would also like to say that, for the Socialist Party, immigration and its policies have always been seen as a source of social cohesion and we always advocate public policies of integrative, inclusive immigration, promoters of equal opportunity and intercultural dialogue. Finally, policies that have always based on the dignity of the human person, constitutional principle in the light of which the other constitutional rights are interpreted. It is also in line with these priorities and policies that Portugal, over the years, has deserved one of the best places in the international ranking in we have policies for reception and integration. Therefore, it has been a great way, a great journey, which has not been interrupted, previously consolidated, over the years. I must also tell you that at present this policy of reception and integration is clear in the view that we have for the reception of refugees, where we wanted to go far beyond the quota that would be destined for Portugal. with regard to the amendments implemented in 2012, with Law No. 29 / 2012, what happened was that here, in this Chamber, some concerns, some doubts, in order to look at the debate of freedoms and rights versus the security issues which have also worsened in the European Union. on the part of the Socialist Party, in relation to the proposals which have been equated here today, I would like to say to the Left Block that, despite the reservations we have and the formulation that we understand needs to be improved, we are available to improve some of these reservations, given that your proposals may collide with the Code of Visas, with rules that are in the Schengen acquis, in the acquis communautaire, and that come into areas of exclusive competence of the European Union. We must also look at the issue of regularization before social security, because we know that registration is not the same as regularization, for the impacts it has on central administration, of course, and for the issue of the promise of a contract of work that is not the same as a contract of work and that this also has implications for the survival of people themselves. That is to say, there are a number of doubts that we need to dissipate in the field of expertise so that we can find a balance and a link between what is the national dimension and what is the European dimension of these policies that relate to freedom of movement. with regard to the draft law of the Communist Party, what they propose is the reprisination of the original writing of 2007, in which we review ourselves. In fact, we closely follow the opinion of the Advocates' Order and the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, since this formulation is closer to constitutional jurisprudence and obeys the constitutional principle of unity of the family and the ties of the territory. Therefore, we are available to, as a specialist, look at the issue of compulsory withdrawal of an administrative nature — which is not covered by your proposal, only the judicial decision of expulsion — and, I think, we will have conditions for, in the specialty, a debate of consensus, of balance, so that we continue to be a host country, which integrates and looks at immigrants with a human face, the human face that has always been the face of the policies of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u97	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us debate today in this Chamber two amendments to the so-called « law of foreigners », presented by the Left Block and the PCP, which with different objectives will try to change matters that were already established with some serenity. And it is funny to see both the Bloc and the CFP tear down their clothes and make a great voice in this matter, when we know that both bills will go down again to the Commission without a vote, because one cannot understand this debate. It's the custom, we're already used to it, but I wouldn't like to let that go. in a very synthetic way, what does the PCP want to do in this law? The CFP intends that foreign citizens, who have a family in Portugal or who have always lived in Portugal, on matters of public policy or national security, may not be expelled from Portugal — that is what the CFP wants. The CDS understands that this issue has to be seen very modestly, because, in matters of public policy or national security, it can make sense to expel a person from the country, depending on the circumstances, and this is assessed on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, this must be seen with great calm, not forming into the law something which will, in practice, make it impossible for a citizen to be expelled. And this has to be casuistic, which is why the law should not change, without more, in this sense. Moreover, there is Community harmonisation legislation in this regard. It is clear that the CFP does not want to pay attention to it, but it is important to say that this amendment should not be made without further delay. The Left Block aims to institutionalize a process of legalization of irregular immigrants in the so-called « law of foreigners », thus making a regular and ordinary process of obtaining residence permits for the exercise of professional activity. In other words, today it is required that you enter national territory legally and the Left Block is sufficient that you have entered any kind of visa in the European space and that you can therefore remain working here. Now, we also disagree with this thesis of the Left Block. And not because we do not understand the phenomenon of immigration in the light of the new reality, which we all know is a pressing and worrying reality, or because we are not concerned about the issue — we have, we have a lot of concern about the matter. We are concerned about the phenomenon and I fear - I have said it in a number of ways - and that is a point of no doubt. We also know that the European Union is not giving the answer to this phenomenon. But we believe that we should do so in an extended consensus with Europe and we need Europe for that. We are therefore not available for thigh solutions, with half integrations and with hypothetical uncontrolled entry of immigrants into national territory. Therefore, we are also not available to make something happen that sometimes the current majority wants, that is to do demographic policy only at the expense of immigrants. The CDS has very valid proposals on demographics and you have dropped them. So let us be consistent: immigrants need, yes. There may be a demographic policy with immigrants, but it is not only at the expense of immigrants that a demographic policy can be done. That is also why you should be looking.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u99	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u100	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. Finally, the missing question. They asked the SEF what do you understand from these two legislative amendments? Apparently not. And it was necessary to ask why it is the SEF that has an obligation to carry out this control of the entry of foreigners into Portugal. They asked the SEF what is missing from the SEF to better welcome immigrants? They asked the SEF what is needed for the SEF to do better in the reception policy that it has to do? They didn't ask. They didn't strictly ask anything! If you don't like the SEF, take it off. But be serious about that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u101	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to record at the moment of the debate the very broad support that this concern we have brought to the Assembly of the Republic has been deserved by the various parliamentary groups. And, of course, on the part of the Left Block there is all the availability for, in the field of specialty, we are going to find the strictest solutions that are in line with the basic principle of respect for people who are looking for Portugal to have a dignified life and who, on the part of the Portuguese State, are receiving an outrageous answer. This is our position. Mr. Fernando Negrão said that there is a risk of opening borders here. Mr President, in fact, Portugal has opened borders for these people and the truth is that now that they have been allowed to enter, now that these people are working in Portugal, now that these people are discounting for social security, Portugal keeps them in a limbo of legality, keeps them in a situation of total fragility and does not want to give them an answer. That, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, is that it is a lame solution, that is a solution that is not in accordance with the principle of respect for human rights. By the way, one last note, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Fernando Negrão said that we should have a principle of demand here. I couldn't agree more. We must have a principle of demand. And in that demand, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the best thing the Portuguese state has to do is be demanding on its own and, to this extent, give the services dealing with these matters the indications so that they have a prompt and fair response. That is why this is not a problem of good will from the Administration. This is a matter of law, and the law has to be clarified. It is not another purpose of this left block bill. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u103	The law must be fulfilled!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u104	With no further inscriptions, the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 264 and 240 / XIII ( 1. ( a). Mrs. Members, we will continue with the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 526 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a new model of State financing for the social and solidarity sector with regard to the use of social services and equipment ( CDS-PP ) and 525 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a new form of updating the values of the cooperation agreements with the entities of the social sector ( PSD ). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social solidarity is an integral part of our Portuguese culture. It is long and secular the tradition in which we witness the emergence of aggregations of people around a common goal of assistance and support to the most disadvantaged, development of the human person and their living conditions. Often without lucrative intentions, they were developing and structuring with increasingly professional means and able to respond efficiently and in proximity to those who really need it most. It is the institutions that, on the ground, often affirm themselves with greater capacity to respond to the needs of the most needy, from support in childhood, to support in old age, to follow up and overcome the most fragile in the community. Several were the forms that were gaining, from associivism to foundations, through IPSS and cooperatives. The CDS, as a democratic-Christian party and humanist profile, recognizes the importance of the social economy and the essential role it plays in society. in this sense, support for the third social sector, in its various and varied aspects, has always been a priority of our policies. It was following this vision that during the previous government we took several initiatives for these institutions. But, despite this careful and effortful work carried out by the PSD/CDS government, we recognize that much more needs to be done, because this is always a work to be improved. We therefore present this initiative which we are discussing today, where we recommend to the current Government that : evaluate the actual cost of social responses, in particular those relating to the social protection of older people; implement, at national level, a system of evaluation of social economy organizations, through the creation of methods of assessing the social impact of developed policies and the results obtained; create a new model of State financing to social and solidarity institutions, which takes account of the characteristics of families and positively differentiate those with the lowest resources; create incentives for social economy institutions to develop networking and partnership work, sharing services and resources; value institutions that develop innovative initiatives and social entrepreneurship with impact on the community; publicize the needs for the conclusion of new cooperation agreements on the website of the Institute of Social Security. We present these proposals with the consistency of those who, either in opposition or in government, always maintain the defense of the institutions of the third sector, recognizing the essential importance they play in the social responses. We do so in an open and unbiased spirit. It is the Portuguese who will be winning, and it is in this certainty that we feed on the expectation that this House will recognize it and that this proposal will later be implemented by the Government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u106	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The institutions of the social sector, such as mercy, IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and mutualities, spread throughout the territory, play a social and economic role of great importance among the communities in which they are inserted. in an increasingly global and impersonal society, these institutions are of fundamental importance in the care and support of children, young people, the elderly, people with disabilities, finally hundreds of thousands of people who are in a situation of greater frailty. It is therefore fair and necessary to enhance the role played by more than 200 000 women and men who are part of thousands of institutions and who, daily and tirelessly, devote themselves to the Portuguese, especially those who need it most. The PSD has always established relationships of great solidarity, respect and trust with these institutions, stimulating and optimizing their work and their social responses. We treat these institutions as real partners. however, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us not forget that, in order to meet civil society demands, these institutions need financial stability and predictability. It is important to remember that in 2016, for example, more than EUR 1300 million of the State budget is transferred to those institutions through cooperation agreements. This figure represents more than 50 % of the budgets of the majority of these social institutions. But it is necessary to strengthen this stability and to introduce greater predictability in order to enable social institutions to manage effectively and without any attacks on their daily lives. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite all the important and fundamental reforms implemented by the PSD/CDS Government, it is essential that the current Government give a clear sign of support to the institutions of the social economy by creating conditions of financial stability and predictability in a crucial sector of Portuguese society and economy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u108	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mr.Ps Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first question that the draft resolutions of the PSD and the CDS suggest to those who read them carefully, and it is recalled that Mr. Members who now present them are part of the parties who were in the previous government by 2015 that is why you did not at that time implement the proposals they present today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, what you are proposing are not improvements, are basically proposals! Your project even speaks of a new paradigm, and those who left the government less than a year ago cannot speak in a new paradigm without saying "I was not competent in what I did when I was in the government!" [[P.S.'s applause.]] So this is a question that you have to answer: why didn't you do it? But let's look at each of the projects. in the presentation of reasons of the PSD diploma, two statements are made that cannot be made clear. First, he insinuates, because he does not have the courage to say clearly, that the projects within the framework of PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Program ) and the support of POPH (Human Potential Operational Programme) for financing new equipment were irresponsible and caused difficulties to institutions. I challenge someone from the PSD to appoint an institution that publicly says that the support of PARES and the support of the POPH were not fundamental to its sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u111	It also challenges someone from the PSD to deny, in this House, because they did not have the courage to write, that the PARES and POPH programmes were crucial for the country to achieve the goals of the European Union in terms of coverage of day care networks and preschool schools, fundamental in support of families, in support of conciliation and in support of a theme that seems so dear to the PSD and CDS when they are in government, that of birth. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, have the courage to say everything to the end! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But on the part of the PSD another statement is made: they say that in recent years the delays in the payment of agreements have created difficulties for the institutions. Firstly, they are doing — and they can only do — a fault and, secondly, the greater financial difficulty of the institutions in recent years was essentially due to a very simple thing: the increase of various prices, namely that of light and that of food. And another thing: with the increase in unemployment and poverty and the cut-off of the social support that your government has made and supported, these institutions had more requests for help from families, who could pay less and less. Ask the institutions and this will be very clear—it should have been. When the PSD proposes to include in the State budget the values of cooperation money, forget two things: firstly, that these values of cooperation have always been and should continue to be negotiated with the partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u112	That's what we want!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u113	... and this proposal would make this impossible; secondly, that this Government has already negotiated with the partners the amendment of the form of candidacy to the new agreements and will, with the agreement of the partners of the social economy, promote a tender procedure for new agreements and new funding funds. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] And so on, Mr. PSD members, this government honours the tradition of negotiating relations with partners and honours the tradition of defending transparency in the relationship between the state and these institutions, which the PS always defends. As for the draft resolution of the CDS, I can only draw a conclusion: with it, you pass the greatest attestation of incompetence to the former Minister of Labour and Solidarity, that — stop! - it was CDS. You write in the diploma: "in recent years, the reflection on this topic, in which the CDS has always been present..."...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u114	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, why did they not make these amendments when they were in the government which, as I say, are not proposals for detail, are proposals for substance? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u116	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Before we move on to what is stated, I would like to say a few words about who says. The PSD and CDS, which today, with these projects, express their concern about social protection, with older people, with social equipment, were part of the government that has emphasized poverty in Portugal, which has led to the loss of the poorest people 25% of their income and the poverty that has produced in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u118	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u119	As you know, we are talking about a government made up of parties that today express their concern for the elderly and have cut off the solidarity supplement for the elderly to 70,000 people! We are talking about two parties that were part of a government that took 600 workers into social security and put them in requalification and that broke down public services, making it difficult, for example, to protect young people and minors at risk, which is contradictory to the supposed concern that they are here today! We're talking about two parties that kept the family allowance frozen! [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] We are talking about two parties that cut the social income of insertion to tens of thousands of people, not only hindering their insertion, but condemning these people to situations of severe poverty and the absence of any kind of social protection! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, what happened in recent years was a discharacterization of the principles of the social state itself because you wanted to replace the social state with a charity business, which replaces rights for favors. And the Social Emergency Programme was precisely the most disastrous example at this level! [[PSD protests.]] It compares with what happened: the money that withdrew to the social income of insertion was the money that invested in the social canteens, with the results that are known. And with another aggravating: it is that, by undermining social security itself, they have destroyed the capacity of social security to monitor their own protocols with private institutions of social solidarity. And, therefore, the former Government has consistently lived with unacceptable practices, such as those of institutions that have protocols with social security, which have public support and funding, in the waiting lists for households, to pass older people with more income in front of those with less income, because they would like to recruit these people with more income. They are gross violations of the rules of the protocols, of the rule of law, of the principles of social justice, which must preside over the relationship between States and private institutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u120	On the contrary, the Left Block values the social economy, cooperativeism, associationism, the militant and committed effort of so many people who work in private institutions of social solidarity, who deserve our respect, recognition and public support and who deserve the transparency of public competitions for support rather than the arbitraryness of friendship that has so often proliferated during the previous government. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] It is precisely because we value this militancy of the generosity of so many people who work in the private and cooperative sector that we do not accept that the IPSS is instrumentalized against the rights that the State must guarantee and that the IPSS is instrumentalized to weaken the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u121	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u122	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that the suggestion underlying these two projects, second to which the protocols with the IPSSs would be concerned, is wrong; as you know, by the previous Budget, they are not. In addition, it stems from a dangerous assumption, which is the replacement of social rights and citizenship by the idea that it is only to the private who are responsible for the protection of minors, the care of the elderly and the guarantee of these rights. With that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Block doesn't agree. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u123	Mr Diana Ferreira, Member of the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social solidarity institutions have played an important role in responding to a number of social problems that have taken place over the years, which have worsened deeply during the governance of the PSD and the CDS, in particular with regard to poverty and social exclusion, as well as have also taken an important role in responding to the needs felt by the population, particularly with regard to social equipment for children, young people and the elderly. IPSS is often the only response to families that do not have public day care to leave their children, are the only response to families that do not have homes, day centres or other public institutions that provide the proper support to the elderly, are the only response to those who seek support for families with disabilities and who are embarrassed by the shortage and even lack of public response. We recognize the deserved work of these institutions, but we believe that they should not replace the state in a set of social responsibilities, and this has been exactly the way that has been going over the years. State deresponsibility measures have been implemented in fundamental matters, transferring to the IPSS responsibilities that should be guaranteed by the State and often not transferring to the necessary financial means for the fulfilment of these same functions. We remember here, in these two areas, the transfer of public day care centers to the management of IPSS or even the Northern Rehabilitation Centre, an important health equipment that moved to the management of the Holy House of Mercy, in which it was a worsening of the desponsibility of the State. We also recall the situations that the CFP questioned and denounced, especially during the four years of governance of the PSD and the CDS — the parties that today present these initiatives on the institutions of social solidarity — when the IPSS experienced deep difficulties and delays in the transfer of funds and failed to respond to the increased demands on the part of families, associated with the profound worsening of the economic and social situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u125	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we advocate the existence of a network of public services with universal quality and proximity to populations, responding to their needs. We consider the action of these institutions to be of great importance as a complement of public networks in the areas of health, education or social protection, among others, to which the State is constitutionally obliged. Thus, equal access to equipment in a network capable of meeting the needs of the population will be ensured. We have concerns about the difficulties experienced by families who, having no public response, are looking for a set of responses in the IPSS within day care centres, homes or day care centres and who still cannot bear the costs of the responses given by the IPSS. But we understand that the response to families goes through a public network of social equipment, recognizing the complementary character that IPSS can have in this same network, considering its reality of local proximity and even the constitution of these institutions that, in many cases, resulted from the popular and civic organization, precisely because of the lack of public response. The initiatives we are discussing today do not go this way, but they want to pursue a path in which the State is reduced to a minimum social response, at a risk of being replaced by the IPSS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u127	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u128	I shall conclude, Madam President. We reaffirm that it is essential that the State create the necessary public responses to the needs of the population in the areas of health, education and social protection, as well as that it defines its relationship with the private institutions of social solidarity, in respect for the Constitution and in support of the complementary role of these institutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia has the floor of the PSD Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social sector entities, as already mentioned in this Chamber, need stability and predictability. That is what is required of any government. But it's important to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, in practice, do not always have the predictability and stability necessary. The management of the budget of the institutions of the social economy, in particular of mercy and IPSS, depends on 50 % of State transfers. It happens that these transfers do not always arrive in time and time, creating financial constraints, uncertainties and anxiety to those institutions. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of one thing these institutions are certain: they have to keep their jobs, they have to give ready and quality social responses to their users, they have to create conditions for their sustainability. We know well the reality of this sector and the weight that agreements have in their technical and financial structure. It is imperative that the Government negotiate in a timely manner to avoid financial constraints and tightenings. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD presents draft resolution No 525 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) recommending to the Government a new form of updating cooperation agreements with social sector entities — a simple, practical, sound and cost-free measure. The aim of this measure is to: every year, in the process of drawing up the State budget, the Government must negotiate with social sector entities the updating of the values of social valence agreements so that these new values will enter into force at the beginning of each year. This is a cost-free measure but of great importance to the institutions of the social sector, whose existence has only one purpose: social solidarity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u131	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia spoke for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have listened carefully to the criticism, very clearly, that the Socialist Party made to this proposal. The only reference that the Socialist Party, by the voice of Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, made to this proposal was to say that it is substantial. It was the only reference that made to this proposal. All the time the intervention was to criticize the previous government, but when it referred to this proposal it was to say that it was substantial. However, the PS has to choose one of the two speeches: either it has the attitude of those who are normally in the government, that is, it calls for consensus, dialogue, consultation, proposals and appreciation and, therefore, it is consistent with this and approves the diplomas, or it loses time not doing what is most relevant to the Portuguese, which is support for the elderly, children and give truly important answers. at least in that, let us be able to understand ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u133	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u134	Madam President, I would like to ask you the same tolerance that you have given to Members of the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u135	With regard to the other parliamentary groups, I began to warn earlier, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u136	In view of this, I will not waste time talking about the great response the previous government gave to the social sector. Just visit the institutions they recognize. And that's what irritates the left. But there is no interest in a spirit of sectarianism. What matters is that we are able to really approve what is important. That is what is expected of the Socialist Party, and that is what we have, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u137	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us continue with the fifth item on our agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 380 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures contributing to the reduction of costs with fuel ( CFP ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal continues with high energy costs, compared with the other countries of the European Union and the euro area, with serious consequences for family budgets and for the competitiveness of its companies and productive sectors, which happens in all forms of energy, including, of course, liquid fuels, petrol and gas. Nor did the extended period of historically low prices in oil and natural gas mitigated and even lowered those energy costs. This is the result—as the CFP has prevented and often denounced— of the right-wing policy, which privatized, liberalized and segmented the value chains of oil refining, liquidating public companies, which meant delivering production equipment, traders and the energy market in the hands of private monopolies, generally dominated by foreign capital. Thus, the price and access to an essential asset, such as energy, interests and profits of large economic groups, which inevitably monopolize these markets, has been subjected to. The current situation also shows the huge fraud mounted by neoliberalism around the alleged regulatory and controlling activity of the so-called ‘regulating entities’ on these monopolies. It is clear that the enormous failure, if we can say so, of the Competition Authority, of the ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity ) and of ENMC (National Fuel Market Entity) in the defence of public and national interests, but it is also clear that the structural solution to the problem passes and will pass through the public control of this important sector of the national economy. According to the official data for last month, Portugal is the tenth country of the 28th European Union, with the highest average selling price to the public of petrol and the seventh of the 28th of petrol. And prices continue to rise, either in chains or in terms of counterparts. The CFP reaffirms that it is necessary to alleviate the tax burden in this area, but it is unacceptable to continue to leave unaffected the millionaire profits, the millionaire margins of the economic groups of the oil sector. in the current framework, the proposal of the CFP, which we are now presenting, includes three key aspects: firstly, a system for regulating fuel prices that allows not only to limit costs for consumers and businesses but also differentiated schemes for productive sectors, small trucks and taxi sectors ; secondly, the promotion of access to alternative fuels at the level of supply networks, legislation and regulation, the use of natural gas in the road transport of goods and passengers; and finally, the taking of measures promoting scrutiny and control of what is happening on the fuel market, both at national and international level.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u140	It is that the sacrosanct market competition liberalized in this sector in particular, by the way, is actually a matter of faith, is treated as a dogma, but in this case it is far from reality. And, on the very transparency of the processes for fixing so-called « price indices », such as Platts / NWE / Rotterdam or Platts / MED / Lavera, for years the PCP has been alerting for this reality. It's more than time to go to practice! They are concrete and objective proposals, solutions that aim to contribute to an adequate response to this problem which is so meaningful in the skin and portfolio of populations and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u141	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Bureau does not register inscriptions, we can move on to the next item on our agenda. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Joel Sá's PSD Member was registered for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft resolution of the Portuguese Communist Party recommends that the Government introduce the administrative fixation of regulated prices as a mechanism for fixing the maximum price for fuels, with differentiated prices, with the updating of bonuses, with the creation of a green petrol, with the installation of a national gas — compressed natural gas — network, with the strengthening of the GPL network, with the change in the relationship of CNG and LPG vehicles and with the evaluation and resolution of competition problems. Basically, they propose more spending for the state and more planning for the economy, thus creating distortions in the operation of the market already used in the past and leading to high bills for the state. Mr Bruno Dias, is there any money in the next State budget for this proposal that you have tabled or is the CFP accepted by the theory that debts are not to be paid? Mrs. Members, some ideas may be good on the issue of alternative networks, but they should propose their assessment and cost-benefit analysis, rather than simply proposing their adoption. More evaluation is not with PCP! Why not first make an assessment of the low-cost fuel network experience and make improvements? Should we not carry out this analysis before we carry out new experiences that cost the state money? You ignore the work that has been done by the Competition Authority in the matter of assessing, correcting and fixing fuel prices. Why don't you make suggestions for improving the regulator's work processes? Which independent entities do you want to use in your proposal? Is the Competition Authority not independent? Mr President, should the CFP not be concerned about the rate of fuel created by this government or, again, is it only rhetorical?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u143	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u144	For the CFP, does indirect taxes not result in a reduction in income? What is the CFP's position on this rate, a blind rate that covers everyone regardless of their income? Is that how the PCP defends the most deprived? Do you know that outside the large metropolitan areas, workers move to their own car workplaces? Or do you think they're well served by public transport? Question : on the route Barcelos-Braga or Braga-Porto do you think they are well served by public transport? thus, workers see their income reduced. As the people say, « one hand and take the other hand». This rate also harms companies in their competitiveness and profitability, as they are also very affected here, such as taxis, small trucking, small distribution, among many others. Once again, the CFP tries to deceive the Portuguese with a proposal without any consequences. Or the gentlemen. Members of the CFP are not part of the government solution? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u145	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After Mr. PSD's intervention, I only remember that it was the former Minister of Finance who classified certain tax measures as a huge tax increase, and this Minister of Finance was the PSD. On the draft resolution under discussion, we congratulate the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party on bringing this issue to debate. The products derived from oil are, without doubt, very relevant to the processes of development and economic growth, the question of their fundamental price for families and businesses. However, this is an exhausting natural resource and where reserves are to a large extent known and exploited, obliging higher extraction costs and consequently an increase in market prices derived from the international context. On the other hand, environmental sustainability will require the gradual replacement of hydrocarbons with high ecological footprints by clean energy, which will be of increasing importance to electrical mobility, as this Government has rightly advocated. This adds to the need to meet the integration goals of biodiesel — sustainable development requires this! One of the battles of the Socialist Party has been the short-term reduction of the energy bill of families and businesses, which has led to the creation of the social tariff and the professional gas oil regime, measures which have been approved by this Government, in defense of those most needed and also of the Portuguese economy and companies. For this reason, we are next to this draft resolution on alternative energies, such as the strengthening of the LPG network and the creation of a compressed natural gas network, and the fact that there are conditions for liquefied natural gas to be an alternative for the transport of goods. We recognize that some advances have already been made, such as the creation of low-cost markets, but there is still much to do to regulate these types of markets. We recognize that there are still legitimate doubts about the competition market in the sector and we believe that a global and independent audit would be a good measure. However, we cannot defend the administrative fixation of prices, because, in addition to being a violation of the principles of free competition, which we are fighting for, it would tend to generate tariff deficits. Indeed, the administrative fixing of prices means that consumers are forced to pay this measure afterwards, particularly when the price of oil is low. We reiterate our willingness and commitment to debate the regulation of fuel prices in order to make it stronger and capable of intervention in the sector. As in the State budget, we will be speaking about natural gas, and I will end my intervention with the attempt to work and be willing to discuss this issue of regulating fuel markets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u147	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP is today concerned about the increase in fuel in Portugal and, moreover, has good reason to be concerned, because Portuguese families and companies see their costs being greatly compounded by the increase in the price of fuels. To get an idea, today, in a 50 l tank of gas oil, we are spending more 12, 5 € than we spent on January 25, 2016. Portugal today has one of the most expensive fuels in Europe, much because of the tax burden it imposes on fuels.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u149	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u150	In addition, the highest weight element in the final selling price to the public of petrol and gas oil is the tax burden. in the second quarter of 2016, as well as the increase in the tax on petroleum products approved by the PCP, BE and PS, the tax burden represents on average 67 % of the price of gasoline and 60 % of the price of road gas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u151	That's not true! This was not voted in the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u152	Mr Bruno Dias, I am not much to answer to apart,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u153	You don't like telling the truth much!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u154	... but I remind you that in the State budget the CDS presented a proposal to eliminate the increase in ISP. You did not vote in favour, and that weighs you on your conscience. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u155	That's fake! It was the government's office!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u156	But, I was saying, when we compare the price of fuels today before tax and after tax application we notice many differences from the European average. Consider the case of gasoline: before taxes, the average price of gasoline in Portugal is 21. the most expensive in Europe ; after taxes it is 11. the most expensive, that is, after taxes we lost competitiveness to 10 countries in Europe and lost to 10 countries in family income. We cannot forget that for this tax burden has contributed, and much, the rise of 6 cents/l of IPS in February this year, which I reaffirm is due to the PCP, BE and PS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u157	And that, yes, is currently withdrawing competitiveness from our economy and also withdrawing income from families in Portugal. In fact, if we see today the ISP's statement went up about 45% against the past budget, and surely the increase of 6 cents/l also has to do with it. We know that the Socialist Party, for example, brings here ideas, which we do not follow, like that of the administrative fixation of prices, brings other ideas that may be interesting to discuss, like, for example, to extend the alternative networks of LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) and CNG (Compressed Natural Gas), brings interesting ideas about the control of competition, but should bring here the most interesting idea of all: eliminate this increase of 6 cents/l in the ISP, because this is what you are doing today that every Portuguese, when he will supply the deposit of his car, pay plus 3 €, directly because of the responsibility of the PCP, and you on that say nothing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u158	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming the CFP initiative on this subject. This is an initiative that is indisputable today, not only because of the progressive and successive increase in fuel prices but also because of the non-existent rules, which allow these successive increases to take place without the due framework and without a regulation of the market price of fuels, which happens in many other markets but which does not indeed happen in the case of the fuel market. We all know that, although there is a regulatory entity that should monitor, for example, carteling operations on the prices of the fuel market, the regulatory entity is perfectly incompetent to regulate and to intervene on carteling, on the cartel movements occurring on the national market, in terms of fuel prices. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this intervention and this initiative have all political relevance, because it intends to introduce market regulation rules which the national fuel authority itself is unable to do. from there the opportunity and the particular greeting to the draft resolution presented by the CFP. It is obvious that, from a technical point of view, it is necessary to study a little better the concrete measures which may constitute the direction for regulation and the definition of prices in particular. I believe that, as a draft resolution, it is an initiative that, according to the principle of maximum price regulation, will certainly be open to a more detailed technical analysis and that it has the intervention of other actors, which, from an institutional point of view, can make valuable contributions to the definition, in particular, of which methodology to be used for that maximum price regulation. Another aspect which I cannot but underline from the draft resolution — in fact, I believe that this should be the first point in the draft resolution — concerns its third part, which proposes the realization of a comprehensive and independent audit of the conduct and regulation of the fuel market itself. In fact, the conclusion on the need to regulate maximum prices I believe that it is, to a large extent, associated with the need for this global and independent audit of the fuel market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u160	And end the tax or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u161	...because I am convinced that this audit will demonstrate the need to intervene more deeply and systematically in the process of regulating this global audit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u162	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u163	I'm done now, Madam President. The second point, which concerns a similar initiative with the European Union, I believe that it can complete this comprehensive audit process on this subject. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u164	For a new intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Members of the PSD and the CDS say this proposal, regarding the expenditure on the state of the measures we propose, which Muhammad did not say about the bacon! You have forgotten to notice that, while the PSD and CDS policy has already shown the "bright" results it has brought to the people, to small businesses, the sacrifices they have been making years to finance the economic groups,... [[PSD protests.]] ... the fact is that in recent years the following is true: 310 million euros of profits in 2013 ; EUR 373 million in 2014 ; EUR 639 million of profits in 2015, i.e. a net output growth of 71 %. [[PSD protests.]] Who paid for all this, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? It was the population! It was the small companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u166	And the tax? Is it over or isn't it over?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u167	The gentlemen. Do Members now appear to speak in the evaluation of alternative fuels? Oh, my God! At this hour, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! ... after so many years, so many studies, so much talk, the ladies. Are Members not ashamed to come again with studies and evaluations of alternative fuels?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u168	And the tax?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u169	So, what has been done in these years of government? And as for the prices and the increase of the ISP that Mr Mota Soares, as Minister, approved in the Government and sent to the Assembly of the Republic, which was approved in the pseudo-green taxation proposed by his Government and approved by the majority PSD and CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u170	Tell me how the PCP voted?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u171	... with a vote against the PCP, which still people are paying today? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] With regard to regulated prices, with regard to differentiated prices and energy policy itself, I limit myself to recommend... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u172	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u173	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, I am just recommending that they report the CFP project, in which the regulatory mechanism we propose puts the reference on the international market, having an impact only if your sacrosanct market appears, and there, indeed, the mask falls, and there, yes, we must take concrete action. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u174	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next point on our agenda, with the joint discussion of draft resolutions 524 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — because of the need to solve environmental problems in the Formosa River and for the suspension of the demolitions announced in the Barrier Islands ( The Greens ), 498 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of new demolitions, the dialogue with populations and the recognition of the economic, social and cultural value of the population nuclei of the slums of the Formosa River ( BE ), 521 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the end of the demolition process in the boreholes of the Formosa River ( PCP ) and 530 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around the requalification and enhancement of the Formosa River ( PS ). To introduce this topic and to present the draft resolution of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If you remember, a short time ago here in the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, the Greens said with determination that they would urgently have to bring the issue of demolition on the islands of the Formosa River to the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, and here we are fulfilling the commitment we have made. More, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not this initiative that the Greens scheduled for today, October 27, would be taking up administrative possession of housing for demolition of local communities on these barrier islands. Thanks to this schedule, this adoption of administrative power has been postponed and what the Greens are asking all parliamentary groups is that we make a resolution here and we can take a serious decision on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, nature conservation against populations has been in use since the 1980s. Nature conservation makes sense in the logic of the preservation of natural resources and the positioning of sustainable populations and activities around the needs of these populations and the needs of the preservation of natural resources. This is how the Brundtland report has been said since 1987. More, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is precisely when decisions are controversial that it makes sense to promote the collaborative participation of populations. It is not to make decisions by force and then impose them, and it is precisely in those situations in which collaborative participation is called for decision-making. That is not what the former Government has done on this issue, and that is not what, with the arrangements made, this Government is doing in relation to this issue of demolition of dwellings on the Isles of the Formosa River. More: there are things that people don't understand. For the time being, this lack of participation and some lack of transparency around the processes and, on the other hand, the number of environmental problems in the Formosa River, particularly at the level of untreated sewage, at the level of dune erosion, given the construction of springs and spores that have contributed a great deal to this situation and for which there are no prospects for an integrated solution. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom the Greens would like to hear once again the parliamentary groups, even for all that the population has brought to the Assembly of the Republic, because we have an obligation to make a decision so that the Government will be prompted by this Assembly of the Republic at least to take account of the collaborative participation of the populations, so that it can be a decision taken to benefit the conservation of nature and to benefit the small activity and populations of the Algarve. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u176	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I address a very special greeting to the elements of the SOS Ria Formosa movement and the associations of the barrier islands that are here in the galleries, to watch our work, and also to the populations, islands of these islands that, with their example of fighting for the right to dignity and justice, have demonstrated to the country that is worth fighting. It is necessary to combine the environmental defense of the Formosa River with the interests of the resident populations. The protection, conservation and exploitation of the Formosa River is not incompatible with a regulated and responsible human occupation, as they complement themselves in a necessary and sustainable balance. The appreciation and requalification of the Formosa River, in order to preserve its very rich natural value, the quality of water and the activity of fishers and wildlife residents, must be guided by an integrated plan that includes an effective fight against pollution, with adequate dredgings, and the adoption of complementary measures to combat coastal erosion. But what did Polis society command from various governments? It started with the easiest, attacking the weakest. He intended to demolish hundreds of homes, more than 500 during the PSD / CDS government, an authentic demolition of the government and its Prime Minister, now Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, Government of sad and bad memory. I wanted to demolish more than 500 houses of first and second homes without dialogue, back and against the populations. Therefore, these associations have stood up and fought against abuse and prepotence and their homes continue and will continue to stand. These and other struggles fought in the Algarve, as well as many others that broke out from north to south of Portugal, Madeira and the Azores for four years of obscurantism and arbitrariness, have contributed strongly to the defeat of the PSD and CDS a year ago, and that is why they no longer rule today. It intended that the government, through Polis, still demolished 102 homes of the Farol and Hangares nuclei on the island of Culatra. It is no longer 81, as the Minister of the Environment, stubbornly stated, that the Government has decided, although late, to dialogue with the associations and postpone the administrative possession of dwellings planned for today, as well as to save 19 houses of fishermen and seafarers. For now, common sense has prevailed, and it is to welcome the attitude of the government. And now the President of the Police Society has also resigned. It's small victories, but it's not enough. As the draft resolution presented here in the Left Block, among other proposals, it is imperative that the Government immediately suspend the whole process of new demolition and adopt a dialogue with the current parties with a view to reaching a compromise between the parties. The nuclei of the Farol and Hangars also have their history and must be recognized as such. The two populations are also people. There is nothing to be expected from the PS and CDS; now on the PS side it is expected that this time we will vote in favour of our draft resolution. Otherwise, and if the government advances stubbornly with the demolition, it remains only for the islands of the barrier to persist and redouble the struggle with courage, determination and rebellion. The Left Block will be at your side and, as a great fighter for freedom and social justice has well said, Mexican Ricardo Flores Magón, «it is not the rebels who create problems in the world, it is the problems of the world that create the rebels». « Rebellion is life and submission is death». from here soon homage to the islanders, sending all my solidarity and saying that today too « I am island! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u178	I have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first words are addressed to the local communities of the islands of the Formosa River, particularly those in the galleries. Greeting words for the intense struggle they develop in defense of their homes. [[PCP applause.]] It was this brave struggle that defeated the intention of the former PSD/CDS government to demolish housing in the islands of the Formosa River, a process that aims to expel local communities to deliver this valuable natural heritage to the great private interests to explore it for their benefit. Recently, the dwellings of the barrier islands of the Formosa River were once again under threat of demolition, with the sending of notifications for the administrative takeover of possession and consequent coercive demolition. What is required in the Formosa River are interventions to re-qualify the lagoon system, to protect the coastal shore against erosion processes, to support fishing and seafood activities and, of course, to re-qualify the built-in areas of the barrier islands. It's not demolition! It is not the expulsion of local communities! It is not acceptable for the Government to move forward to demolition after it has made a commitment to stop the demolition. Yes, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS has made a commitment to stop the demolition. In March 2015 the PS voted in favour of a PCP draft resolution recommending that the previous Government immediately cease the demolition. From that time onwards to the legislative elections in the Algarve, PS leaders, autarchs and deputies expressed their opposition to the PSD government's intention to demolition in the Formosa River. During the election campaign, they promised to stop the demolition. They participated in a demonstration against the demolition, posting posters, where it reads: « The promised is due », « The given word is honored». Now, the PS is reluctant to honour that commitment. It brings here today a draft resolution which, despite recognizing the existence of the nuclei of the Farol and the Hangars — a step that we consider positive and that goes against the proposal of the CFP — maintains in its point 1, the possibility of realising demolition on the islands of the Formosa River. We recall that last February the PS had already presented a draft resolution opening the door to demolition, with the consequences known. After seven months, the machines were ordered to advance to the barrier islands to demolish 81 houses. What is required is that the PS honor the word given. The promise of stopping demolition can only mean stopping demolition, and nothing more. They voted in favour of the draft resolution of the CFP, which, without ambiguities or subterfuges, proposes the end of the demolitions, the recognition of the built nuclei of the barrier islands and the requalification of these nuclei,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u181	...because the PCP honours its commitments. What we said before the elections is exactly what we stand for today. What we say in the Algarve is exactly what we do here in the Assembly of the Republic. And that's why people know they can count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u182	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Graça.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet the petitioners, the children of Culatra, the Hangars, the Farol and the island of Faro, here present. The human occupation of the barrier islands is over 200 years old. Many of these families, of their descendants, moved to the Formosa River to work in fishing, in the tuna and sardines of King D. Carlos, still in the 19th century. It's humble people, working people. The construction of these houses was not made in hiding but in light of the day, often under the guidance of the authorities themselves. Long before the country discovers the goodness of the baths of the sea and the sun, these families already lived in these places, today paradises, yes, but at this time, believe, unwelcome. How many of those who point their finger on the human occupation of the slums would be willing to live decades without light, no water, no sewage, no medical assistance, facing in winter the bad weather and half-hour crossings, rain and cold, to take the children by boat to school in Olhão or Faro. Don't! These people are not, nor have they ever been, illegal. The former government, the PSD and the CDS intended to go over history and demolish all dwellings. To demolish all houses was, after all, the only idea that the right had for the Formosa River. We had to stop the demolition, and we stopped. They stopped the people with their struggle, where we were socialists, next to them. Today, we opened the dialogue by listening to and listening to the voice of the residents' associations, the autoarchs, the President of the City Hall of Olhão. The Ministry of the Environment has developed an intervention proposal which is a balanced commitment between the protection of the environment and the human presence and traditional fishing activities in the Formosa River. at the center of Culatra, the fishermen, 200 years later, will finally see licenses for their homes, renewable and transmissible licences for their descendants, ensuring quickly the implementation of the intervention and requalification plan. at the heart of the island of Faro, the Ministry of the Environment has already ensured the financial conditions for the rehousing of fishermen, with the creation of a new fishing centre in the unaffected area of the island, with all living and working conditions, and the execution of a new bridge. at the hub of the Hangares and the Farol, where the PSD intended to demolish all dwellings, the Ministry of the Environment has now limited this intervention to the areas at greatest risk, even ensuring, in this 40 m distance range of water, that no first housing, no fishing house, living or mariner, active or reformed, is demolished without finding a resettling solution. I would like here to stress the role of the Ministry of the Environment, which has worked together with the associations of residents and the city halls in recent weeks, making the work difficult, but necessary, to separate the wheat from the juicy. Today, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore recommends to the Government that it resume the Coastal Orle Management Plan, the POOC Vilamoura-Vila Real de Santo António, recognizing, in the light of this new proposal for intervention, the existence of the nuclei of the Hangars and the Farol. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, during these years the Socialist Party has never hidden that, from an environmental point of view, it is not acceptable to defend buildings on top of the primary dune. We never hide that houses in the most risky areas should be removed and recognized nuclei. The proposal submitted by the Ministry of the Environment honours the words given by the Socialist Party to the residents of the Barrier Islands. Finally, we have the possibility of transforming the lives of these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u184	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u185	I'm done now, Mr. President. To recognize the fishing nuclei, the first dwellings, to recognize the historical existence of the nuclei of the Hangars and the Farol is what the Government and the Socialist Party will do, honoring the given word. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u186	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José Carlos Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet and greet the petitioners. I begin by recalling the main reason which led in 1987 to the reclassification of the nature reserve of the Formosa River as Natural Park: the understanding that it was a humanized territory, therefore not suitable for the reservation status, and there was a need to guide the ordination actions of the edificate, being generically distinguished between seasonal uses, on the one hand, on holidays, and, on the other hand, dwellings of fishermen, seafarers and living people, who could not fail to be defended. It is appropriate to have this historical perspective, even because the PS presented today a draft resolution that forgets many things. For example, forget that there is a POOC in force which legally frames the procedures to be adopted on the Isle of Barriers. Forget, let's be clear, because the PS knows that the POOC, which foresees the demolition, and the decree that in 2008 created the Polis Society are responsible for the governments of the Socialist Party. It is important to remember, just remember, it is not now to appreciate the merit of diplomas or intentions but just to remember, because, if it is the objective of the PS to change this understanding, then it would be a priority to act on the POOC rather than to take account, and the draft resolution that the PS presents today is another example of making an account. So it is necessary for the PS to come with this draft resolution to recommend to the government that — and I quote — « ensure that during 2016 the company Waters of the Algarve begins the construction of the new STAR Olhão / Faro »? This is to distract us from what? So the PS does not know that the former government has left ETAR with secured Community funding, involving amounts of EUR 15 million and ongoing award procedures, and that the work is ready to begin? Oh, my God! In fact, it is a perverse irony that, with regard to demolitions, the PS presents today a draft resolution in which one of the points is to recommend the construction of a STAR that is already being built. Mr Luís Graça, I have already received the invitation to launch the first stone—I do not know if you have received it either—the Secretary of State will be there and, of course, this was already under way. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u188	This is just another example of the drift we witnessed in this process: saying, dissembling, moving forward, going back and forth. That was the case with Mr. Minister's statements, so it was with the 40-metre line, so it was with the notifications, so it is with this draft resolution. And today we have another example: we just learned that the president of the Police Society has called for resignation. We have heard from a statement by the Ministry of the Environment that it is already dealing with the replacement of the President of the Police and that the demolition will continue as announced. The problem is, you don't know what was announced yesterday, or it's gone, and if it's still there. Therefore, what is required of the government in this area is clarification, which explains to people what is ultimately planned and what is not and which, by way of detail, with timetable, that requalification works will or will not be carried out, ensuring, between such distraction, that we do not lose the urgency to take forward the actions provided for in the POOC, and already announced, of requalification of the public space of the Culatra and the issue of housing titles. Moreover, we all know the commitments that each one made during the election campaign, and we know the consensus that was then established. For now we understand: if these majority consensus still exist, if the PS, however, has not changed...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u189	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u190	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that if these majority consensus still exist, if the PS, however, has not changed its opinion, transform the pre-election consensus into concrete responses to people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u191	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Formosa River is one of the greatest wealth the Algarve and the Country have and, as such, we agree with all measures aimed at protecting and renaturalizing the river and its barrier islands. It is worth recalling the population of the islands and the population of the Algarve that the bulldozers arrived in 2005, did not arrive with the previous government, came by the hands of the Socialist Party, during the first government of the Eng. José Socrates. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u193	And I will remind you: it was on June 27, 2005 that the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution with the Coastal Orla Management Plan between Vila Real de Santo António and Vilamoura. following this resolution, in September 2006, an order was approved by the same Government which framed the action, competences and scope of the Formosa River Police. So when the current majority — PS, Left Block, PCP and The Greens — encourage the population of the islands against the last government, they do so by betting on misinformation or forgetting and on the basis of lies. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u194	And more seriously, with insensitivity to those who are prepared to lose much of what they have, as a result of the legislative action of what is called the « left». This is the truth! It is important to stop lying and start to understand and separate what is a practical consequence of what is political will. Demolitions on the barreira islands are the practical consequence of the political will formed by the Socialist Party, and formed by the Socialist Party for 11 years and now. We don't know what's going to happen in a few weeks, because the Socialist Party is changing its opinion from two to two weeks. In fact, Mr. Luís Graça has just said that in the last two weeks, the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u195	That's not true, Mrs. Member! The PS never dropped a house down!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u196	I'm quoting what you said minutes ago, Mr. Luís Graça! The honourable Member has just said that in the last two weeks, the government has been untiring to meet with the people. Two weeks ago? Oh, my God! But where was the government a year ago? Oh, my God! You haven't been in office for a year? Oh, my God! The demolitions were prepared, the administrative possession was prepared! The Government has only agreed two weeks ago for such tireless work, Mr President? Oh, my God! But I also tell you, Mr President, that this depends on the political will, because you and the Government that support have political competence to revoke the POOC. You can do it! And I say more to you, Mr: why does the honourable Member present a draft resolution that says something and its opposite and does not present a bill? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u197	Well, well! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u198	The honourable Member has not read the draft resolution!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u199	Exactly, a bill, saying: "Let's end this or we'll revert"... Gentlemen, who are experts in reversals, why don't you have the courage to do it? Oh, my God! Assumam! They assume here in Parliament what they say in the Algarve and do not have two weights and two measures and two sides, depending on where they are. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u200	And because the CDS doesn't say something here...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u201	Mrs. Deputy, you've exceeded your time. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u202	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, because the CDS doesn't say something here and its opposite in the Algarve, we understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u203	You don't say anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u204	And you can only scream!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u205	You're shouting a lot, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u206	Mrs Teresa Caeiro, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u207	But who is Mr. Luís Moreira Testa in this debate? Oh, my God! As I was saying, because the CDS does not say something here and its opposite in the Algarve, we understand that it is counterproductive to say that it is enough to suspend the process of demolition to solve the numerous problems and challenges facing the barrier islands and their residents.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u208	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u209	Therefore, it is a challenge for people to have conversations and to be involved, but do not let the sun cover with the sieve. It's necessary to requalify and renaturalize, but it's not with these soft falsities that we're going there. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u210	Also for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The threat of demolition has not yet been removed. A few minutes ago we had Mr. PS Luís Graça talking about this possibility here. And if the government moves forward with the demolition, it must be clear that it will not be fulfilling, honoring the given word,... [[PCP applause.]] ...because what the PS committed to and assumed was with the stopping of demolition, and stopping demolition does not mean doing some demolition. But let it be clear that if the Government decides to move forward with the demolitions on the islands of the Formosa River, the CFP will be next to the people in their brave struggle to defend their homes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u212	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, Mr. Luís Graça, would have everything to win with a broad debate with the people and with...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u214	They're in the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u215	No, this is not the participation of the people! But we want to welcome them from here, and I have left it to the end, because, of course, the last message is also the first one, with great vehemence, for the fight they have undertaken and, yes, for having come here today, to the Assembly of the Republic, on the day the Greens scheduled this project. [[PCP applause.]] Yes, I welcome you, Mr, but do not confuse this with the participation of the people in a collaborative process that competes with the government. If the government wants a decision taken in accordance with the populations, which we do not know what will result, because collaborative processes are still...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u216	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u217	I will finish, Mr. President. But, honourable Member — be careful! — do not claim the environmental risk, because this is an argument that does not have a fit. And you know why? If it were for environmental risk, there weren't some houses down there and others didn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u218	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u219	If it were for environmental risk, something else had to be decided. Mr. Luís Graça, the conservation of nature is compatible with sustainable activities and with the participation of populations and their presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u220	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u221	That is why we have to go and not with tax governments, wanting to demolish what the people have already seen authorized. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u222	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 524 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 498 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 521 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 530 / XIII ( 2. ( a). The following point in our order of business concerns Bill No. 339 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 33 / 2016 of 24 August, clarifying the provisions for conducting financial, technical and legal studies on the future development of TDT ( PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ). This bill has not been allocated time for debate, but it has to be announced in order to be able to be voted on during the voting period. We shall therefore proceed to the voting period. I call on the services to act on the electronic voting system so that we can carry out the examination of the deliberation quorum. I take advantage of these brief moments to say that, despite the numerous consensual appeals at the Conference of Leaders, the requirements of several parliamentary groups to decomposition of the voting of draft resolutions have continued to appear until the end of the period immediately prior to the vote, including those most insurgent about the need for them to be put forward in a timely manner. Until the end, requests and proposals for the decomposition of the votes of draft resolutions which will only be distributed now will appear, which will therefore lead to an interval here a little higher than what should be normal in order for us to proceed to the vote. As you will recall, in the last and also in the penultimate Conference of Leaders—I believe that even in others— there have been several parliamentary groups that have expressed themselves in the sense that this should only be accepted — which I believe would be good practice — until the day before or before the vote. However, we continue to see the submission of these requests not on the eve or on the eve but on the same day, on the vote itself, requesting the separate vote of numbers and points, which is very interesting but does not correspond to the consensus of the Conference of Leaders. We will therefore have to reach another consensus at another Leader Conference on this subject. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that we are not yet in the voting period, because it is not yet 18 hours — today, contrary to what happened yesterday, the debates have been much faster — but we will proceed to the electronic verification of the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, will not be able to do so will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 194 meetings, to which 7 are added, by 201 Members, and therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. I would like to inform you, Mr President. Members who have not had the opportunity to register can do so, with the services, until 6 p.m. Let us then proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on a vote relating to an event that we all regret, which has been going on for a very few hours. It is the vote No 147 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of João Lobo Antunes ( President of RA, PS, PSD, PAN, BE, CDS-PP and Os Verdes ). I will read it myself: « João Lobo Antunes was born in Lisbon on June 4, 1944. He attended the former Camões High School, graduated from the University of Lisbon School of Medicine and graduated from Columbia University in New York, where he was a fullbright Foundation scholarship. The passage through the United States of America would have to mark it deeply, from a professional, intellectual and civic point of view. João Lobo Antunes was much more than the brilliant neurosurgeon we all remember — which would no longer be a small one. He was a full-time citizen. A humanist. Enthralled by knowledge, fascinated by the mystery of life and human intelligence, João Lobo Antunes was a man of culture, familiar with the classics and attentive to the movements and trends of his time. Professional excellence has developed alongside civic commitment. He was a national representative of the candidatures of two former Presidents of the Republic, Jorge Sampaio and Cavaco Silva, respected by all political quadrants. Former State Counsellor, committed himself to unifying the universities of Lisbon and was a present, serene and lucid voice in Portuguese public space. On 25 April he received the Great Cross of the Order of Freedom from the President of the Republic. He was currently President of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences. The tensions between the advances of science and ethical values were also one of their election themes. Today it leaves us a great Portuguese. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, indicates its death by conveying the most significant grief to its family». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us turn to vote No 148 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Jaime Fernandes ( PSD, PS, PAN, CDS-PP, PCP and BE ), which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Jaime Fernandes died, founder of Antenna 3 and responsible for several programs in the public radio service. He was currently RTP's Telespector Provider. Liver, journalist and radio director Jaime Fernandes dedicated his professional life to the public radio service. Jaime Fernandes was born in 1947 and discovered the taste for radio, in Africa, on the Radio Club of Mozambique, was then 18 years old. when returning to Portugal, he began his career on the Portuguese Radio Club, he was for several years journalist and speaker at the National Emissora by giving voice to various works of radio theater. In 1989, it entered the administration of the RDP and in 1994 created the Antenna 3 station. Jaime Fernandes, a reference in the history of Portuguese radio, was director of Renascença Radio programs, the origin of the launch of FM wave on Renaissance Radio, from which the RFM was born, and was also author of the well-known program of the Pacific Ocean RFM. Between 2000 and 2001 he was managing RTP and, among others, served as programme director. In 2012, he was one of the authors of the series of the Foreign Life Form RTP—A History of Portuguese Popular Music, which included, in 26 episodes, the course of Portuguese popular music from the 1930s to the present. Currently, while RTP's Telespector Provider, Jaime Fernandes presented the citizen's Voice program. The Portuguese radio history told RTP in 2009, at the time of the Antenna 3 awards, that they distinguished him as the ‘ father’ of that station: ‘ I was a lucky man in the profession and had extraordinary moments. ’ The Assembly of the Republic, meeting today in plenary, pays a tribute to its memory, its professionalism and dedication, in journalism and in all the positions it has performed, to the ‘extraordinary moments’ which its voice and work brought to the Portuguese, and to its family a vow of regret’. Mr. President: - Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just voted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 146 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings to the Women's Football Selection for the final phase of the 2017 European Championship ( PCP, PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens, PAN and BE ). I draw attention to the fact that they are in the galleries attending the session representatives of our National Women's Soccer Selection. We shall vote for this vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation, standing.]] For this process to be effectively different, we now turn to the reading of the vote, which has already been approved. In the rush of having a positive moment, he does not allow Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to read the vote. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The National Selection obtained on Tuesday in Cluj, the final phase of the European Championship to be held on 16 July and 6 August 2017, in the Netherlands. for the first time in our history, the Women's Soccer Selection won the race for a European championship at tie 1-1 in Romania, after extension, against the second hand of the play-off. Thirty-five years and one day after the first official game of the National Women's Soccer Selection came the first breakthrough for a final phase of the European Championship. in the words of Alfredina Silva, one of the pioneers of this 1981 Selection, ‘there was an abismal difference between the French Selection and ours, even in simple things, such as equipment and chuteers... They had already participated in seven stages of clearance and we only two years later we would come to dispute the first. Still, with our bright soul, we leave there with a tie to zero. It was a surprise to everyone. Also today the differences are more than many, especially in a world still so marked by the discrepancies in the number and conditions of participation of women and men in fashion as well as in sports in general. The right to sport practice by women on equal terms is a daily struggle, to which the players of the selection led by Francisco Neto contributed. This is a historic achievement for national sport, the result of much work of these players and technical team, but certainly also of the work of many other athletes and technicians, who built this path with much dedication, overcoming difficult and demanding obstacles. This result is another step forward in valuing women's football, in the need to bet on this investment path in national sports and equality also in the sports world. The long way to overcome structural difficulties and media invisibility has today brought down another barrier. Now, the ball is theirs. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the completion of the National Selection and welcomes the commitment and will to overcome these athletes, wishing them the greatest successes for the final phase of the 2017 European Women's Football Championship ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u225	If no one opposes us, we consider this vote to be approved by acclamation. [[General applause.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 532 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, from 27 October to 1 December 2016, and extension of its period of operation for more than 90 days ( the President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 527 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value long-term contributions ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u226	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u227	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u228	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u229	You have the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u230	Mr President, I would like to make an oral request to draft law No 334 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) download to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing without a vote for a period of 45 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u231	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u232	Mr President, I would like to request that Bill No. 338 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and draft resolution No 528 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) come to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing without a vote for a period of 45 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u233	As the NAP presented a draft environmental law, I wonder if Mr André Silva has anything to say at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u234	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u235	Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u236	Mr President, it is also to require draft resolution No 529 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) the PS shall bring down to the competent Commission without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u237	All right. We shall then vote on the requests of all these parliamentary groups for those diplomas to be reduced to 11. the Commission, without a vote, within 45 days. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 337 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Revocation of Decree-Law No 109 / 94 of 26 April which regulates the access and exercise of exploration, research, development and production of oil in Portugal ( PAN ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and CFP, with votes against the NAP and with abstentions from BE and the Greens.]] We will move on to the general vote on Bill No. 315 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Make final and permanent reductions in public grants for the financing of political parties and for election campaigns and within the limits of election campaign expenditure ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verde, votes against the PAN and the PS abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 314 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June introducing measures for fiscal justice, equal treatment and transparency in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes in favour of BE and the CDS-PP.]] We will move on to the general vote on Bill No. 304 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Act No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ), eliminating the benefit of municipal property tax exemption ( IMI ) for political parties ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 331 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Act No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), establishing definitive reductions in public grants for the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns and at the maximum limits of election campaign expenditure ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verde, votes against the PAN and the PS abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 332 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Revoke some of the benefits of the political parties provided for in Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, and reduce the values of the financing of the electoral campaigns ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens, and votes against BE, CDS-PP and PAN.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft law No 333 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of 10 % deduction on the grant of political parties for another two years ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the EB abstention.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 336 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduce public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PS and the NAP.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u238	Mr President, it is in order to inform you that the PS Parliamentary Group will immediately issue a declaration of vote in writing on the vote on these diplomas relating to the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u239	Be registered, Mr. Carlos César. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 331 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Consecrate May 16 as the Day of Scientists ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs Ana Virginia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u240	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CFP will present a statement of vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u241	All right, Mrs. Deputy. We now proceed to the vote on a request from the Left Block, requesting the death of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for a period of 45 days from Bill No 264 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July establishing the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from national territory ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We now proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the CFP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for a period of 45 days from Bill No 240 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reposition of limits on the expulsion of foreign nationals from national territory ( Fourth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for entry, stay, exit and removal of aliens from national territory ) ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore drops to 1. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 526 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a new model of State financing for the social and solidarity sector with regard to the use of social services and equipment ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 525 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a new form of updating the values of the cooperation agreements with the entities of the social sector ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall now vote on point 1.1 of draft resolution No 380 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures contributing to the reduction of costs with fuel ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on point 1.2 of draft resolution No 380 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go to points 2 and 3 of this draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 1 of draft resolution No 524 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the need to solve environmental problems in the Formosa River and by the suspension of the demolition announced in the Barrier Islands ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3 of this motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on point 2 of this motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on point 1 of draft resolution No 498/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of new demolitions, the dialogue with populations and the recognition of the economic, social and cultural value of the population nuclei of the barrier islands of the Formosa river ( text replaced by the author) ( BE). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the vote on point 2 of this motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on point 3 of this motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We now vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on point 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP abstention.]] We now vote on point 6. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PS and the NAP.]] Let us vote on point 7. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE and the PAN, and abstentions against the CFP and the Greens.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 8. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on point 1 of draft resolution No 521 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the end of the demolition process on the Isles of the Formosa River ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 5 and 6. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Finally, let us vote on points 2, 3 and 4. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 530 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around the requalification and enhancement of the Formosa River ( PS ). Let us first vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] The vote on point 2 shall follow. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall vote on points 4, 5 and 6. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] The general vote on Bill No 339 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 33 / 2016 of 24 August, clarifying the provisions for conducting financial, technical and legal studies on the future development of TDT ( PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 452 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Valuation of forest slag teams ( BE ). Let us vote first on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on points 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 467 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of an effective intermodal transport system in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, with votes against the PS, the BE and the PAN, and the Greens' abstention.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 250 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Confirms the intermodal social pass as a title in all collective passenger transport and updates the geographical scope of their crowns in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, and BE abstention.]] The general vote on Bill No 286 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Consecrate the Andante, intermodal social pass of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, as a title in all collective passenger transports and update the geographical scope of the respective zone ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, and BE abstention.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u242	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will deliver a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u243	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u244	Mr President, at the end of the voting period, and as it is regiment, I would like to make an oral statement on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u245	All right, Mr. Deputies. We shall now vote on a request by the PS for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 2 ( d ). o ( Sense and extension) of Bill No. 28 / XIII ( 2. (a) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the new legal regime on the installation and operation of plants in marine waters, including transitional waters, and inland waters. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Having been approved of the application and having a lawyer by the plenary, I wonder if there is any registration for interventions by parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] By not registering any entries for interventions, we shall proceed to the vote in the speciality of Article 2 ( d ). that of the bill we just identified. [[When put to the vote, the votes against BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD were adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on the proposal for a law No 28 / XIII ( 2 ). (a) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the new legal regime on the installation and operation of plants in marine waters, including transitional waters, and inland waters. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u246	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u247	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u248	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP will make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u249	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on draft laws Nos 289 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Clarifies fiscal neutrality in non-conventional therapies by the first amendment to Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August ( Non-Conventional Therapy Basic Framework Act ) and Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September regulating Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 on the professional exercise of non-conventional therapy ( PSD ) activities, 293 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) - — Amend the VAT Code with a view to exempting the provision of services performed in the field of non-conventional therapies ( CDS-PP ) and 301 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the provision of services in the exercise of non-conventional therapeutic professions recognised by Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( BE ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS and the PCP abstention.]] Mrs Carla Cruz, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u250	Mr President, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the last vote, the Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u251	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u252	Mr President, I would like to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party will also give a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u253	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 1 to 8 of the Journal on plenary meetings held on 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 28, 29 and 30 September 2016. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Mrs. Members at the beginning of the session were given a report and an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3. a is 7. the Statute of the Deputies of Mr. Jorge Moreira da Silva ( PSD ), an electoral circle of Braga, being replaced by Rui Manuel Ferreira da Silva ( PSD ), with effect from 1 November 2016, including. The opinion is that the Member concerned should be dismissed and replaced, since the legal requirements have been met. Also at the beginning of the sitting, I congratulated the honourable Member on his recognition of his capacity. OECD is a body where places are extremely difficult to win by competition. I hope you have a very happy trip in Paris, as I had a few years ago. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]] Let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we still have to vote for an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the request of the Criminal Section, J2, of the Land of Aveiro, Case No 822/13.2TAVFR, and which authorizes Mr Antonio Cardoso ( PS ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question. If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, I am going to give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias to make a statement of oral vote requested at the end of the votes of the Lein.o 250 / XIII drafts ( 1 ). ( a ) and 286 / XIII ( 1. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u254	Mr President, the legislative initiatives of the CFP with the concrete solutions that we have set out for the social pass and for the Walk in public transport have been rejected with the votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the abstention of BE. We proposed a pass for all operators and careers in the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto and the replacement of prices reduced by 50 % for students, pensioners and pensioners. That's what just fell down. For months we had chambers and municipal assemblies, assemblies of parish, unanimously, to express their support specifically for these CFP initiatives. This is precisely one month ago that a sub-signed was launched in favour of the adoption of these measures in the tariff system. in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, this month, we collected more 7000 signatures, a direct expression of this demand and expectation, which now had this destination because of the responsibility of these parties. If the PSD, PS, BE, and CDS maintained the same position and sense of vote as they had in the local authorities in defense and support of these PCP proposals, they would now have been approved. Unfortunately, they said something there and they say something else here—it's not the first time this happens. But we want to say here that we will not give up on this proposal, because it is just and necessary and is a requirement of the people. We shall certainly return to this debate in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-27.u255	Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will be on 3 November, Thursday, with the following agenda: presentation and discussion, in general, of the proposals of lein. 36 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2017 and 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. I wish good parliamentary days to the Left Block and a good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 43 minutes.]]
