ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and others. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on the file you entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I would like to inform the House that Mr President has admitted motions for resolutions Nos 35 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and Montenegro to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters signed in Lisbon on 12 July 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission, 36 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol amending the Convention between Portugal and France to Avoid Double Taxation and Establish Mutual Administrative Assistance Rules on Income Taxes ( signed on 14 January 1971 ), signed on 25 August 2016, which aims to avoid double international taxation and prevent international tax fraud and evasion, which falls to 2. the Commission, 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Genetic Tests for Health-Related Purposes, open for signature in Strasbourg on 27 November 2008, which falls to 2. the Commission, 38 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Islamic Republic ofMauritania , signed inNouakchott , on 21 October2010 , which falls to2 . theCommission , 39 / XIII (2 . ( a ) — Approves theIbero- American Cinematographic Integration Convention adopted in Caracas on 11 November1989 , which falls to2 . theCommission , 40 / XIII (2 . ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to theIbero- American Cinematographic Integration Convention adopted inCórdoba ,Spain , on 28 November 2007 which falls to2 . theCommission , 41 / XIII (2 . ( a ) — Approves the Latin American Agreement on Cinematographic Co-production adopted in Caracas on 11 November1989 , which falls to2 . theCommission , and 42 / XIII ( 2) . ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the Latin American Cinematic Co-productionAgreement , signed in Bogotá on 14 July2006 , which falls to2 . theCommission. Bill No 354 / XIII ( 2 ) was added to the Table. ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of pregnant, puerper and lactating workers and workers in the enjoyment of parental leave and amends the Labour Code and the Labour Law in Public Functions ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission and draft resolution No 560 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the binding of teachers hired in accordance with Directive 1999 / 70 / EC ( BE ), which falls to 8. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Members, before we get on the agenda, I would like to welcome the CFP by its XX Congress, held last weekend, and also Mr Jerónimo de Sousa who, following this Congress, was re-elected Secretary-General of the Communist Party. Let us then move on to the first item on the agenda, which is part of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on decentralization policies. For an intervention to open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor, which has 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Allow me first of all to greet the members of the Portuguese Communist Party's bench for holding its recent Congress and, in particular, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa for his re-election as Secretary-General of the Portuguese Communist Party, making sincere vows of the greatest successes in the performance of this new mandate. A week ago, this House approved the State Budget for 2017 which will lead us to half the legislature. We have therefore stabilized the change of policies initiated a year ago, with a Budget that improves family income and social protection, which promotes investment and sustainable economic growth, with less deficit and less debt. We therefore meet the conditions for implementing the reforms envisaged in the National Reform Programme focused on solving the structural problems facing our country. The year 2017 will be the year of consistently moving forward and committed to the qualification of Portuguese, the innovation of the economy, the capitalisation of companies, social cohesion and the reduction of inequalities. But 2017 will also have to be the year of the real bet on the value of the territory and on the modernization of the state. On 12 December we celebrated 40 years on the first democratic elections for local authorities. I want here to pay tribute to the hundreds of thousands of women and men, of all political parties and of many groups of citizens who have served their communities over the last few decades in assemblies and councils of parish, assemblies and municipal chambers. [[PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP applause.]] Local democratic power is surely one of the greatest successes of our democracy: as a school of democratic participation; as a promoter of Portuguese access to basic infrastructures and essential goods; as an agent of the planning of the territory; as an engine of investment attraction; and in the dynamization of the local economy. However, Portugal still maintains, at the end of 40 years, a degree of centralism that separates us from the governance standards in general of European democracies. Authorities are indeed a model of sound public finance management: they manage only 14 % of public revenue — far from the average of 25 % in the European Union — but ensure 46 % of public investment, with a decisive role in the implementation of European funds. Today we can say in euro what Prof. Valente de Oliveira said in shields for years: 1 euro invested by local authorities is worth 3 euro spent by the central government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The best way to celebrate together these 40 years of local democratic power is to assume decentralization as the cornerstone of state reform. We aim to achieve in 10 years the European average of local participation in public revenues and therefore we dedicate in the National Reform Programme the goal of achieving by the end of this Legislation the management by local authorities of 19% of the total revenues of the State. This reform requires the active participation of the autarchs and requires the broadest consensus in this Assembly of the Republic. I welcome the proposals recently put forward by the opposition, in particular by the PSD. The State budget was not the appropriate occasion to debate them,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... but I see in these proposals a very important contribution to this reform and I expect that we can discuss them together with the initiatives of the government and other parties already in January. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u5	Until the end of this month, we will have concluded the discussion with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the National Association of Freguesias ( ANAFRE ) on the areas to be decentralized in all areas of public management and, during the first quarter of next year, we hope that the mission will fall to the Assembly of the Republic to take a historic step towards decentralization, ensuring that the local cycle 2017 - 2021 will already be implemented a new time of local policies in the fields of education and training, health, social action, transport, heritage, culture, civil protection and management of coastal and maritime fronts. Inter-municipal communities must have an important role to play when the local intervention scale exceeds the city scale, allowing for efficiency and efficiency gains. Frequencies will also have their role strengthened by consolidating them as own competences of matters which they already perform, on the basis of agreements for delegation of competence, and where, at the local level, the value of the proximity of decision is understood. An appropriate scale and financial resources are essential conditions for a new role of the parish as part of the re-evaluation of the territorial model to be carried out in 2018. New powers will be associated with a new framework for local finances, which increases local tax autonomy, as enshrined in the State Budget for 2017 in respect of the granting of tax benefits, and also with new sources of revenue, including a participation of municipalities in the revenue of VAT collected in their territories. The local authorities, which have stood out as the only sector in the Public Administration with successive positive budgetary balances since 2008 and a clear tendency to reduce debt—less EUR 400 million until September— deserve this vote of confidence. The democratic legitimacy of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto has long been provided for in Article 236. the Constitution, which adds almost half of the population and more than half of the gross domestic product(GDP ), should also be strengthened by promoting its competitiveness among European metropolises, thus contributing to the development of the entire national territory. Integrated management of transport, water or sanitation networks, economic promotion, the management of Community programmes and the planning of the territory gain efficiency on the metropolitan scale. I know that there are many possible models to achieve this will and I also know that it is a common desire to consolidate real metropolitan areas. The benefit of a greater consensus, the Government invited the Presidents of the Metropolitan Councils of Lisbon and Porto, Drs. Hermínio Loureiro and Basilio Horta, to work together in order to present to the various parliamentary groups represented in the Assembly of the Republic their proposals so that they can be discussed in the form of draft law, making it available to the Government to ensure all the technical support that the Metropolitan Areas and the Assembly of the Republic request it, so that we do not miss this occasion to conclude the evolution we have seen in several stages since 1989. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The democratisation of the coordination and regional development committees (CCDs) is precisely in this direction, and the role of them is to be planning centres and to define regional development strategies within the framework of European fund support programmes, with a view to maximizing the country's potential for innovation and growth in a balanced and supportive manner. They will be elected by the end of 2017 — and not by the government — to choose the next leaders of the CCDRs and will be those who will participate in defining development priorities for the 2020-2028 cycle. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, four decades after the first authentic elections, the time has come for full implementation of Article 6. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which defines Portugal as a unitary State based on respect for the autonomy of local power, the principle of subsidiarity and the democratic decentralization of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u6	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u7	I am in the last paragraph, Mr. President. The transfer of State competences and means to the closest bodies of people will strengthen not only democratic participation and transparency, but also economic and social development, social unity and solidarity between the Portuguese. With more decentralization, it is gaining the country and gaining our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u8	To put questions, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u9	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by congratulating the Secretary-General of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, for his re-election at this last Congress of the Portuguese Communist Party and, of course, wish him the greatest happiness in the exercise of his duties. Mr Prime Minister, today the Government has chosen to decentralise the 40 years of local democratic power in Portugal. I believe it is important for the Government to give this relevant attention and that, as stated here, the opportunity is not lost in the next autumn cycle that a reform of the State can be undertaken from a process of decentralization of new competences and assignments to municipalities, to the inter-municipal communities, to their forms of territorial organization, including the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. I regret that I have lost the opportunity to make some of the proposals that the PSD has just made for the same purpose in the State budget itself. They were several and symptomatic was that none had merited reflection or discussion or any vote on the feasibility of the majority supporting the government. Therefore, they were completely plummeted. The Prime Minister has now come to say: "Well, that is because the State budget may not be the right place for us to have this discussion." Let me disagree. The State budget is a wonderful opportunity for us to discuss how the State organizes its means for the purposes it must undertake. Therefore, a good signal that the Government could have made was this commitment that during 2017 it would then be able to develop the debate necessary to deepen these reforms which should enter into force, as we proposed, on 1 January 2018 — I assume that this is not the date that would disturb the government or the majority of the proposals we have made. It was a missed opportunity, but we're not having fun... [[PS laughter.]] ... and, therefore, we democratically accept that Parliament decides to take our proposals firstly to take several of them and present them as theirs to be discussed in Parliament the following year. But we'll be here to discuss them. [[PSD applause.]] I hope that it will not really miss a golden opportunity so that the new generation of autarchs we have in Portugal can fight for a new cycle of development of their territories, their lands, their investment attractiveness, the qualification of our resources and the provision of public service in relevant social areas that is not yet understood as they are still in the orbit of the central administration, because they can be well exercised at the level of local power. As you know, when I was in the government, I started several innovative projects area, and we are very interested in how they can develop and even deepen. But, Prime Minister, I cannot lose the opportunity in this first debate after the Budget to ask you whether, on a matter, I believe, we agree that is so important to the Portuguese economy, to growth, to our positive expectations about employment and the economy as the financial system is, the Government already has an explanation for giving Parliament what happened in the General Deposit Box. Every day we are reading through social communication, and hearing versions of what has happened, but I have not yet seen, or heard, either of you or of the Minister of Finance, or of the part of the resignation president of the General Deposit Box, a simple explanation for what has happened. We do not know until today why the President of the Box has resigned — no explanation has been given to Parliament. It was not possible to obtain any evidence of what the effective intentions are with regard to the recapitalisation process; on the contrary, we have only heard that green light is given, that the plan is made, but no one pronounces on it. Sometimes it appears — it is certainly not, on the initiative of the opposition, how it should be calculated — published in the newspaper what will be strategies for the public bank. But it can only be the Government to explain this matter, in particular the Prime Minister. I have been attentive to what you say, I have seen him very concerned about the past, but I have seen him very little available to talk about what is his responsibility and what has happened to this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u11	I would like to invite Mr. Prime Minister, with respect to the Portuguese, the Country and the House, to give an explanation about what is going on with the General Deposit Box. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u12	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u13	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I hope that you will not fall for excessive optimism by positively registering here the greatest novelty of your speech: it is that you and the PSD do not love. I hope it's not optimism and so on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to record our willingness to work together with the entire House for this year that we celebrate the 40 years of local democratic power, we will implement the legislative changes that allow the next autumn cycle, which will start in October 2017, to have more tasks, more competences and a better institutional framework for the performance of its functions. This is a debate that deserves to be held by itself, not mixed in the Budget, not with programmatic rules but with concrete rules, to prevail in 2018 and not to exhaust itself in a law which by nature expires in December 2017. Regarding the General Deposit Box, for me, the central issue—and there I think we are at odds—is to know what we want for the future of the General Deposit Box. And since the beginning, we have said very clearly what we want: that the General Deposit Box is a public bank 100 %, that is not partially or fully privatized and that it is equipped with the capital needed to be a solid pillar for our financial system, that guarantees the savings of families and an instrument for the service of the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As it is recalled, in the past, there were those who wanted to privatize the General Deposit Box, totally or partially. There were those who understood that it was not possible to obtain authorisation from the European Union to make the 100 % public capitalisation of the Box. My Government's concern about the General Deposit Box was first to ensure that the Box has a business plan, a capitalisation programme and a restructuring programme that ensures its solvency, that it maintains 100 % public and that the State is in a position to achieve that capital. To this end, we have provided the General Deposit Box with a new governance model, ensuring its full professionalization and depolitization of its management. If I wonder if the training process and the relationship of the administration still in office with the regulatory framework of the obligations it has towards the Constitutional Court were successful, I will tell you that clearly it did not work well. Now, it is appropriate not to confuse what is accessory of what is essential. And what is essential? What is essential is that we guarantee what was essential to guarantee: the State has the green light of Brussels in order to be able to proceed with the 100 % public capitalisation process. What's going on? It is going through what was the agreement signed with the Directorate-General for Competition, i.e. to reassess the inequalities in order to fix the effective capital needs frameworks, which is concluded. However, since, from the moment that formalizes the recognition of inequalities, the deadline for starting the capitalisation process begins to run, the administration still in office understood, by resigning, that it should not approve it and, responsibly, leaving for the new administration the responsibility to appreciate, take the fixing of the inequalities and fix the need for the bank's capitalisation. That is what is going on, and this ensures a smooth, responsible, serene transition that will enable the State to fulfil its obligations. Secondly, what does the capitalisation plan foresee? It foresees that, depending on the capital needs, these needs are met in different ways: conversion of the CoCo; the transfer of the shares that the General Deposit Box has in the Shareholder to the General Deposit Box, thus reducing the capital reinforcement needs ; an investment by the State, and to ensure that the conditions on the part of the State do not constitute State aid, there is a maximum limit that is authorised by the European Commission, but the amount may not exceed the needs reached in the inequalities and to verify that this is done under market conditions, the General Deposit Box will have to launch a non-convertible capital bond operation in order to prove that the investment that the State will make is an investment compatible with the market rules. This is what is approved and this is essential. What is important is to follow the good advice that Mr President of the Republic has given to all of us today: not to turn the General Deposit Box into a political battle and turn it into what must be, that is, a bank of confidence for all Portuguese. That is the only thing that my government and I are focused on ensuring. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u14	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u15	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I realize that you are very committed to building confidence around the General Deposit Box, but the administration you have appointed has resigned and we have not yet been able to understand why.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u16	Say why, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u17	I asked that question and admitted that Mr. Prime Minister could answer. Since I have little time, I will give you the floor so that you can tell us what happened, because the administration has resigned, so that we do not make journalistic speculations. The country cannot make journalistic speculations on major and important issues like this one. It has to be the government, serenely, informing the country, the Portuguese and the House about what happened. Until that happens, there is no confidence, Prime Minister. And you know that. In order to build trust it is necessary to give transparency to the explanation, we are waiting for it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u18	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u19	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I thought you wanted to talk about the substance and not about the incidents. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u20	I believe that you know why the administration resigned: because a legislative initiative proposed by your party was adopted in this House of the Republic,... [[PSD protests.]] ... having understood the administration of the Box which, with the approval of this proposal, reduced their conditions for the performance of their duties. That's what I know, I don't have anything else to say. What do I have to say more? I regret that the administration of the Box has resigned and acted as it should: I invited a new personality to form a new team to lead the General Deposit Box. I am very pleased that Dr. Paulo Macedo has been able to accept the invitation from the Government to lead the new Caixa team, I know that it is concluding this team, I know that this process is taking place quietly with the supervisory bodies and that we will soon have a new administration of the General Deposit Box, which will follow what is essential, i.e., to ensure that the General Deposit Box meets its business plan, its restructuring plan and its capitalisation plan. In this way, we will not only guarantee the safeguard of savings, but we will also have a General Deposit Box at the service of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u21	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u22	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I understand correctly, the President of Box and other members of the administration have resigned because Parliament has adopted a rule, a law which says that the administrators of the General Deposit Box are obliged, like all public managers, to present their declarations of heritage and income. Is this it, Prime Minister? Do you understand? It's just for me to understand. Is that why the administration quit? As far as I know, these statements have been made. So, there's something here that doesn't hurt right. Mr. Prime Minister, don't you think? Oh, my God! That shouldn't have been it. I think Mr. Prime Minister should have another explanation and, therefore, I would like to hear it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u23	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u24	Mr. President, Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, we are, perhaps, at a embarrassing time for both,... [[PSD laughter.]] ...because we agree with each other. If I wonder if I find it strange, I find it strange; if I wonder if I have another explanation, I do not have, because no other one has been given me. [[PSD protests.]] But the honourable Member has good ways to get another more detailed clarification from his own than the one I have to give him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u25	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am very pleased to make all the efforts that I am suggesting, so the Government cooperates with the demands we have made, because normally it does not respond to the issues raised by it. [[PSD applause.]] We must therefore ask the Prime Minister what questions his Minister and his Government refuse to answer. But I hope you cooperate now. In any case, Mr Prime Minister, let me tell you that there are at least two strange things in the explanation and in the situation which causes you embarrassment, the first of which is that in the vote of this law, the Socialist Party here in Parliament voted against. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u27	This suggests — a second strange thing — that something could be combined with administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u28	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u29	The question I am asking is whether the administration has resigned not by Parliament has approved this law, but by the Government has committed itself to the failure to pass that law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u30	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u31	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I believe that no Government with an absolute majority can make a commitment on behalf of another sovereign body. The Government could never, under any circumstances, undertake a commitment on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares knows something that I don't know about any compromise I've made?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u32	We know the PS voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u33	So, for there to be no doubt, I will say that the Government has not made any commitment that the Assembly of the Republic would not approve what it understands, because the Government must respect the sovereignty of the Assembly of the Republic to approve the laws it understands and that the Government simply complies with, comply with and enforce. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u34	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u35	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, time will not allow either of us to continue this debate, which, however, is a debate that the country needs to hear, because we need to know exactly what is to be done with the largest Portuguese bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u36	I told you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u37	It is not worth insisting on phrases that explain little of what has happened. I leave only a note to reaffirm the deep concern with which we see the work being carried out, insofar as the changes that have been publicly reported on the new criteria for registering inequalities that are being followed by the same auditor who has been monitoring the accounts of Box for more than eight years may create financial disruption in other Portuguese banks. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] This is very clear and we know...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u38	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u39	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, this is very clear and we know that, when we are in government, we have to look at the General Deposit Box as a state shareholder, but the shareholder state is also a State and the government also has to look at the « forest». And, as I said, the financial system is really critical...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u40	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I have said, the financial system is really critical, but it is important that the directions given by the Government to the General Deposit Box are in fact to preserve financial stability. And we have many doubts about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u42	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u43	If Mr. President will allow me, I would just like to say the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u44	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time in more than one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u45	Mr Prime Minister has exceeded the time of his initial intervention in more than that, but I will be very brief, Mr President. I just wanted to say that, within a week, we know external evaluation results on the Portuguese educational system that show very important values achieved by the educational community...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u46	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u47	... and that they are not indifferent to the policies that have been pursued.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u48	Ah! That's very good too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u49	My question is this, Prime Minister : why the government did not wait for the results of the external evaluation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u50	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u51	... that, even more, showed such positive values,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u52	Mr President, the times are organized at the Leaders Conference, so you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u53	...to reverse so many important measures of education policy? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u54	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u55	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I will respect Mr President of the Republic's appeal and therefore I will not generate any conflict here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I will simply tell you that at the end of my term of office we will see what the Court of Auditors says about what we have done, because the Court of Auditors has already said what you have done with regard to the financial system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u56	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u57	Mr President, allow me alone, so that I do not have the indelicacy not to answer the second question by Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, which underlines the following: I think that the country has many reasons to be collectively satisfied with the excellent results now evidenced by the PISA and that they clearly note the effort made, since 30 years ago it has been approved in this Assembly of the Republic, the Basic Law of the Education System. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u58	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u59	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u60	There is, however, one thing that I can certainly assure you, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho: having this survey of children aged 15 years, I can assure you that none of these children had taken the tests that were removed and that you are so proud. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u61	You now have the floor to put questions to Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u62	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was not here that I was going to start, but if I may, and because Mr Pedro Passos Coelho thought it good to bring here the results of the PISA, I mean that we are certainly happy when the results of the education system in Portugal are improved. But if we look at the results and are happy, we will not fail to look at what concerns us, namely the high retention rate and the fact that, as Nuno Crato imposed vocational education from the age of 13, children with more difficulties were left out of these tests. So there is a disruption here with regard to the ability of the public school to combat inequalities, which is a priority of which we cannot give up. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u63	We know that these 15-year-olds, fortunately, did not have the tests that Nuno Crato created in public school, nor even the curricular goals that changed. What was now tested was the fruits of the Mathematics program that Nuno Crato threw to the trash...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u65	...and the extraordinary route of the school library network, which was at risk with the court of teachers to keep them. It is good to look at PISA with all data and all numbers. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, more than any debate on which the Government, the Minister and Parliament have been linked to any outcome in education, the results of the public school are due to those who do it, to those who work it every day, and under such difficult conditions it has done so. Mr. Prime Minister today, I wanted to tell you about teachers and teachers, who have been under attack too long. Too long it was understood that the school was moving against the teachers and not with the teachers. It was like this from Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues to Nuno Crato, and this is the time to turn the page. The teachers had attacks on careers and wages, saw the school hours increase and saw the democratic management of schools complete. Today there are more students, more classes, overcrowded classes and work in schools where there are no teaching and non-teaching staff needed for their good work, and with requirements as we never had to respond to the educational results that we can be proud of. I would like to ask you a specific question, among so many of the problems we have to solve, surely, in education and with teachers, about the linkage of the teachers hired. We have an agreement, in this majority, to combat precariousness and so that the State can set an example, by doing its part. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, in the private sector, at the end of three years, who has a long-term contract becomes having an effective contract. How can we have teachers hired for decades without ties? Oh, my God! And now your Government's proposal is that the link is to teachers who have been hired for 20 years and full-time? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u66	Oh, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u67	So who's got contracts 19 years ago, 15 years ago, 10 years ago? Who does not have a full time but meets a permanent need does not deserve rights?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u68	What a hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u69	In this country, more than 20,000 teachers have been hired and hired for more than 10 years are more than 7000. If we only bind those over 20 years and full time, they're less than 400 teachers. This does not answer, it is not possible or acceptable. The question I ask you and the appeal I leave you with is that this proposal is reviewed and this government does what needs to be done — teachers must be linked, yes, all those who meet permanent needs, all those who have contracts in time, when they should already be bound — and not a cosmetic operation, which only insults teachers and teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u70	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u71	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the success of these results is first of all students, their families, their teachers, their educators, the entire educational community. It is also the result of a number of policy measures which have been implemented throughout successive governments and on the basis of a Basic Law of the Education System which was adopted 30 years ago here in the Assembly of the Republic, but not unanimously with a very broad consensus. In fact, I believe that only the CDS voted against this Basic Law or, at least, did not vote in favour of the Basic Law of the Education System. Therefore, we have good reasons for collectively, as a country, to be proud of these results, as we are also proud, collectively, of the results of the National Health Service, and this pride is not only of the Government a or the Government b. What it is not possible to say is that we question the success of these results, by eliminating tests to which children who were evaluated in the report that, yesterday, was never published. None of these children were subjected to these tests and therefore, as much merit as they had, did not contribute at all to the success of this result. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Catarina Martins, I share with you the need to have a stable teaching body, with stability in its relationship of work and stability in its relationship with the school. Perhaps because I have been married for many years with a person who has for a long time been an educator, I have always had a lot of difficulty in understanding how, in an area where it is relatively simple to predict with a few decades of advance, generally, the needs that we will have and that we will have to satisfy, it is not possible to have a stabilized teaching body and we know what the permanent needs are. I understand that it can be difficult to do this in health, because it is difficult to predict how many people will be affected by an outbreak of influenza within 10 years. We may have difficulty knowing what are the effects needed for the PSP and for the GNR, because it is difficult to know, in 15 years, precisely how will our crime evolve. But with regard to a sector where the demographic process is relatively predictable, I have a huge difficulty in understanding how, I would say, in 90 % of situations it is not possible to have a timely forecast of the state's resource needs to meet public school. Therefore, to me, it is absurd that the sector where it is easier to stabilize is the one where there is greater instability. Of course, there are situations that can be marginal. Perhaps, within a few years, there will again be more French students than today and we do not know if there will be more Spanish or German students—there may be! — but, as far as it is essential, with all honesty, I have a lot of difficulty in understanding how it is not possible to stabilize the sector. So we want stability. There is a negotiating proposal that has been put forward and we are awaiting the union response. We will negotiate with an open and constructive spirit and, above all, with a view to ensuring full coverage of permanent needs, ensuring stability for all professionals who are needed to complete them and to put an end to this situation of absolute uncertainty. Of course, there will always be a scholarship, which it is necessary to have, to deal with situations that are possible. Of course that is necessary! But a scholarship for possible situations cannot be transformed into a rule and, above all, cannot be transformed into a sacrifice of lives that, for decades, live in a permanent uncertainty of having or not having work or whether they will work in Lagos, in Porto, in Guarda or in S. Miguel. No, this way of life is not acceptable! And more: the quality already obtained by public school would be even better if teachers and educators were not subject to this degree of instability in the career. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we have to work on stability. It is not as the right will say: "there are the spokespersons of Mário Nogueira and of FenPROF!" We are not spokespersons of Mário Nogueira and FenPROF, we are spokespersons of the will that we all have to have a public school of quality, that there is no basis for the precariousness of your teaching body. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u72	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u73	Mr President, Prime Minister, we shall certainly return to this subject. For the Left Block, it is essential that teachers that the school needs and that have dedicated their lives to it are linked and have full rights like all other workers and workers in this country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u74	Mr. Prime Minister, I can't stop talking in the General Deposit Box today, not exactly to accompany the PSD, because it has already been noticed that, in the case of the PSD, the Box is even the mirror of pure hypocrisy. The PSD today did not talk about wages, spoke about anything else, but spoke about wages a lot yesterday. We understand, in fact, that the PSD now has this battle in the Assembly of the Republic to pass a law that is in everything equal to that which allowed Fernando Pinto, in TAP, to win €423,000 per year, more prizes. Well, the Left Block, for that, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u75	Censorship committee!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u76	Here we are and we have always voted in conscience the projects, both about wages, and about transparency, and if the PSD were serious had voted in favour of the limitation of wages proposed by the Left Block, rather than abstained as the one who whistled to the side to stay in the same. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, of course we disagree on the limitation of wages in the Box. For the Left Block this matter would be well closed only if such a limitation existed. I must also say that it is not with satisfaction itself, as you will understand, but with a huge concern, that we see that the government, to lead the Box, chose Paulo Macedo, who was the Minister of Government that most privatized and put the problems of the bank under the carpet. That this is now the name indicated to manage the public bank is something that we cannot understand either. We accompany the government, yes, in the idea that Box is a public bank, wholly public, that the recapitalisation process is important and that Box is a solid bank and here we are to defend it. But, Mr. Prime Minister, we will not get into trouble under the carpet or pass drunks on to the past. That is why, in the same way that we continue to say that the millionaire wages are unacceptable, we are also in the Committee of Inquiry, committed to knowing what happened and so we can hold responsible for those who had harmful actions in the Box,....
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u77	A lot of talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u78	... but we also want to look at the future, Prime Minister, and we cannot have a « Caixinha » in Portugal. I have listened carefully to what you said about the restructuring of the Box, which is, indeed, what has already been said. But the Block on the Left considers that there is room for a deeper debate in the Assembly of the Republic on what is the public banking service. We need a General Deposit Box that remains the largest bank in the system, because it is very important for its stabilization. We need the Box to be present throughout the territory and with the largest Portuguese communities outside the country. We do not accept that there are redundancies in the Box and it is surely necessary to discuss what is the credit policy of the General Deposit Box, because it should be directed to the sectors of the productive economy and that they manage jobs. We must end, put an end to credit policies that served speculative games and power. So the Left Block believes it is essential that in the next year, in a few weeks, we have conditions here in Parliament to discuss this: what is the role of the public bank? Let us propose this debate to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u79	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u80	With this I shall finish, Mr. President. We are going to propose this debate to Parliament and we believe that it would be good for the Government to have a willingness to do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u81	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to two topics. First of all, on the question of wages, I do not agree with the Left Block, but I understand your position and consistency. I don't understand this is the PSD position because the legislation that previously existed did not limit wages, which was a fake ceiling. He said the limit was that of the Prime Minister's maturity, but it could be higher if the previous maturity was higher than that of the Prime Minister. So we had on the same team people doing equal work with an unequal salary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u83	The salary was not equal and the function was not equal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u84	That is, the salary was not in function of what they were doing but of what they had been doing. Therefore, they gained more or less not according to the function they were performing but according to the function they had been performing. This is completely absurd and unacceptable! Of two, one : or we adopted the criteria of the Left Block — it is an option that, as you know, I do not follow— or we adopt another principle, which is to have a fixed maturity for the Box. That's what we did, that is, we set a maturity for the Box. I know that we also do not agree with this criterion, but what we have been trying to do was to apply a criterion that corresponds to the average maturity for that sector of activity, so that the people to be recruited have the degree of professionalism that the task requires. That is what we have done and what we believe is necessary. Moreover, we do not want a « Caixinha », precisely we want the Box to be Box and, for that, it is necessary not only that it has capital to give it good use. Good management and good presence are needed. That is why in its restructuring plan, the Caixa will maintain a complete coverage of the national territory, its presence with Portuguese communities and in Portuguese-speaking countries. The international restructuring of Caixa will not fail to maintain it as a financial instrument for the service and in support of the internationalisation of Portuguese companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u85	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u86	I shall now conclude, Mr President. With regard to the reduction of staff, the plan which has been presented and which the Government has approved, does not provide for layoffs, provides for a progressive reduction taking into account the transition to reform or the procedures for the negotiation of friendly termination. That is what the plan foresees, does not provide for layoffs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u87	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u88	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am delighted to see you reply again to this House. In fact, I have something to show you, which is the number of days in which Mr Prime Minister has not been able to appear or respond to anything in this Parliament. [[At the moment, he displayed a picture, pointing out the number of days of absence of the Prime Minister in the Assembly.]] [[Ah!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u89	You can't see the picture here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u90	Save your count: it's 54 days! It is 54 days when we have not heard any explanation from Mr. Prime Minister. He managed to pass the State Budget all without us hearing his voice. in this house he explained nothing; out there, to the journalists, he declined to say something and even managed to give an interview to a television channel before he showed up here. I am sorry and, without prejudice to the importance of the issue that you have brought and that the CDS will certainly have all the willingness to debate, I have many questions to ask you, which have accumulated over these 54 days. The first question I would like to ask you, and on which, finally, it has been questioned, but in our view, it has not yet given a clear answer, it is very simple. We heard Mr. Prime Minister say that all the agreements he had made with the administration of the General Deposit Box had been fulfilled. We realize that there was an agreement that had to do with the question of wages, and this, in effect, was fulfilled, not with the CDS, but was met with a majority in this House. However, with regard to the agreement that exempts them from the obligation of information and transparency, we need to know whether it actually existed. I can also tell you, Prime Minister, that the CDS asked the Commission to provide all the information and all the exchange of e-mails made and, therefore, that this will be done, but it would give you the opportunity to tell us here whether this agreement, as regards the exemption of the obligation of information and transparency, existed or not. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u91	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u92	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, it is unfortunate that your graphic, which is beautiful, has not recorded the following fact: there has been no debate for the fortnight during these 54 days in which I should have been present. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u93	There was the State Budget and there was a great absence!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u94	Yeah, there was the State Budget... Madam Member, but if the Assembly of the Republic has been discussing the State budget, it has not marked fifteen-year debates and therefore I have not come to fifteen-year debates that did not exist! Today, the debate is marked for the fortnight, and here I am, with great pleasure, as I will be back here 15 days ago, to answer. Madam Member, I must tell you that I would be a bit hurt if I didn't think this matter is important, because I confess that it was also in your attention that I chose it. [[PS's and Green's laughs.]] This is because being your candidate for the country's main chamber, not to attribute to the topic of decentralization and to the strengthening of the power of the city, the proper importance would be something that would make me absolutely perplexed. [[P.S.'s applause and laughter.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u95	I've seen that we've won a vote in a place where we least expected!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u96	But, Madam Member, I see that it is in fact absolutely indifferent to you whether or not the General Deposit Box has capital, what your future will be, whether it will remain public or not. The only thing Mrs. Deputy wants to know is the little story of the relationship between the government and Dr. António Domingues. Of course, Dr. António Domingues will have much to tell the honourable Member about this matter. The government is not responsible for feeding a small story, and the only thing it is up to us is simply to say the following: all the commitments we have made, we have fulfilled! We have fulfilled the commitment that the appointment of the administration should be preceded by a green light in Brussels to the recapitalisation plan that has been presented; we have fulfilled the commitment — indeed, with many criticisms from everyone and much misunderstanding — that the General Deposit Box, either to the administration or to the workers, would be applied a different remuneration regime than was applied in the business sector of the State; we have fulfilled our commitment to exempt the administration of the Box from having the Public Manager Statute, which is reflected in the diploma approved by the Government, adopted by the President of the Republic, appreciated in this Assembly of the Republic even before the summer. And the honourable Member, who is a jurist, and more qualified than I, will have better conditions for interpreting and verifying that this diploma does not result in the exemption of the obligation to submit statements to the Constitutional Court. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u97	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u98	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, certainly on what is included, or not, in these public manager's obligations there will be many opinions and a lot of opportunity to raise arguments, but what Mr Prime Minister cannot steal is the vote on the Socialist Party's bench, which, I remember, you are Secretary-General, and you have voted in another way. from here I can only conclude that you have either breached your commitment to the General Deposit Box or later told them something that he was unable to comply with and failed to get the necessary support from the PCP and the Left Block to pass on to this House what had been your word. [[CDS-PP applause.]] About the General Deposit Box, I'm sorry, but you're wrong, Mr. Prime Minister, I have a lot more questions to ask you. The minutes are few, but I have a lot more questions to ask you. The second question I would like to ask you is about making bills. Mr. Prime Minister said something very serious that it was « the accounts of the General Deposit Box have been made up ». I want to know what evidence is that you have to support this statement—and the CDS has already requested it from the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. I recall that the previous administration of the General Deposit Box identified EUR 6 billion of inequalities. Is this what it calls accountant makeup? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u99	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I think that the Socialist Party did very well in voting against a rule that was absolutely useless, a mere political manifest, since it was limited to saying what the law already says is in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u101	Ah, it's useless! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u102	As for what you have said, as I have seen that the honourable Member has rightly quoted me, I have taken the liberty of bringing a transcribed copy. He said, and I repeat, that VV. Ex., while they were in the government, they resolved to make up the country's situation to simulate a clean exit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u103	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u104	The country paid for this simulation and paid for it, because the so-called clean output was wrong, it sucked with the resolution of BES and with the resolution of BANIF! If you had continued in the government and more resolutions would have been there, because you would continue to wash your hands like Pilate regarding the financial system situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u105	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u106	The honourable Member will be able to consult the work that the Committee of Inquiry has done on BANIF and will find there Commissioner Vestager's letter stating expressly that the resolution of the problem has been postponed to allow Portugal not to lose the time of the clean exit and that it was therefore the last deadline that would lead to the resolution of the BANIF problem, which ended in March 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u107	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u108	Mr Prime Minister should dedicate himself to literary creation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u109	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u110	Mr President, Prime Minister, I think the answer you gave is absolutely regrettable. You know why? Because we will take your answer seriously means we will pass a statement of incompetence to all national and foreign entities who have all come to control the accounts of the entire Portuguese financial system during these years. I believe that this is serious, regrettable, demonstrates irresponsibility and uncertainty on your part.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u112	But let me ask you something else, Prime Minister : about the capitalization of the General Deposit Box, why was it postponed to 2017? Are you guaranteed or not that it doesn't count for the deficit? This may also help explain your Banif options. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u114	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u115	Mr President, Madam Member, capitalisation is taking place on the schedule that is foreseen and under the conditions that are laid down. [[Protests from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] The imbalances will be stabilized and the amount of capitalisation will be fixed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u116	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u117	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am another day to those who, being present, do not answer our questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u118	It's 55 days already!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u119	It's 55 days! In relation to the General Deposit Box, I would like to hear about the mission to the General Deposit Box, because I haven't heard it specifically about it yet. I'm telling you this on the side of a party that has the very clear legitimacy of always defending a 100 % Public Deposit Box. But I would like to know what your mission is for the General Deposit Box. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u120	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u121	Mr President, Madam Member, I can reiterate that it is again the pillar of stability of the Portuguese financial system, the guarantee of savings for families and the instrument for the development of the Portuguese economy. This is the mission of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u122	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u123	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have to say that this is very little. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's very little because anyone, any entity, any government would say exactly that. So here we are to ask you specifically where will translate a different action from the General Deposit Box from here to the future. But let me move on to another subject, because I already realized that about the Box little or nothing answers. With regard to education, Mr Prime Minister, I must remind you of some things because perhaps the Minister of Education did not explain everything to you. These students who had an excellent result and are happy with congratulations, as well as with the congratulations of the teachers and parents, were students who did proof of measurement in 4. the year and examination number 6. the — this examination with which you have already finished — and come in a course of growing demand. However, you finished the 6 exams. the year and the evidence of the 4. the year, which had been transformed into exams, also cease to exist. It is also worth saying that in addition to the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment) there is another exam, the TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study) that accurately measured the result of the 4 students. the year in Mathematics and concluded that they improved substantially. Therefore, not only the 15-year-old students were evaluated, but the 4-year-olds were also evaluated. the year, which means that the path that had been taken by various governments, and significantly by the previous for the benefit of the requirement—because it gives equal conditions to all students—was sadly interrupted by its government. I ask whether you now recognise that it might be worth having some stability in education policies—as indeed the proposal that the CDS defended and presented in this six-year Chamber—that it might be possible, with calmness, transparency and objectivity, to analyze the results before resolving, in the middle of the year, to desist from changing everything. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u125	You have the floor, Prime Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u126	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, if there was a government that generated instability in education was the one in which you were a minister. [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] What I can tell you is that the result does not measure the demand, measures the success and is the success that we have to invest. This is why the evaluation method has been changed, so that it is done earlier, so that there is an opportunity to correct what is necessary. [[CDS-PP protests.]] This is because evaluation, in the end, when nothing is to be done, allows only to exclude and not teach. The function of the school is to teach for success, not to exclude by failure. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u127	You have the floor again, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u128	Mr President, Prime Minister, I regret that I have lost the opportunity to portray myself in the field of education because, of course, students, teachers and Portuguese families would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u129	Ah! Ah! Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u130	The principle of stability in education policies should be assumed as an extended consensus in this House and it is regrettable that you are not available for this. The CDS proposed stability for six years and even assumed it was based on the current proposals, although we think they are bad. [[CDS-PP applause.]] By the way, I have to tell you that the 2nd measure. the year seems to me to be early enough to be able to correct what will be corrected until 4. year! Or you want to start with measurements 1. the year? [[Protests of BE and PS MP João Galamba.]] It seems to me to do the 2nd measurement. the year is early enough to correct, fine-tun the shot and have good results. These good results, fortunately, nobody takes us away, but we can also see by the PISA evolution charts that when FENPROF sends the results fall. When governments are concerned about satisfying FENPROF and not working for the results of the students, the results are different. I therefore call on you to make a reflection on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u131	All right! [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u132	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u133	Mr President, I will end with a question that seems very relevant to me because it is another example of the famous seizures, or blind cuts, that all public services in the country are suffering. This year, for the first time, there will be no distribution of the European Aid Fund to the Most Deprived Persons ( EAFRD ). There were 400 000 families who received food via European money to support the needy and this year they will not receive them for the first time. My question is whether Mr. Prime Minister is aware of this matter and is planning to do something to avoid this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u134	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share your desire for stability, but, above all, I hope that we will never return to the educational policy that was pursued in the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u136	You must see the results!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u137	If we ensure the stability of the policy that is being pursued, I assure you that we will have better results. This stability is based on the Basic Law of the Education System, which is 30 years old, and for which successive governments have contributed from Prof. Cavaco Silva to what Mrs. He had very important moments, such as, and to give him the example of an initiative by a PSD government, the reform of secondary education by Minister David Justino. It was also crucial to reform the pre-school which was carried out in the Government of Eng.António Guterres. It was absolutely fundamental all the educational training program that was developed over many years and all the evaluation methodology,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u138	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u139	... as it was very important and decisive for the inclusion that have been created the Educational Territories of Priority Intervention ( TEIP ). That is why we have many of our students with more disadvantaged conditions with better results than in other countries. But just as you need to look at the good side of those numbers, you also need to look with concern at the bad side. And the bad side knows what it is? It's the very high retention rate that exists and that just means...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u140	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u141	...that an evaluation system based on exclusion...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u142	But it is not based on exclusion!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u143	...is not the best way to solve the retention problem. The best way of solving is to have an evaluation system that allows early intervention in order to ensure the successful completion of each education cycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u144	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u145	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would first of all like to thank Mr Passos Coelho for his good words to the CFP and our Congress. Mr. Prime Minister, we are concerned about the urgent need to find answers to make Portugal a more cohesive country. Of course, we do not devalue the role of decentralization, especially if we are oriented towards a power with a regional dimension that only the administrative regions can guarantee, as cannot be devalued, as it has been, the creation of conditions for municipalities to respond to their own competences, nor do we devalue, before we think that it is necessary to re-establish them, the ferries which have been liquidated, returning them to the people, because life is proving that their liquidation did not correspond to the strengthening of territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u147	But, Prime Minister, is it possible to have a real policy of territorial cohesion without a policy of sustained economic development in the country, subject to so many constraints and constraints? The question remains legitimate, but we would like to hear your opinion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u148	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u149	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I think the issues are linked. To achieve more sustainable development, we need to have a more valued territory where our endogenous resources are also fully valued. To that end, the strengthening of the powers of the democratic local power and its means of action are essential. Therefore, decentralization is also a contribution to economic growth. But the question I would like to ask is whether there are other limitations to our economic development. I answer that there is and it is necessary to make an effort and fight a battle to improve the European framework, particularly for our economic development. That is why we see the initiative which the European Commission has recently taken on a communication on a new budgetary policy in the different Member States, calling for greater budgetary growth in countries which have the greatest scope for this to happen, as well as the European Commission's concern about restoring investment as a central issue of development in the future. They are still insufficient initiatives, it is true, but even so initiatives that have strong opposition from several governments, as we have seen this week at the ECOFIN meeting. However, we have a duty to continue to fight for policy change and today the battle for policy change cannot be limited at national level, it must be a battle that needs to be extended to the whole of the European front, because it is in this global framework that we can find answers. And when we hear what the voters say in each country, what we see is that, unfortunately, Europe has been no longer a factor of confidence to be a factor of anxiety for the citizens. For those who believe — and I admit that we do not have the same belief there — in the European project as I believe it is absolutely imperative to have a reorientation of European policy in order to strengthen the confidence of citizens, which is not solved by speeches or measures in the abstract but with results, which have to do with the integration of refugees who ask for international protection, results in job creation, results in economic growth, results in combating inequalities. These are the results that citizens want to believe again in the European project and we need this change to have a better framework for our economic development, a more robust, sustainable and justly shared framework among all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u150	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the PCP Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u151	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have brought the bank problem here again. Our position on how this whole process has been conducted is known, as well as our reservations regarding Mr. Paulo Macedo's indigentity, especially because it is far from giving guarantees of a clear commitment to the public interest, as indeed it was revealed in the responsibilities it has assumed in the previous Government. But it's been a long time, too long. How much longer will it take to put the General Deposit Box working with a stable solution?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u152	All right! Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u153	Another problem is that of the New Bank. The Government, the ECB and Banco de Portugal insist on the sale of the New Bank at a time when the country most needs a financial system at the service of the country's development. An expected sale with large losses to the State, which already has EUR 4, EUR 9 billion, and with the transfer of its capital once again to the hands of foreigners. Why not integrate the New Bank into the public sphere, Prime Minister, by safeguarding public money and ensuring a new instrument for the dynamisation of the economy, in accordance with national interests? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u154	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. Mr Prime Minister — Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, on the first issue on the stability of the Box, I would like to tell you that the Box maintains its normal activity, the resignation administration remains in office and working with the new team in the transition. at this time, the constitution of the new team is being completed, which will be submitted to the evaluation by the supervisory bodies that have to approve its appointment. I believe that no one wants to repeat what happened at the beginning of the appointment of the previous administration, which is to submit names which, after that, do not have conditions for the exercise of the mandate. The information I have is that we will soon have the situation in the General Deposit Box stabilized and fully implemented the plans that have to be implemented. As far as the New Bank is concerned, I am sorry to say nothing again about the last time you asked me the question, but as you know, it is a process being conducted by the Banco de Portugal, and the Government is awaiting the conclusion of this negotiation by the Banco de Portugal. I believe that whatever we say now or conditions the Banco de Portugal or disturbs the negotiation process. When we receive the Banco de Portugal proposal, we will assess and, on the basis of that, make a decision in accordance with what we consider to be the best solution from the political, economic and financial point of view for the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u155	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u156	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are coming to the end of another year, a year marked by important advances in the replacement of Portuguese income and rights, and others are expected for the coming year with the recent approval of the State budget. A time that deals with the sad years of economic regression and social regression, imposed by the previous government, and advances that have taken account of our proposal, with our contribution, our action, with regard to wages, reforms and pensions, family allowances, the freeness of school textbooks, measures to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, in support of arts and culture, among others. But if we recognize and value the advances, we do not mislead limitations, inadequacies and serious problems that continue to exist socially. Of course, the necessary response and overcoming the serious social problems that have become Portugal in a country that is increasingly unequal and unfair, as a result of unemployment, precariousness, low wages and, therefore, we propose that the minimum order be increased to 600 € from the beginning of next year, new steps in the response to the overcoming of many unjust situations that remain, for example, the very strong penalties that are the target of the long contributing careers that impose cuts in reforms in an unacceptable way. We have defended and maintained that those who have 40 years of work and contributions should not have cuts in their reforms. The country needs to value those who work for a lifetime. What does the government think about these problems, Prime Minister? New steps are needed to solve problems that are not today and have long been in need of a solution, such as the need for human resources in hospital emergencies. We are approaching a critical time for the emergencies of the National Health Service and are known the difficulties in forming teams to provide services in hospitals. Recent studies confirm the view that the lack of health professionals has long led to the exhaustion of those who develop their activity in these services. They need answers, Prime Minister. We could say the same thing to solve the serious situation in the transport sector. Today we have a chaotic situation in public transport. Metro, Transtejo and Soflusa are in a state of rupture. Privatization and departure of workers, non-renewal and lack of maintenance of fleets led to situations of drastic mobility conditioning of populations. Last Monday, thousands of people stayed on the other side of the Tagus, without access to Lisbon. in a total of 22 boats, only eight are active. This is a situation that cannot continue... [[PSD protests.]] The gentlemen. PSD members can well clean their hands to the wall because they are responsible for the degradation of structures, means and number of workers. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Do not speak loudly because we do not forget your direct responsibilities in the degradation of public transport. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u157	But, Prime Minister, in any case, it is not just a matter of the past and this government should give answers, at present, to improve these social situations that exist. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u158	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u159	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I will try to be a telegraph for not leaving any of the questions to answer. As regards the national minimum wage, the Government Programme provides for a phase-out of annual increases of up to €600 in 2019. We proposed in social consultation what is contained in the Government Programme, i.e. an increase to €557, which is an increase that goes beyond mere replenishment of inflation and productivity, which would be €540, but corresponds to what is in the Government Programme and is an effort to reduce the fight against inequalities. at present, the deadline for the social partners to respond to the Government's proposal is now running until 19, and we are waiting for their answers to see whether there are conditions of agreement, as we wish, or if there are no terms of agreement, and we may have to move forward without agreement in fixing the national minimum wage. Secondly, and with regard to contributing careers, we fully share the concern about this situation, which is indeed a specific situation of a generation. In the State Budget we have given a first signal and until the beginning of January we will present in the Assembly a legislative initiative to differentiate the treatment that is due to long-term tax careers, which have to be treated in a different way, in order to ensure fair treatment to those who began to work often with 10, 11, 12 years and had a life of sacrifice and work that has to be recognized. With regard to the National Health Service, we have made a great effort this year to replace situations of deficiency. at this time, in the entire National Health Service, we have more than 3100 professionals than we had last year. It is still insufficient, such the impoverishment that the National Health Service has suffered over the last four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u160	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u161	That is why we are making this effort, as we are going to make an effort in 2017 for transport companies. As you know, the State budget approved here a week ago provides for the strengthening of the appropriations of transport undertakings so that they have effective conditions for providing the public service of quality which is essential to mobility, particularly in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u162	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u163	Mr President, Prime Minister, as is known to the public, Spain has decided to build a nuclear waste store at the Portuguese border to serve and prolong the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. Now, the truth is that a structure of this nature has cross-border impacts, given the proximity, and it happens that Spain has completely ignored Portugal. In view of this, the Minister for the Environment has released the claws, said he would contact the Spanish Government and, if he hadn't heard, he would do this and that and that would happen. But, Prime Minister, it is clear that the Minister for the Environment has not been heard and that the Spanish Government has, in fact, completely ignored it. In view of this, I wonder what the Prime Minister does in a situation like this, which has clear and serious impacts in the country, particularly on the river Tejo, in a situation where the Spanish Government completely ignores the Portuguese Government? What steps are you taking? Mr. Prime Minister, on the General Deposit Box, I would like to say the following: as Mr. Prime Minister repaires, and all Portuguese ment, there are certain political forces—in particular those that have composed the previous government made a great deal of it—which have treated public services, public enterprises and the public bank in a way that gradually goes downgrading the public thing so that one day one day comes to a brilliant conclusion that the only possible solution would be privatize, such was not the degradation of public management! That was the goal! There are other political forces, where The Greens integrate, which consider it important to strengthen public services, public enterprises and the public bank, giving it strength and robustness to serve the Portuguese, to serve the country, to serve and dynamize the economy. Mr. Prime Minister, Paulo Macedo belongs to the first group, belongs to the group of those who sought to liquidate public services—in particular he had great responsibility in the area of health—to gradually fall into a pit and one day it was necessary to privatize. And the government opts to put this personality in front of the General Deposit Box. That is why I would like to tell you briefly, Prime Minister, that Paulo Macedo represents, in our perspective, a potential threat to a true public service of the General Deposit Box. And we, Prime Minister, want to be sure that the capitalization of the General Deposit Box guarantees a reinforcement for the country and for the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u164	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u165	I'm done now, Mr. President. Regarding the salaries of the administrators of the General Deposit Box, Mr. Prime Minister said, and very well, that it was a political option. It is a political option, Mr Prime Minister, with which the Greens do not agree, in a country where the national minimum wage is still far from the 600 € that would be due.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u166	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u167	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on her first question, I must say that the Spanish Government has sent the Portuguese Government all the documentation relating to the environmental impact study carried out. In my working visit to the new President of the Government, I addressed the issue and, following this, the Minister for the Environment of Spain invited the Minister of the Environment of Portugal to go to Spain to make a joint assessment, not only of the study, but to provide all the information. The Spanish Government is fully aware that for Portugal this is a central issue and what was guaranteed to me by President Rajoy is that it will ensure all transparency, all information regarding any decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u168	It's not just information!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u169	I know that this is more than information and participation is also provided for in the Treaty in respect of projects which have a cross-border impact. Therefore, the Government is working with the Government of Spain. We all know that the last year has been complex in Spain, and perhaps for that reason things will have been less oiled. I felt no attempt on the part of the Spanish Government to hide or hinder the good relationship and due participation of the Portuguese authorities in this process. Secondly, I share the view that there is no decent society without strong public services and that they guarantee equity. I think it is essential for our financial system to have a 100 % General Deposit Box, exclusively public and definitely 100 % public. That is our vision and that is the mandate given to Dr. Paulo Macedo. Dr. Paulo Macedo does not ignore it; if he disagreed with him he would certainly not have accepted it and we are confident that he has the conditions to carry out the mandate entrusted to him, because if we did not have that trust of course that we would not have given him the invitation. I'm not running away to the last question you asked me, which I know is unpopular. In fact, there is a problem that is difficult to accept and admit to in the most developed societies, which is today the huge disparity of incomes that exist between the poorest and the most winning. It is absolutely essential to combat inequalities and this fight must be done with measures such as updating the minimum wage above inflation and above the productivity rate, it must be done through the social policies as a whole; it must be done with the solidarity complement for the elderly, it must be done with a set of instruments that effectively enable this degree of inequality to be reduced. Is the wage level shocking in certain activities? Yeah, it's shocking. On the other day, Mrs Catarina Martins compared the responsibilities of those in charge of government and those in charge of the administration of a bank. I could make another comparison, so you don't think I'm judging myself. Do people have difficulty understanding income disparity? Yeah, people have that difficulty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u170	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u171	But, to me, there is something that is absolutely clear: we must fight inequality and have a good public bank, such as the General Deposit Box, is essential for this fight. But if I want to have a good public bank, I have to have the same conditions as other banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u172	They won a lot and they were very inconvenient!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u173	in the same way that if, absurdly, we decided one day to have a state football team, we could not have players with a salary limited to the Prime Minister's salary, because, as you know, there would be no players to play on that team.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u174	Mr. Prime Minister, you have long exceeded the time you had. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u175	Therefore, if we want to have a professionally managed public bank, we have to pay what is paid in the sector, even if we have to recognize that what is paid in the sector for certain functions is obviously shocking about the average maturity of the common Portuguese. It is obvious that it is shocking, it shocks me too, but this is reality and we cannot overthrow it in the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u176	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u177	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Portuguese Communist Party and its Secretary-General for the recent implementation of the XX Congress and also welcoming their commitment to building a more just and more supportive country. In fact, in this debate today, it is particularly clear what divides the parties that support the government and those who are currently in opposition, because the opposition continues to combine the two axes which unfortunately have been used to. On the one hand, a stubborn desire to rewrite History and to note that the last four years have not happened, to realize that there were no governmental responsibilities of the PSD and the CDS and that the past was back there and that, for both this moment and for any debate we have in this House, it does not matter. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u178	On the other hand, it combines what I just said with a second axis, the axis in which there is a total inability to present a coherent speech and, even in the way the government criticizes, it is unable to have a coherent, stable direction, which could possibly show greater quality of the opposition. [[PSD protests.]] This was particularly clear during this debate, already at four points. When there was little comment about transport, the degradation of public services replied: « Responsibility of the former majority? No way! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Is it ever the responsibility of the former Executive to de-investment in collective transport? Oh, my God! Is it ever the responsibility of the previous majority not to recruit staff? Oh, my God! Is it ever the responsibility of the previous majority to de-investment in mathematics? Oh, my God! Not at all! in this debate all the opposition people here have been born in this House this morning and have no responsibility for the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we look at the debate on local authorities, the issue that the Government here brought us today, apparently there are expressions of will of reform on the part of the opposition, once again, forgetting that the only reformer or allegedly reformer legacy it presented was the extinction of about 1000 parish, without any study, without any ability to check whether there are criteria, will and resources of proximity to play roles that must be played by local authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then we get to education. And education is surely the most illustrative of all cases where you want to rewrite reality. Interestingly, the results of the PISA report are an element of satisfaction for all, because they confirm trends of 20 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] First, they confirm a consistent improvement in mathematics, reading and scientific literature. I would say that what was missing today to the PSD and CDS were skills of mathematics, literacy and reading. Indeed, if they had read the PISA report with the attention it deserved they would have found that it confirms the existence of a clear direction in public education policies over the past few years, that even the previous government action was not able to stop. [[PSD laughter.]] And the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, laugh! It is your response to a structured element, a scientific result, studied, with indicators that compare every year. See, if you had read the Report carefully you would find that there are data on developments every three years and every three years Portugal is improving about seven points in relation to its partners. So much so that for the first time it appears above the OECD average. But none of the results shown here is a direct effect of previous government action. [[PSD protests.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u179	None of the measurements found here, either with regard to the curricular goals or with regard to the performance of the tests, correspond to what has been done over the past four years. Indeed, there has been a potentially harmful shift towards the quality of public school. A public school that is not inclusive is, of course, a public school that devalues the most fragile and those for which it was created and plays a role. [[Congrats from PS MP João Galamba.]] And, in this debate, to forget precisely this role is to fail, along with the catastrophic theses that the previous Minister of Education brought. If anything about the PISA report today is that there were no « educators», there was neither facilitation nor laxism in public school, on the contrary, what consistently existed was the improvement of indicators,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... was a strengthening of public policies which, obviously, cannot be followed by uninvestment in human resources and infrastructure and which was, fortunately, the direction that the current government has reversed. Thanks to him, today we are facing the future in public school with a capacity that we would not have had the public policies of the previous government continued. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] This argumentative line throughout this afternoon also continued again in relation to the General Deposit Box. The oppositions have endeavoured to dramatize and seek to create problems in an irresponsible way, at a time when effectively strengthening the capacity of the public bank to respond to those axes which have already been so clearly identified as priorities: a bank 100 % public, with capital needed to respond to problems and to be a pillar of the financial system, a bank that guarantees savings and dynamizes the economy, dealing with a very clear and well-proven mission by Mr. Prime Minister. But I ask: does the opposition leader have the same ability, with all clarity, to say in this House, without any lukewarmness or hesitation, that has never passed through his head the privatization of the General Deposit Box? What has never put on the agenda the commitment of a fundamental pillar of public policies to the financial system? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It does not have that capacity because, over a long period of time, as regards public policies, what we had was a desire to reverse the role of the General Deposit Box and, on the other hand, at the level of the fundamental monitoring task, it has been clear, throughout this week, that the uncomfortable sense of the opposition side because, once again, the Court of Auditors shows, in the report on the State's business sector, everything they have not done, everything they have not guarded and everything they have contributed to the situation that today's government has to resolve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The opposition can also look for other examples, trying to reinvent itself. In the way they have addressed the problem of the General Deposit Box, the recent initiative of the PSD — or the one announced — that it would promote the supervision of the constitutionality of the diploma relating to this matter is once again fully charged, in the sense that it reveals a profound personality change. The parliamentary group for which the Constitution was a detail for four years and which manages to mingle 20 — I repeat, 20! — decisions of unconstitutionality in structural matters on fundamental rights, suddenly, is concerned about the possibility of an organic-formal problem, in the adoption of a diploma, to be catastrophic! Therefore, without prejudice to the total tranquility with which the Government and Mr. President of the Republic view legislative activity, and once again, without wanting to cause any institutional conflict, any initiative that may come from the PSD bench will be confronted. But with one certainty: it is not in order to provoke any institutional conflict or to attempt to shoot "the sand for the eyes" of the people at the moment when it is seen that the direction for the General Deposit Box finally exists that the difficulty of having arguments in this debate by the opposition will likely be changed. Finally, and because this was the subject chosen by the Government to address this debate, I would like to focus on what is a concern of the Government and the Portuguese - we have spent about two thirds of the time talking about other matters, but this is also a structural issue. Once again, what the Government has presented is clarity of purpose, clarity of what it has stated in its electoral programme, which it has announced in its Government Programme and which is linked with a strategy to effectively reform the state. And reforming the state is not putting out the window institutions that are valid and that must play their role. Reforming the State is not to draw on the knee legislative changes and last-minute to the functioning of secular institutions. By the way, I remember that we commemorate the 40 years of the democratic constitution and the first elections for local power, but we also commemorate 180 years of the first effectively decentralizing administrative code, of Passos Manuel, that this government is again putting on the right line. From purposeless, aimless and planless centralizing experiences, this in fact, the last four years have been enough for the country and the Portuguese. We can also look—and now I leave a note to Mrs Asunción Cristas, who may be useful to you in other actions—for what can be a good administrative reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u180	I'm sorry to hear you're worried about my actions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u181	And the city of Lisbon also offers, precisely, the design which the Government today seeks to bring to the whole country, which is to identify the level of governance at which it is most useful to make an intervention and ensure governance, allocate the human resources necessary for that purpose and to ensure the safe and stable functioning of local authorities' bodies. Here's a good example, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. And I think we can learn from the good examples and extend them to the rest of the country, by reviewing what is the map of Public Administration, adding a dose, which has also been ignored over the past four years, that of administrative modernization, that of the modernization of services and how services should not only be of proximity as well as of speed and capacity to use new technologies, that is, all that, for four years, very affectionately, I imagine, have kept in the deeper drawer of Gomes Teixeira, but which, fortunately, has seen the light of the day again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u182	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u183	And, fortunately, both in the supra-municipal plane, both in the municipal plane and in the parish plane, either in terms of articulation according to the principle of subsidiarity at all these levels, the current government, once again and finally, brings us a reform worthy of that name, a structural reform, fundamental for the country, which it can finally conclude. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u184	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u185	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. I am pleased to see that the main party that supports this government is on the reform agenda that the Government presents and, in particular, on the decentraliser programme, of confidence in our municipalities, in our parish, in the metropolitan areas and in its capacity to grow and assume greater responsibilities within the coordination and regional development committees (CDR). This debate was quite illustrative of the strategy that the PSD has — and sometimes also the CDS, but above all the PSD — in relation to the country's situation. Run 'as the devil of the cross' to debate any substance problem, any fundamental issue. What interests them is the diverse facts and the small stories, which are punctuating here or there, the incidents that happen in any circumstance. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] On the financial system, we admitted that the PSD had already had the humility that the European Commission had in its last assessment report on the implementation of the adjustment programme, recognizing that the major error of this programme was, in Portugal, contrary to what happened, for example, in Spain, there was no priority to tackle and solve the problems of the financial system and to leave these problems to be solved. The IMF report, assessing its programme, highlights exactly the same. And this PSD option wasn't a random option, it wasn't distraction, it wasn't incompetence. What happened was that, at the time of the adjustment programme, it was about diabolicizing everything that was public to destroy the state and not solving the actual problems of the crisis in which we had been immersed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the fact is that the previous government has passively accepted that a bank such as the BES had been allowed to say that it did not need the funds made available by the troika for its capitalisation, to end up being resolved by the government, destroying value and creating enormous damage to the Portuguese economy. How can it be safely accepted that part of the funds made available by the troika for the capitalisation of the bank were to be used as if they were not necessary to have stronger, more capitalised banks and better conditions to finance the economy? How was it possible, over those years, knowing that one of the main Portuguese banks was obliged by the supervisory institutions to deconsolidate their international participation in Angola, that nothing had been done to prevent a blocking of the shareholder situation and overcoming this situation? How has it been possible, over all those years, to ignore the successive opportunities which the European Commission has offered to solve the Banif problem and which would have prevented the destruction of Banif? Oh, my God! Also in March 2015, the European Commission said that it was possible for BANIF to survive as a bank in the autonomous regions, as an emigration bank, without the need to resolve BANIF, as it had done, because the previous government rejected all the time limits imposed on it in writing to resolve the Bank's situation. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] How was it possible for the previous government to have "washed its hands as Pilates" in the face of the human dramas of the injured of BES? And we all remember one of the darkest moments in Portuguese politics, which was to see the then Prime Minister say, in relation to a fundamental right such as access to justice, that he was so sorry for the damage done by the BES that he was even available to contribute his pocket so that they could use the court to defend his rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what rule of law is this where the Prime Minister contributes his purse to help defend fundamental rights? Oh, my God! No, a decent society is not a society based on charity! in a decent society, fundamental rights are guaranteed through good public services, quality, accessible justice and that solves and responds to problems! And indeed, what we have been doing over the course of this year, consuming a lot of energy and time, is solving this situation that has to be resolved by the previous government. Fortunately, we can arrive at the end of this year looking to 2017 with a calm that unfortunately we haven't had in a few months. And we can do that, why? Because, poorly all the episodes regarding the composition of the Box administration, the Box problem is solved. It is that the problem of Caixa was solved by providing it with the capital needed for it to survive as a 100 % public bank and to play the role it has to play in the service of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, banks have clarified the impact on their balance sheets — which clearly made it clear that any external investor who wanted to capitalise on them — both the DTAs (Deferred Tax Assets ) and their responsibilities towards the Resolution Fund. These are criteria which are clarified today and which create good conditions for these private banks to be properly capitalised by using foreign investment and which we hope will allow the Banco de Portugal to find a good solution for the future of the New Bank. We are in good progress and in completion of the entire process of assessing the situation of the damage caused by BES, which will finally allow us to have a solution that can reduce the major damage suffered by the way in which the Bank's resolution process has been conducted. And we are in dialogue with Banif, who have not yet found an answer to their situation, so that there can be a cost-free solution for the taxpayer, which will reduce the damage they have suffered with this need for resolution. That is why we can say with all the legitimacy that we have made over this year on the financial system an effort which unfortunately would not have been necessary if it had already been done in due course. And if it had been done when it was done in Spain, perhaps today our economy would have the conditions of performance that the Spanish economy is already having, thanks to a stabilized financial system, which allows it to have conditions of financing, tranquility and growth of the economy that are absolutely decisive, despite the political crisis that has lived over a year. Fortunately, we are closing a year in which, for the first time, we will meet the criteria of our participation in the euro. It will also be the year in which we will be able to turn the page of uncertainty about our financial system and enter 2017 with confidence added to the attraction of investment, job creation and to have more precisely shared wealth in our country. That is the work and that is what we are focused on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And in order for this to happen, Mr President, it is necessary that, beyond this stage, I would say urgently in order to solve the remaining dramas, we concentrate on the essential thing, which is the implementation of the National Reform Programme ( PNR ). The PNR, which is all the essential reforms to solve the structural blockades of our economy, the qualification of people, the innovation of businesses, the modernization of the state, the enhancement of the territory, the capitalization of businesses, the eradication of poverty and the reduction of inequalities. These are the fundamental and structural axes of the change of policy that we have been pursuing and on which we must focus. decentralization is an essential axis and it will be here on the table in January to start this debate. And in this debate we all have, in particular, the good proposals in which the PSD has been working and which will certainly enrich our debate very positively. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u186	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists of a debate, with the participation of the Prime Minister, preparatory to the next European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. in the first phase, we will have an opening by the Government, which will follow a stage of debate and a final closure. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next European Council will focus on migration issues, internal and external security, economic and social development and youth. It is a European Council that will continue the road map set in Bratislava and that should be completed in March at the European Council in Rome, focusing on the future themes of the European Union. The draft conclusions have already been circulated and we consider that it is globally balanced in its different dimensions. Having no time to talk about all these matters, I would concentrate on two things that seem particularly urgent and important to me. The first is about migration. We cannot have the illusion that the migration crisis has been overcome and that the Central Mediterranean routes, along with Italy, and also the Western Mediterranean, towards Spain, have increased and require an active response from all of us. This active participation involves, inter alia, a strengthening of action at the external borders and it is important for us in this Council to be able to make a first assessment of the functioning of the coastal guard and border guards, whose operation began last October. There is a second dimension to what is essential, which is the implementation of the partnership framework with African countries, with a view to reducing the pressure on migration flows and ensuring, within the framework of the neighbourhood policy, the implementation of the ambitious plan that has been set for Africa, with a view to reducing that pressure. There are aspects for us that are absolutely essential. We support the need for a review of the common asylum policy. But we are firmly convinced that this review cannot sacrifice something that is absolutely essential, which is the duty of solidarity between all Member States, that is to share together the responsibility that the European Union has to receive and ensure international protection for all those who, victims of persecution, war, calamities of any kind, seek in the European Union the international protection they have right and that it is a fundamental right of humanity that we cannot fail to honour and thus assure. On the other hand, the second point I would like to stress is what has to do with economic and social development. As I have recently had the opportunity to say, in reply to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the Government sees as very positive the Commission's communication on budgetary policy in the context of the different Member States. We believe that this is a fundamental change in the reorientation of economic policy, with a view to, for the first time, an aggregate orientation of budgetary expansion in the euro area as a whole. The Council will have the opportunity to make a positive assessment and to propose to the European Parliament the extension of the implementation of the so-called Juncker Plan, which is a very significant and relevant collective commitment to increase investment, an essential condition for overcoming the prolonged stagnation. Portugal, which is the tenth Member State which has so far made the most use of the opportunities of the Juncker Plan, will certainly be a State which will strongly support its development. Finally, with regard to youth, at European level, I believe that the situation in which the new generations are located is critical and there is a need to continue the responses already found in the Youth Employment Initiative. But it is also necessary to support new initiatives, such as the recent proposal by President Juncker to set up a European solidarity body to enable a set of young people who are disabled, in order to contribute to their integration into the community as a whole of the Union, to their return to activity and to improve levels of employability. These are two themes that seem absolutely central. The signs we have from all Member States are that, in order to strengthen itself, the European Union must be able to respond concretely and positively to the wishes of its citizens. And these aspirations are not abstract, they are concrete: citizens want security against the terrorist threat, they want security at their external borders, they want solidarity in sharing responsibility, whether the reception of refugees, whether the economic convergence effort of the less developed economies, and they want, above all, regulation of the global market, with an active participation by the European Union in regulating global markets, more growth, more employment — in short, they want greater security and confidence in the future of Europeans, within the framework of Europe. That is what the citizens want, that is what we have to be able to answer if we want to strengthen the European Union and if we do not want to let the European Union weaken, election after election, country after country. We have to resist, we have a duty to resist, that is what History teaches us and it is in this History that we must inspire ourselves to look at our common future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u188	Let us start the debate. For an intervention, Mr Miguel Morgado of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin, Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u190	For the General Deposit Box?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u191	... by referring to two points which you mentioned in your initial intervention. First, the Prime Minister welcomed the European Commission's initiative to recommend a budgetary position for the euro area as a whole. We also welcome it, until 2015 because it was that we, the previous government, proposed that this recommendation be precisely for the euro zone as a whole. But Mr Prime Minister did not mention that, at the Eurogroup meeting, the European Commission's recommendation was rejected. And now it is worth asking what the Minister of Finance of Portugal said, because nothing has been reflected in this, nor in the communiqué, nor in the intervention of the Minister of Finance himself that followed. And since we speak in the Eurogroup, let me also ask you whether the Eurogroup repeats what the European Commission had said about the 2017 Budget, in order to avoid any structural adjustment - will be 0 % when the commitment was 0, 6 %. It is that the Eurogroup communiqué mentions that it welcomes the commitment of the Portuguese Government to the additional measures that will be necessary. I would like to ask whether it is possible to tell us what this commitment is, or whether it will happen as in the Budget for this year, in which we will be familiar with plan b only at the end of the year, probably in 2017, following the elections. But then he asked us to explain what commitment that is. The other point he mentioned and which is also of great importance concerns something on the Council's agenda regarding young employment and active employment policies for younger workers. We assume that the Government and the Prime Minister will defend precisely the extension of the Youth Guarantee programme and the strengthening of these initiatives. But let me tell you that there is a lot of work that the government has to do, not in Brussels, but here, because, looking at the data from the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training (IEFP) for October, we have seen very considerable cuts, precisely in the programmes for younger workers. In the case of young qualifications, we are talking about cuts of more than one fifth in terms of the funds and much more than one third in terms of the population concerned. So don't forget to defend Portugal's interests in Brussels, but see where you have a lot of work to do here, in Lisbon and Portugal. As for the rest of the European Council's agenda, which is also very focused on the issue of deepening cooperation, defence and external security, I have some questions to ask you and I would like you to give a concrete answer as far as possible. First of all, we know that this movement that is taking place in Europe corresponds to the reaction, let us say, to the American challenge for the Member States of the European Union belonging to NATO ( Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty ) to increase their national budgets with regard to defence expenditure. The very concrete question is: will the government increase the costs of defence? Yes or no? Are you going to increase them for the year or in the following years? The other point concerns the issue of sanctions against Russia. Until this week, we thought that there was only one doctrine in the Government of Portugal — as there should be — on sanctions against Russia and that this doctrine had been exposed by you, Prime Minister, when, in essence, you repeated a thesis identical to that of the Hungarian government of Viktor Orbán, which says that sanctions are counterproductive, harm national economies and do not affect Russia and that we should go through a phase of cooperation. That was the doctrine until a few weeks ago, when Mr. Prime Minister spoke on this matter. It happens that on Monday there was a joint hearing by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for National Defence, and we learned that there are, after all, three doctrines. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, with wisdom, being faithful to the spirit of the Warsaw Declaration and to the bond we have with our allies, said that we cannot revisit the issue of sanctions against Russia until there is implementation of the Minsk Agreement, which is reasonable and sensible. But the Minister of National Defence, the following minute, has advanced a new doctrine that is not even its own, is the doctrine that sanctions are, in all circumstances, bad. So on such an important subject as this, I would like Parliament to know what the Portuguese government's doctrine is because this kind of divergence is extremely dangerous. There is also an item on the Council's agenda on Syria. And it was good for the Prime Minister to tell us here, in Parliament, not only what discussions the European leaders have about Syria, but also what the Portuguese Government's contribution to this, because no one knows what the European roadmap for peace in Syria is, nor does anyone know what Europe or the Portuguese government has to do with what Syria may be for in the post-war period. It gives the idea that Europe and the Portuguese Government will be satisfied with what is decided on the battlefield between the United States, France, Saudi Arabia, Iran and Russia. If so, it is good to be told to be warned, but it is not a good policy or a contribution to the relevance of Europe in the international scene. Finally, in an interview that gave a television channel a few days ago, Mr. Prime Minister took up the subject of debt renegotiation. Obviously, he wanted to pacify the parliamentary coalition of support to the Government, but let me tell him, by doing so, he placed the interests of that government coalition, or of that parliamentary support coalition to the Government, in front of the interests of the Portuguese. Notice: I told you that for a year, nothing will happen until the elections in Germany, but this debate on European renegotiation is required. It exposes the Portuguese to a totally unnecessary and avoidable risk when the situation in Italy is not particularly conducive to confidence—and that also concerns Italian debt—and it is precisely at this moment of greater vulnerability that the Prime Minister of Portugal puts the problem on the table. And, well, with so much that can happen here for a year, imagine that if people take seriously what they said in this interview and nothing happens according to their forecasts that there will be a great openness to this debt renegotiation...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u192	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u193	I will finish, Mr. President. If people take it seriously, the only thing that will survive is that there will be no renegotiation of debt and that the Prime Minister of Portugal does not believe in the sustainability of his own debt. This is to expose the Portuguese to a tremendous and totally avoidable risk. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u194	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u195	Mr President, Prime Minister : The greatest risk the country is if it does not face the problems it has and therefore it is important to recognise that it is necessary to restructure public debt and we have expected to hear it speak about it. Sweeping problems under the carpet always brings bad results. But it is necessary to look at the destruction that has been done so far to recognize this inevitability and also to look at the extreme vulnerability in which our country is to realize the urgency of making the recognition of the need for the restructuring of public debt an effective policy for debt restructuring. If the European Central Bank were to interrupt the debt buy-in programme on secondary markets, Portugal, like other European countries, from then on some with the biggest economies such as Spain or Italy could be in insolvency or at least with absolutely unsustainable costs in terms of debt interest. The vulnerability of our country has to do with the fact that the European Central Bank has a decision that is entirely political and even discretionary. And it is enough of a word from the European Central Bank to the DBRS rating agency for the programme to finish. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] So we are dependent on the common sense of European institutions, something that no one can believe exists at the end of 2016. And if for Germany, because it is Germany, everything will go well, and for France, because it is France, everything will go well, we know that Portugal, like Portugal, is always subject to sanctions and blackmail. Therefore, for us, it is worrying that the Prime Minister expects the European institutions to have a green light for a debt restructuring process that everyone already recognizes is urgent. If in 2011 there were few of us to defend that debt restructuring was the answer that the troika would never bring us out of the crisis, the path made from there, from the « 74 manifesto » until we reached 2016 in this situation where economists like Victor Bento, Manuela Ferreira Leite and now even Teodora Cardoso recognize it is necessary to restructure the debt, only shows how urgent this path is. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Therefore, Prime Minister, for the Left Block the next European Council should have on the agenda the restructuring of the public debt of the countries which are victims of the euro's asymmetries and rules. And instead, at the last meeting of the Eurogroup, Schäuble banned this debate and put it in the drawer. In 2015 Greece accepted a new rescue in return for the guarantee of restructuring, and remains waiting. The Italian Prime Minister, Matteo Renzi, was presented by the Portuguese Socialist Party as the hope of placing this debate on European bodies. He left without ever having asked the question, and Italy is still waiting. For years Germany has said that soon, Europe is still waiting and is in an increasingly complicated situation. He who waits for shoes of the dead dies barefoot, such as the proverb or the film of César Monteiro. And we mustn't, we can't wait. The country must have a proposal prepared. Debt restructuring is not an end in itself, it is an instrument that we now need to cancel the deficit and create additional margin for a public investment programme that revives the economy for robust growth that generates jobs and, now, quality employment. At the next European Council, Portugal must stop waiting and assume the need for restructuring of public debt. It is more than time to put the topic on the table and Portugal can and should do so. Restructuring debt is almost a consensus. It lacks the courage to assume that this will have to be done and, if necessary, will happen by a sovereign act of an independent country. It's hard, but it has to be done. And, Prime Minister, if the idea of the government is to wait for Mrs Merkel's permission, although they are all sitting, because that is certainly not good news for the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u196	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : The European Council of 15 and 16 December will be the last of this year and, in this sense, it is the last opportunity to try to make a good impression, to give some hope for next year, after a year which was marked by the greatest institutional crisis the European Union has ever experienced. This institutional crisis is very visible because of migration, which caused the collapse of the European decision-making system, which destroyed the Schengen system and destroyed much of the solidarity between the European governments. This crisis is also marked by Brexit and we have all realized that the European integration project is not, in this sense, irreversible. It is a crisis marked by the terrorist phenomena that have plagued Europe and, in this sense, are a threat to freedom, security, justice, which are essential values of democratic states, and, of course, the economic and financial crisis has also brought too much stagnation to European growth and an unprecedented level of unemployment. All these problems are complex and complex problems do not have simple solutions, as many throughout Europe want us to believe. Many, from the extreme left and the extreme right, who see gaining weight in polls and polls try to have easy solutions to these problems, but we know that they are, uniquely and exclusively, the left face of this populism. I speak of populism, which is often nationalistic matrix, anti-globalisation, anti-European integration, anti-euro, anti-free movement and some of them even with nuances of xenophobia and hatred. They may even be programmatically distinguished, but they have solutions that are exactly the same. It is enough to see how they often vote aligned, in parallel, in the European Parliament to clearly understand this phenomenon. In France, it can be called the National Front ; in Spain, it can be called the UKIP ; in Italy, it can be called the 5 Stars Movement ; in the Federal Republic of Germany, it can be called the Alternative for Germany ; in Portugal, it is called the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] All of them, even with different matrices, converge in this populist logic and that is also what we, as Europeans, often have to have the courage to be able to criticize, at a time when we know that it is through shared solutions that we can move forward solutions to problems. in this Council we have the subject of migration, a very, very difficult subject, a subject on which Europe still has a lot to work on, but it can already present something. The fact is that, since we last discussed this matter, we can already begin to make an assessment of the EU-Turkey Declaration, which the Prime Minister has also spoken here today. The truth is, with this Declaration, it was possible to reduce more than 100 times the crossings of migrants who were crossing the Aegean Sea to reach Greece and Italy. We have 10,000 crossings a day; today we have 100. Of course, we will still have to work hard to continue to answer this problem, but without Turkey it became even more difficult to solve the problem. This does not mean that we accept that the agreement with Turkey is an end in itself, because we do not accept it. It should also be borne in mind that on the agenda of this Council there are very important issues such as security. in this sense, I would like to ask a few very concrete questions, Prime Minister. We know that the exchange of information between States is very important — in fact, at the March European Council this issue was on the table, but at the national level we saw nothing going on and I would like to know why. Mr. Prime Minister, I would also like to ask you questions on another subject: that of metadata and access to them through information services. We know that this Parliament approved, with the vote of the Socialist Party, a law which has been declared unconstitutional. Since then, we have heard many statements by government officials saying they wanted to move forward, but at the moment we have nothing in particular, and that is certainly very important for the agenda we have on the table. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, with a very focused question: in relation to the meeting with the Eurogroup, what does the Eurogroup mean when it talks about additional measures for Portugal to achieve the structural effort? We know this year what these additional measures meant: captivating, for example, in Community funds. A short time ago, the President of the CDS questioned him about the European Aid Fund for the Most Deprived Persons ( EAFRD ). For the first time, in 2016, we will not have the distribution of food goods to some 400 000 Portuguese people who needed those goods of first need, most likely because this government chose to raise funds in such matters as this. What does the Eurogroup mean when it talks about additional measures? What was the commitment of the Minister for Finance in the Eurogroup to these additional measures? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u198	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u199	Mr President, Prime Minister : The Council's agenda once again runs away from major economic and social issues, expresses instability and translates the waiting compass determined by the elections in France, Germany and the Netherlands, which says a lot about who is in charge of the European Union and what interests it defends. But reality, that, not stop. The referendum in Italy demonstrates the volatility of the situation and the degree of popular opposition against the policies and so-called « reforms » of the European Union. This picture can evolve rapidly. Our country must be prepared, of course, for changes in the euro area. Portugal must prepare itself for a release of the euro, whether on its own will, in particular to protect itself, either because of other developments, and one of them is debt. If the level of our debt is already unsustainable, it may be even more so in a short time. The issue of debt renegotiation within its deadlines, amounts and interest is increasingly urgent. As the situation in Greece has already shown, the renegotiation we need goes beyond the limits imposed by economic and monetary union. It is a political issue, of national sovereignty, of right to development and not technical or exclusively economic. Another issue is that the 27 Member States will meet outside the Council to discuss the departure of Great Britain from the European Union. The Government must fight for a process of free negotiation of pressure, blackmail and threat of sanctions in respect of the sovereign decision of that people. In the context of bilateral relations between Portugal and the United Kingdom, the priority of the Government must be to safeguard the interests of Portugal and the Portuguese citizens who live and work there. Speaking of the national interest, the Juncker plan, and now its extension, may even mean investment, but the question is this: what investment? Who benefits? It is that in its implementation, crossed by the indispensity of the structural funds, it is a reproductive element of asymmetries, being used to finance who else can: the great powers, the great monopolies and the financial sector. The question continues: from which funds will the money be withdrawn for the extension? And do the rules stand? Finally, he insists on the militaristic drift. The recent reports adopted in the European Parliament are disturbing both the militarisation and the increase in military budgets and the dangerous constraints on freedom of expression. Mr. Prime Minister, more militarism, less democracy and deepening of the European Union's xenophobic policy in the face of the humanitarian crisis, particularly with the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, now replicated for Africa, is the culture broth that feeds the progress of the extreme right. That is why it is a hypocrisy to defend these policies and then to act with this danger. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u200	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u201	Mr President, Prime Minister : In his initial speech he used a phrase that, I think, very well characterizes what is going on in Europe : « We have a duty to resist ». It is at this stage of resistance that Europe may already find itself, but perhaps Mr Prime Minister, it is important that this way of resisting — that is what he calls it — be done differently, that is to say, by looking at the interests of the people. What is already starting to become truly unanimous — this is so obvious — is the fact that European policies do not meet the interests and needs of the people. And there have been so many, but so many, signs — the referendums in France, Ireland, the answers that have been given in the United Kingdom, in Italy... Mr. Prime Minister, the signs of the discontent of the peoples are immense. For example, what was done with regard to CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) and TTIP (Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership) — which was to suspend proceedings because, as there were elections, it was necessary to safeguard electoral results and because they knew that the people were against these agreements — is a very deep hypocrisy and effectively demonstrates that there are interests that are almost already antagonistic, which are the interests of the elites and the interests of the peoples. And when these interests do not correspond at least, I think there is a degradation that is natural, evident and even inevitable. Now this process is not now, it did not appear suddenly, and that is why the Greens believe that this European Union model must be reconsidered. If the European Council, other bodies and elites in the European Union do not think or rethink a new model, honestly, I do not know where this will stop because, while we are discussing defence budgets, we should be discussing budgets for the people, namely, just one of the points that the European Council is going to debate, which is the issue of youth. If we do not realize that if we do not make small economies robust, and if we are, alone and exclusively, looking at the interests of large economies, such as Germany, France and others, and neglecting the interests of small economies, such as Portugal, it is the future we are putting at stake, it is the youth we are putting at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u202	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u203	I will finish, Mr. President. So in Portugal we have a duty to say that renegotiating our debt is an obligation. Youth cannot pay EUR 8 billion annually. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u204	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u205	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members : We are now going through a period particularly marked by uncertainty and political and economic instability on a global level. But it is at this particular moment that we must remain aware of these same risks and seek to affirm and defend what is not subject to uncertainty and instability: our values and the defence of our interests in the way of prosperity, growth and economic and social development that we want for Portugal and Europe. In Europe, crises occur and aggravate the negative perception of the European project, whose immediate reflection is the growth of populist forces and the rhetoric of economic and social closure. Today's great challenge is the challenge of the European project itself. We must be aware of the seriousness of the current situation, but we would not play our role well if we were to remain in the apocalyptic narrative without proposing alternatives. It is therefore essential that common budgetary objectives extend to the social pillar of economic and monetary union and respect for the rule of law throughout the European Union. That is why, Prime Minister, it is important here to remember that the existence of alternatives and a black future is a myth, as indeed demonstrates the action and results already achieved by the Government with our European partners and European institutions. We have succeeded in blocking the allocation of sanctions to Portugal and suspending European funds and we have seen our 2017 budget being accepted by the European Commission. We believe that the government's priority to have constructive participation and to create conditions for better cooperation between the Member States will contribute to the urgent strengthening of the principles of solidarity, cohesion, convergence and social justice, which are precisely the pillars of the European political project. We know that it is possible to compromise between the implementation of these principles and the fulfilment of the obligations and rules to which we are all bound. We also know that these rules can and should be adjusted intelligently. We therefore trust that the Government, together with other European partners, will present concrete proposals to review the Stability and Growth Pact and the European Semester. We know that it is possible to refocus our political will on the pursuit of the sustainability of public accounts, along with social sustainability. We firmly believe that it is possible to improve the lives of all, without exclusion, and that the decisions we take carry with us the weight of that possibility and responsibility. We entrust the Government with the task of achieving this possibility with responsibility. Mr. Prime Minister, I believe that it is time for us to re-appropriate the European project and Portugal to lead this re-appropriation in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u206	As the PS Parliamentary Group still has the floor for an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u207	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: One aspect that is central to the Socialist Party is that Portugal's participation in the European project is made on behalf of the quality of life of Portuguese, the quality of work, the quality of initiative, the quality of life of those who in Portugal are our fellow citizens and who trust us that Portugal can be a more prosperous country. Participation in the European project, participation in this project, has ensured, over the last decades, better living conditions. And who remembers the country before its entry into the European Union, before the European communities, knows well that today, despite all the inconveniences, Portugal is a better country. Portugal's participation in the European project has made Portugal a better country and it is this plan that the Socialist Party wants and will continue to seek to achieve: a better country within the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debt issue cannot be dissociated from what we have done to reduce the budget deficit and at the same time show that it is possible to make a different policy by complying with the rules of the European Union and the euro area. Let's see: how can we have a sustainable debt? By gradually reducing the deficit, with more economic growth and with less deficit and more economic growth, allowing a substantial reduction in what Portugal pays for its interest. If we do the right policy, without plans b—and I think that the Social Democratic Party, today, is already going on plan b’, even after Commissioner Moscovici has come to Portugal saying that the country was on its way, that it met and that it was a country in which the Commission trusted to implement its budget... It is unfortunate that even after Commissioner Moscovici’s coming the Democratic Social Party has changed its argument. Returning to the central theme, debt is an issue that is also resolved with the sustainability of the financial system. And what has this government done? Less deficit in 2016, less deficit projected for 2017, has been solving much of the problems of the financial system. We have given every indication to the markets that Portuguese debt must be paid at a lower interest rate. If we pursue this path, if it is pointed out, even by the famous rating agencies, we can have a more sustainable debt and Portugal can discuss, within the European Union, what is in fact a problem of all:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u208	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u209	... the debt of all the Member States of the European Union, which is not just a Portuguese problem. But let us discuss it, following the rules and assuming from the outset that participation in the European project is central to the quality of life of Portuguese and to have a more prosperous country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u210	To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u211	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by answering three concrete questions that have been raised. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I assure you that the position we have taken in connection with the negotiations with the United Kingdom entirely coincides with your position, in respect of the sovereign decision of the British people. I would also like to reaffirm that we have the oldest alliance in the world with the United Kingdom and that all this negotiation must take place in a friendly way, naturally protecting the interests of Portugal in the United Kingdom, in particular the Portuguese communities that reside in the United Kingdom, by creating in no way any obstacle to the British residing in Portugal, to the free access of the British to Portugal and to the development of friendship relations between our two countries, and also wishing the United Kingdom to continue to be, even though outside the European Union, one of the main partners of the European Union throughout the world. Secondly, on two questions raised by the CDS-PP on the exchange of information, I should like to say that we will shortly approve the diploma which we finally have the single point of communication, which is absolutely essential for speeding up and which has been blocked for many years. We will unlock it, it will be approved and we will resolve the situation, as decided at the last High Council on Internal Security. For metadata, as you know, the case law of the Constitutional Court was established. I know that the composition of the Constitutional Court has changed in the meantime and, in my view, it is a subject on which we must look, but it is only worth looking at if we have effective conditions to overcome the obstacle that was previously encountered. Mr Miguel Morgado raised a question about the reductions in funding to programmes relating to young people, but I wanted to confront these data with those of the National Institute of Statistics, which are those that reveal that this year did not only lower the unemployment rate in general. It has increased the active population and, above all, reduced the rate of the discouraged and 25 % the rate of the unemployed, which means that what is being created is more quality employment and not the subsidised occupations that existed before. Mr President, I began by being even excited about your intervention, because of your originality, since you did not use the expression « General Deposit Box »! In fact, I thought the PSD would not be able to speak without saying « General Deposit Box »,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but quickly I found that, after all, it was not much imagination, because it replaced the expression « General Deposit Box » with the expression « plan b ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u212	Don't hit one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u213	Then I realized that the PSD lives in two seasons: in winter, it is plan b; in summer it is the devil. Don't! The devil is not yet, Mr. Steps Rabbit, it is only in July! Now, it's plan b! In the Eurogroup, there was no plan b, as in 2016, and there is no plan b in 2017. There is, yes, a single plan to, which is the budget that this House has approved, and there is another thing that I understand that you have difficulty in understanding, that it is to rule well to implement the budget that you have, without need of amending budgets and without need of violating the rules of the deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u214	Don't you want to talk about captivity? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u215	Mr President, I hope you have listened to the entire interview and therefore have also heard the answer in which I said that Portuguese debt is sustainable. This is something I have never posed, and I do not think it is acceptable, even if it is put. The answer I gave — and I think it is a good sense answer — was that Europe, the euro area as a whole, has a debt problem and that debt problem has to be taken on and dealt with throughout the euro area. I have never isolated the Portuguese case, nor will I ever accept to isolate the Portuguese case. Now, there is a problem in the euro area and this problem results from two very bad effects that the euro has developed over these years: first, it has not reduced asymmetries, it has accentuated asymmetries; second, it has not encouraged savings, it has encouraged debt. And this global debt that exists today in Europe is not a problem of Portugal, Greece, Italy, this or that country, is a problem of the euro area as a whole and will have to be assumed and addressed in this way. I also said — and it seems to me that, with the timetable we have this year, I do not think that, reasonably, we can admit that it will be discussed. Does this mean we should wait to sit down? No, we can't wait to sit down. We have to act. And we have to act like this? We must act, firstly, with good sense, which may be lacking others, beginning with ensuring good budgetary execution and the stabilization of the financial system, because, in doing so, this decreases the weight of what we pay annually for our debt service, making good debt management. In addition, two weeks ago we anticipated the payment of EUR 2000 million to the IMF, reducing the debt burden by EUR 40 million in each of the coming years. But we have to do more than this, because obviously it's not enough. We must continue to reverse policies, which we have been doing over the course of this year because, indeed, only by returning income to families, creating better conditions for investment and combating unemployment is that we will ensure better sustainability of our public finances, better conditions for growth and better sustainability in order to reduce our indebtedness. Do we not have to do anything at European level? We have! We must do something at European level, but we must not confuse what is the cause and what is the consequence. Debt is not the cause, debt is the consequence of a dysfunction that exists in the euro. The priority we have stressed, therefore, is the need to solve the problems of economic convergence. this year we have completed 30 years of participation in the European Union. We have 15 years of convergence and 15 years of prolonged stagnation and divergence, almost every year, with the European Union. That is why we have focused the debate on this area, because if we do not solve the problem of convergence, we will not solve the problem of debt. Even if there was a solution to debt, without solving the problem of convergence, it would always be a non-final and transitional solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u216	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u217	Therefore, let us not confuse cause and consequence and focus matters relating to convergence. So, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, for us, there is a very clear issue, and I am afraid that we can't accept the European Union's flight forward, trying to convince the citizens that it is solving its problems by leaving behind the problems that are to be solved. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u218	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u219	Mr President, I am trying to conclude, but in view of the complexity of the matter and all the issues, I have some difficulty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u220	I understand that matter is complex, but time has also been long.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u221	Mr President, I can assure you that I will make an even greater effort to conclude, but I do not want to disrespect Mr Jerónimo de Sousa. For us, it is very clear that further progress in new areas without completing economic and monetary union is not acceptable for us. And complementing economic and monetary union means completing banking union and the deposit guarantee system, realizing the social pillar of economic and monetary union, and, above all, providing the euro area with budgetary capacity which is an effective instrument to be a new impetus for the convergence of the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u222	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u223	In conclusion, Mr President, by quoting Mrs Lara Martinho, I will say that in times of great uncertainty there is only one way to navigate: it is to have firmness in the direction we want to reach and not uncertainty as to the values we have to defend. And these values are those of humanism, solidarity and fraternity, because they are the body and the basis of the spirit of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u224	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs. Members, who have arrived at the end of the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, I would like to thank the presence of the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government. Mrs. Members of the next item on our agenda are scheduled, without time for discussion, for motions for resolutions Nos 21 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Biomedical Research, opened for signature in Strasbourg, 25 January 2005, 22 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on the Transplantation of Organs and Fabrics of Human Origin, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 24 January 2002, and 23 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Moldova on International Road Transport of Passengers and Goods signed in Lisbon on 28 May 2014. We will therefore start the voting period. I would ask the Services to prepare the electronic record for quorum purposes. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 188 presences, which are added to those of the Members. Members Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, Luís Pedro Pimentel and Pedro Alves, PSD, Francisco Rocha, Joaquim Barreto and Luís Moreira Testa, PS, Patrícia Fonseca, CDS-PP, and Miguel Tiago and Paulo Sá, PCP, who were unable to register, therefore present 197 Members. We must therefore proceed to the vote. Mr. Jorge Lacão, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u225	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u226	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u227	Exactly. Mr President, I have had the opportunity to obtain information from the Bureau that, in the script of the votes that will begin immediately, the overall final vote of Bill No 30 / XIII is not included ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System adopted by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August 2013. Mr. President and Mr. Members, it happens that this bill was voted in full today, in the speciality, at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. from a procedural point of view, I would be able to be the subject of a comprehensive final vote here and now. It also happens that this bill, as we all know, implies, subsequent to its entry into force, the adoption of a decree which regulates it. Both one diploma and the other provide for the entry into force of the new court system from 1 January next year, which is why, regardless of the merit assessment on the proposal, I believe that the speed of this process is evident to everyone, especially since the committees could not normally carry out their work due to the budget cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u228	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u229	I shall conclude, Mr President. Being like this, and because in 1. the Commission all the parliamentary groups, without exception, agreed to mark by next Tuesday the final drafting of the diploma, on the assumption that their vote at this time in the plenary, I would ask Mr President that, in view of the reasons I have just expressed for the good progress of the work, due diligence with the parliamentary groups which have opposed their inclusion in the script in that regard may still be the subject of the vote today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u230	Mr President, we already know what the situation is. In fact, we have already understood before, and we have done business with all the parliamentary groups. The script, as you know, must be stabilized on the eve unless there is consensus in the plenary regarding other votes. There was no consensus. The PSD Parliamentary Group, at least - and I do not know whether the CDS too - has given no consensus for this vote to take place today and therefore, no matter what happened in the Commission, we cannot carry it out. We must respect the rules. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u231	Mr President, it is also for an appeal to the Bureau if you permit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u232	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u233	Mr President, I would like to express surprise at the fact that, in fact, in the Commission, a meeting for the final drafting has been scheduled. In fact, the PSD even admitted that it could be at 9 a.m., since there were many meetings. Of course, we do not question the right, which is a regulation, of the PSD if we oppose a vote, but we cannot fail to wonder, until another diploma which has been voted in the Commission today, on parental responsibilities, is in the script, and therefore the only thing we can do is to express our surprise and say that, obviously, this impermissibility cannot cease to have a strictly political reading. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u234	Mr President, I would just like to correct you because you are informing me that neither diplomas are in this final script, and therefore no consensus has been given for any amendment to the script which was distributed yesterday. In fact, there is an explanation for the fact that there is a need for a certain time between the distribution of scripts and votes, so that parliamentary groups can discuss voting options. I don't think it's worth it to be reopening this debate. It was good that there was consensus, but we must not see that it did not exist. Mr. José Manuel Pureza asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u235	Mr President, it is also to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u236	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u237	Mr President, if I may, I would quickly say what seems to me to be important right now. Mr. President is quite right. There is indeed a need for time for a weighting of the votes of all parliamentary groups. However, I cannot, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, allow me to express my total perplexity in the face of the circumstance which is created here because, in fact, the way in which the work took place during the morning, in the vote on the specialty, was a perfectly sound way and in which the explanations of vote on the matter were absolutely acquired. So, Mr President, thinking that you are quite right about what you just said, it is another reason that leads to this incident and I wish to regret that it is so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u238	Mr President of the 1st Chamber has the floor. the Commission, Mr Bacellar de Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u239	Mr President, I would like to express my extreme surprise at the non-registration in the script for the overall final vote on the diplomas that have been approved today in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I wanted to stress that to 1. the Commission and the services which support it, fully aware of the rules of operation of this House, have taken all preventive measures to ensure that, despite the short deadlines, it can ensure that the overall final vote is scheduled for today. So it is with total surprise and some surprise that, being acquired and still lived this morning, in the work that we were able to conclude a little late, we suddenly find this situation, and what the parliamentary groups agreed on in the context of 1. the Commission does not agree with what is then communicated to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u240	Of course, all of you. Members who have spoken acknowledge that the Bureau cannot go beyond the need for consensus to include these points in the vote. Therefore, the most important thing you can do is ask the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups, their directors, whether or not they agree that these diplomas which have been approved in the Commission today are being voted on. [[Pause.]] With no consensus, it is not worth wasting time with more interventions, which are of a political nature. We cannot escape the rules of procedure and it is also clear that the meeting that was held this morning could have been done any other day. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves insists on speaking. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to emphasise something which seems clear to me and which is important, in the perspective of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group at the moment. There is no question of compliance with the rules, which we will obviously respect; what actually causes us perplexity and strangeness is the existence of a procedure that was articulated with good faith among all the benches in 1. the Commission, which mobilised the support services to the Commission for this purpose, and which in 25. the time, when the Commission services and the banks have prepared this possibility, it does not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u242	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u243	I only remember that in the XII Legislation, in the previous Legislation, when VV. Ex.as ensured the majority, also in response to requests motivated by the need to ensure an entry into force, if it ensured the vote even without the interlocution of two plenary meetings. So it seems to us...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. You are already more than clear up the question
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u245	Just to finish, Mr. President. It seems to us that it is of those cases, paraphrasing...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u246	The question is clarified, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u247	Mr President, if I may, by paraphrasing Sá de Miranda, say that there are situations that I am sometimes surprised by others. in this case, we are afraid and should be ashamed of the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u248	The parliamentary groups take responsibility for what they do. It is not the Bureau that has to take responsibility. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 165 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the recognition of the art of falcoaria in Portugal as an immaterial cultural heritage of humanity by UNESCO ( CDS-PP, PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ). You have the floor to read the vote, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The art of falcoaria in Portugal became part of the representative list of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of UNESCO Humanity, last December 1, during 11. the meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage, which took place in Ethiopia. The Portuguese falcoaria joins the 13 countries where the practice is already recognized as the Immaterial Heritage of Humanity, after the candidacy submitted in 2015 by the Municipal Chamber of Salvaterra de Magos, in partnership with the Regional Tourist Entity of Alentejo and Ribatejo, the University of Évora and the Portuguese Falcoaria Association. This is the global recognition of the value of this living and identity expression of Portuguese culture, considered the most noble of the kinetic arts, associated with a set of other countries from various points of the globe, who share the same passion for this art, for bird and for nature and which is one of the oldest relations between man and bird. With a tradition with more than 4000 years of history, it was in fact the practice of falcory which led in the 18th century to which D. José I ordered to build the Royal Falconry, in Salvaterra de Magos, which became the meeting place of falcoeros from various points of Europe. The art of falcoaria reached several dimensions and expressions in Portugal, from which it also stands out its practice « mounted», in full conjunction with equestrian art. Alter do Chão, by his connection to the Lusitanian horse has assumed the defense of this part, which is now recognized as a distinguishing factor. This is therefore a historic moment for falcoaria in Portugal and also an important opportunity for the promotion and development responsible for the practice in our country, as well as for economic and social valorization, for the dynamization and differentiation of tourism, with particular emphasis on the municipality of Salvaterra de Magos which, in addition to the products and the natural beauty of the region, can also provide its visitors with contact with this fascinating art. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the recognition of the art of falcoaria in Portugal as the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 166 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on UNESCO's recognition of the process of manufacture of black baroir of Bisalhães ( Vila Real ( PS, PSD, CDS-PP, BE, Os Verdes and PCP ). You have the floor to read the vote, Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, affirms itself in the valorization and protection of the important cultural heritages around the world through a classification in two lists of special relevance — the Representative List of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity and the List of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity with Urgent Need of Rescue. With these classifications, UNESCO aims to increase recognition and defence of immaterial heritage, encourage States to determine measures to prevent their disappearance and encourage workers and holders of knowledge to be irreplaceable elements in future preservation. It was exactly on the List that aims the urgent protection that the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguard of Cultural Heritage in its 11th. the meeting, which took place in Adis Ababa, Ethiopia, consecrated the process of manufacturing the black clay of Bisalhães, in Vila Real, in the category of ‘traditional knowledge’. The process of manufacture of the black clay of Bisalhães had already been consecrated on 5 March 2015 as a national cultural heritage. This recognition, resulting from a joint action of various entities and led by the city of Vila Real, ensured another look at the relevance of the ‘process’ in its anthropological and ethnographic readings. The application for certification by UNESCO was worth numerous scientific contributions and its originality and evidentiary elements also gained the enthusiastic support of many of the technical teams to whom the evaluation of the processes is carried out. The consecration now taking place will allow a reaffirmation of the figurative value of the black clay of Bisalhães, assuming itself as a new undertaking from which national entities in the area of culture and education and local entities cannot lie. The action plan on training is important, ensuring that the still-living oil tankers can, without delay, transfer their knowledge; it gains awareness of the local economy, allowing another reading that rural development support may grant; they gain centrality the elements that aim to guarantee the fair return to those who choose to dedicate themselves to this art as a future and as a challenge. All are few for this new stage. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, warmly welcomes the consecration of the process of manufacture of Black Baroness of Bisalhães in the List of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity with Urgent Needs of Salvation, welcomes UNESCO for the decision that its Intergovernmental Committee has taken, presents the most lively congratulations to all who have mobilized themselves so that this whole process is filled with success and in particular the city of Vila Real and leaves a warm greeting to those who, with knowledge of decades, still fear to keep this secular tradition alive».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u252	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] We turn to vote No 167 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities ( PCP, PS, PSD, The Greens, CDS-PP and BE ). I ask the Secretary, Mr Carlos Monteiro, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 3 December the International Day of Persons with Disabilities was pointed out, a day when being a space of reflection on the reality experienced by people with disabilities and the difficulties felt must also be a statement of commitment to the realization of their fundamental rights and of deserved greeting to people with disabilities, their strength and determination to overcome obstacles, as well as to their families and representative organizations, by actions and initiatives that carry out in the defence of fundamental rights. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic shall lay down in Article 71 thereof. the, equal rights of persons with disabilities, as well as the responsibility of the State to carry out a ‘ national policy of prevention and treatment, rehabilitation and integration’, of support to the families of these citizens, in addition to the development of ‘ a pedagogy that sensitizes society about the duties of respect and solidarity with them and to assume the responsibility for the effective realization of their rights. ’ It also determines the responsibility of the State to support organizations of people with disabilities, as well as support for special education. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Portuguese State, reaffirming universal principles, binds the States parties to the promotion, protection and guarantee of the ‘full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with disabilities’, as well as to the promotion of ‘respect for their dignity’. These, among other legal instruments, have enshrined universal principles and fundamental human rights in law. In Portugal, there have been legislative advances and progress has been made towards the inclusion and integration of people with disabilities. There is, however, much way to go to ensure a dignified and independent life for people with disabilities — a journey that cannot be postponed and that needs to be reaffirmed this day. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, sign the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, greeting the disabled, their families and representative organizations, expressing the need to pursue a path of inclusion and integration, ensuring the participation of people with disabilities in economic, social, cultural, sporting life».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u254	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 341 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendments to the Statute of the Public Manager and to the legal systems of the business sector of the State and the local business sector ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote and the vote against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens was rejected, and the CDS-PP abstained.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 342 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Imposing transparency duties to the administrators of the General Deposit Box and amending the Statute of the Public Manager ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 351 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Public Manager, repealing the exemption scheme established by Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, and clarifying the scope of their reporting obligations ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall vote, in general, on Bill No. 352 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Public Manager, repealing the exemption scheme established by Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, and establishing remuneration limits ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 345 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Promotes the urgent regulation of parental responsibilities and the allocation of food in situations of domestic violence and the application of coercion or ancillary penalty measures involving distance between parents ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, the bill we just voted down to 5. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 327 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the General Rules of the Civil Protection Procedure ( approved by Law No 141 / 2015 of 8 September 2015 ) and the second amendment to Law No 75 / 98 of 19 November ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u255	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u256	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u257	Mr President, with regard to draft law No 345 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) which we voted earlier, I think there was a delay, because it also falls to 1. the Commission and not to 5. the Commission, as Mr President announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u258	I confirm, Mrs. Deputy, that the bill goes down to 1. the Commission and not to 5. the Commission. Let us now vote, as a general rule, Bill No 350 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, extending the period of protection up to 25 years ( Third amendment to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, approved by Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September, amended by Laws No 142 / 2015 of 8 September, and 31 / 2003 of 22 August ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, the bill also goes down to 1. the Commission. Let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 353 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Affirms the need for urgent regulation of parental responsibilities in situations of domestic violence ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 558 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the performance of judicial support in the context of domestic violence crimes and regulation of parental responsibilities and verify the need for the establishment of a multidisciplinary team to support the judicial system ( NAP ). With regard to this initiative, the Left Block called for a split vote on the first point.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u259	Mr. President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to interrupt?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u260	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u261	Mr President, I would like to request a separate vote on the three points of draft resolution No 558 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u262	in this case, let us vote them all separately. We begin by voting on the first point of draft resolution No 558 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens.]] We shall vote on the second point of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We are now voting on the third point of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and with abstentions from PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens.]] We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 21 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Biomedical Research opened for signature in Strasbourg on 25 January 2005. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the NAP recorded.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 22 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on the Transplantation of Human Organs and Fabrics, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 24 January 2002. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the NAP recorded.]] We shall also proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 23 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Moldovan Republic on International Road Transport of Passengers and Goods signed in Lisbon on 28 May 2014. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the NAP recorded.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 247 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 25 / 2012 of 16 July, extending the size of the living will to the planning of old age, in addition to the disease situation ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 345 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the prices of health care and social support in the care units and outpatient units of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care ( NRCCI ) ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 346 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government react to the Health Line 24 Senior until the beginning of autumn ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 347 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will in the main media and in all public services with places of service including authorities ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We voted for draft resolution No 348 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal ( CDS-PP ). I have just been informed that the PS calls for a point vote. I draw attention to the fact that such requests should be made in advance so that the vote can be properly prepared by the parliamentary groups. Let us then vote separately, points 1 and 2 and then points 3 and 4 of draft resolution No 348 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). We now vote points 1 and 2 of draft resolution No 348/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens were adopted.]] We then voted points 3 and 4 of draft resolution No 348/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE and CDS-PP and PS, the PCP and the Greens were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 349 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the training of health professionals in the area of geriatrics at pre and post-graduate level, particularly at the level of medical specialization ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We also vote in general on Bill No 116 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents the mercantilization of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban solid waste management ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected by votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] You have the floor to take into account an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request in Office No 168 / SE / 2016, concerning disciplinary proceedings No 4 / NAJC/ 2016 of the Department of Human Resources of the Institute of Social Security and Legal Support, the Subcommittee on Ethics of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Mota Soares ( CDS-PP ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the relevant cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-07.u264	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday, 14 December, at 3 p.m., and will have on the agenda, in addition to political declarations, the examination of petitions Nos 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Presented by Carla Sofia Castanheira do Paço and others, requesting the amendment of the legal regime of special education, and 57 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Presented by the Artémis Project Association ( A-PA ), requesting that October 15th be recognized as National Day for the Sensitization of Gestational Loss. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus done with our work. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 26 minutes.]]
