ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. As you know, we have as the first point in our agenda the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 501/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a recruitment group for Portuguese gestual teachers ( BE ), 504 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese gestual language be included in the range of existing curriculum enrichment activities ( BE ), 505 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of teaching Portuguese gestual language to students and students in reference schools for the bilingual education of deaf students ( BE), 561 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by valuing the Portuguese gestual language ( PCP ), 564 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for a higher quality school for deaf students ( CDS-PP ), 567 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Development and promotion of the Portuguese Gestive Language ( PS ) and 569 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Guarantee of an inclusive school through the promotion of the gestural language ( The Greens ). To present the draft resolutions of the Left Block, Mr. Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Imagine that they live in a country where they can't communicate with those who are on the streets, who can't go to the emergency hospital and explain the symptoms that afflict you, which, in finance, in social security, in the bank, everywhere, there is no one who speaks your language. Imagine that they want to talk to your parents and they can't communicate with you either. Imagine, however, that they were able to enter a higher course in which the only way to follow the classes would be through the remarks of colleagues, because the teacher also speaks a language that is impossible to learn from you. Imagine what your life would be like if you lived in a country like that. It would be very different from what you have now and almost certainly would not be Members or Members. This is the life of deaf people in Portugal. Yeah, they're deaf and not deaf-young. They are people who have as their mother tongue the Portuguese gestual language—yes, language and non-language—and as their second language the Portuguese, both recognized as official languages for almost 20 years in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The Constitution also recognises the Portuguese gestual language «as a cultural expression and instrument of access to education and equal opportunities». Almost 20 years have passed and equal opportunities are still a mirage for deaf people. And it will continue to be a mirage for all of us as long as it is a reason for surprise and admiration for the presence of someone to perform gesture-language interpretation at a public event, as we are frightened when the screens that are installed in this room are used, which only work on request when we discuss initiatives that directly concern the deaf community. I hope that today is the first step to ensure that these screens are always active, recognizing and dignitying access to information from the deaf community. [[Congratulations from BE.]] As long as communication in Portuguese is not generalized, we will be keeping people in a language ghetto. It was because we felt that it was necessary and indispensable to extend the universe of users of the gesture language, whether deaf, deaf or blind or hearing, that we took the initiative of presenting these proposals. Fortunately, other parties have accompanied us and we are sure that we will reach the final approval of what I am now defending. We want deaf reference schools to end the separation between deaf and hearing students, that it is possible to live together, date, help in studies between those who hear and those who do not hear, in a common language that can only be the Portuguese gestual language. These schools have to provide practical language classes for all students who want to attend them, schools that can become nuclei diffusers of Portuguese gestal language and open themselves to the surrounding community, contributing to the construction of a more inclusive territory in which a deaf person can discuss with Mr. Abilio the quality of the steak that he bought on the eve. It will be the increase of users that will allow the social inclusion of the deaf community. The Portuguese gestual language cannot serve only for a community to communicate within, with itself. How many more are those who can communicate with the deaf most inclusive people will be this society in which we live. For this reason, we propose that it be added to the programmatic contents of the curriculum enrichment activities a new content: the portuguese gestual language. This offer, at an early age, will enable greater proximity and naturality in the learning of the gestural language. Finally, it is necessary to correct a situation that not only harms professionals who teach gestual language, but also harms their students. These teachers have as much dignity as others do, they teach a language as worthy as others. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is not understood why they are hired as technicians and not as teachers. In addition to the losses caused to students, given the recurrent delay in these contracts, it is also necessary to consider the instability of the career of these professionals and the precariousness of those who never know what will happen to them next year. It is essential and urgent to establish a recruitment group for Portuguese gestual language teachers. We are sure of the approval of these proposals, not only because they correspond to the demands of the deaf community, but also because they constitute an essential step in so far as there is still to conquer so that we have a truly inclusive society. Finally, I greet the deaf people who are present here, those who accompany us at a distance and all those who have collaborated in the construction of these proposals. Nothing about us without us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u3	To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, the representative associations of people with disabilities, especially the deaf community, for all the work and intervention they have done on the subject we are discussing today. Determining Article 74. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which is the responsibility of the State, in carrying out the teaching policy, among other responsibilities, « to protect and value the Portuguese gestual language as a cultural expression and instrument of access to education and equal opportunities ». This fair consecration of Portuguese gestual language as an instrument for access to education and equal opportunities must be translated into the existence of the necessary human and material means in schools that guarantee the proper support for deaf children and young people. The Portuguese gestual language or, better said, the various gestual languages—since each deaf community, in the various countries and even in the various regions of our country, has a specific gestual language that is born within this community—as an expression and communication vehicle, is another instrument for the integration of deaf people. In order for its constitutional right to be fulfilled, it is important to plan and take measures, taking into account the same specificities as they are now referred to, measures that, for example, allow children and young people to overcome the difficulties experienced in access to education. There is still a shortage of teachers and interpreters of Portuguese gestal language in the public education network with more significant impacts up to public higher education. It is also important that Portuguese gestual language be taught in schools so that children and young listeners can communicate with their classmates, school and deaf friends. We understand that the creation of conditions so that all students can, at all levels of teaching, learn Portuguese gestual language assumes significant importance in overcoming this communication barrier and in combating exclusion and segregation, which still persists. At the same time, the appreciation of the professionals in this area should be made. Teachers and Portuguese gestal interpreters have a key role to play in the follow-up of children and young deaf people, especially in reference schools, as well as their intervention is extremely important for understanding the school community for the specific needs of these students, in particular in ensuring equal access to learning. It is also important to take significant steps in the accessibility of deaf people to a set of public services, whose absence of Portuguese gestal interpreters in these services which can provide proper support and follow-up to deaf people who travel to these places makes it more difficult or even impossible to access public services. The CFP previously presented a legislative initiative on this subject, which was approved in this House, allowing the definition of the conditions of access and exercise of the activity of the interpreter of gestal language. This was an important step forward, but there is still a way to go that matters not to be postponed. For this reason, and to respond to a set of problems that have already been identified, the CFP presents this legislative initiative, proposing that a recruitment group be created for Portuguese gestual teachers and that a survey be made of the number of Portuguese gestual language teachers and technicians that exist in schools, as well as a survey of the needs felt, so that these needs correspond to the respective recruitment of these professionals. We also understand that measures must be taken by listening to the representative associations of people with disabilities, especially the deaf community, as well as the representative organizations of professionals in the area, so that in schools in the public network, at all levels of teaching, the Portuguese gestual language is taught to all children and all young people who manifest will in their learning, and this must be a progressive process that begins in reference schools but that extends to all public education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u5	We defend that a plan should be drawn up that assesses needs and identifies the difficulties experienced by the deaf community in accessing public services, and steps should be taken to ensure that it is accessible. We propose that there be a Portuguese gestal interpreters grant due support to deaf people when they use public services, and that these and other measures, once again, should be involved and heard the representative associations of people with disabilities, especially the deaf community. Without prejudice to other solutions that are equally important to respond to the problems of deaf people and that the CFP has defended—as is the case with hearing aids, cochlear implants, as well as the promotion of early hearing screenings—the Portuguese gestual language is one of the tools to overcome the communication barriers that persist and which, not rarely, prevent deaf people from enjoying fundamental rights. These concrete proposals are important steps to ensure that fundamental rights are respected and effective inclusion is achieved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u6	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed today, here, a set of draft resolutions, proposing different approaches on the role of Portuguese gestual language as a tool for the inclusion of deaf students in the educational system. Although the approaches are different, it is important to highlight and welcome several points of convergence between the different draft resolutions of the different parties, namely: that the Portuguese gestual language, recognized in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in 1997, is very important for the capacity of expression and certainly a unifying element of the community of deaf people; that is the language through which the deaf community in Portugal communicates to each other, although not exclusively, but also with any of the surrounding community, including its family, educators, teachers, technicians, among others; that the current 17 reference schools of bilingual education of deaf students, as true cases of inclusive school, should guarantee the other members of the educational community the training responses that pass through the offer of the language also to the students who attend these schools; and that the Portuguese general language teachers should be hired through a specific group of students, not so far as specialized technicians. in the CDS, concretely, the understanding that we have been building, consulting various sources, is that the education of deaf students should continue the design of true integration, but, in fact, the reference schools for deaf students have not always been able to carry out this design and, more often than the reasonable and by a variety of factors, have not been competent instruments of inclusion. in our understanding, the inclusion of deaf students should, in addition to other factors, unequivocally contemplate the fluency in written Portuguese, read and interpreted. We must not forget that the goal is a real bilingualism and not the promotion of a teaching system in which deaf people are fluent in gesture language, but they cannot interpret or write a text in the language of the people who surround them and culture. respect for this objective, however, should cover the possibility that other non-sudden students of the same school may share the domain of portuguese gestal language, even for better mutual sociability. In parallel, management language teachers should be guaranteed the conditions for effectively integrating the teaching bodies of the schools as such, in order to be able to carry out a full work with all students and articulate with the other members of the classes councils. These two measures we propose seem to us to be consensual, so we see from the other draft resolutions, and relatively simple to develop, so we believe that they will greatly contribute to the improvement of the quality of the education service provided both to deaf students and to the communities in which they are inserted. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u8	To present the PS draft resolution, you have the floor of Mrs. Odete João.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The appreciation of Portuguese gestual language as a cultural expression and as an instrument of access to education and equal opportunities is constitutionally enshrined. It is up to the State to comply with this fundamental right, promoting public education policies that create the best conditions for facilitating the learning of the gestual language and promoting the linguistic identity of the deaf community. The gestual language is the privileged means of communication between deaf citizens and these with the surrounding community, so teaching the gestual language is essential for their integration into society. The importance of the gestual language is reflected in the recommendations presented by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, as well as in the draft resolutions submitted by the various parliamentary groups. This is therefore something that must deserve broad political consensus, regardless of whether there are differences in approach here or there. The school, especially the public school, has a duty to eliminate all forms of discrimination and to be a space of inclusion promoting equality of opportunity. The school must ensure the best conditions of integration of deaf students and promote the quality of learning and the success of school and for this and for this community the gestual language assumes the main role. Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008, on special education, following the best international practices, promoted the education of children and young people in bilingual environments, through learning and development of gestual language and the domain of written Portuguese, the gestal language being considered the mother tongue of these young people and the portuguese language in its second language. At the time, this special education diploma had broad support from the deaf community and allowed the organization of differentiated and flexible educational responses inserted into the network of reference schools for deaf people, now stabilized, but at the time it was the target of criticism by some parliamentary groups. Today, the work with these students and the resources made available contribute fully to the promotion of a democratic and inclusive school, oriented towards the educational success of all. The progress was significant; however, there is a need to continue to deepen and expand this work. Access to learning the gestual language of hearing students is one of these needs and priorities. Communication in the gesture language cannot be restricted to the deaf community or these with a small number of listeners, usually their family, trainers and interpreters; it is necessary to break barriers, it is necessary to promote the learning of the gestural language to more and more listeners. This is a recommendation submitted by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and is present in all the recommendations brought to debate by the various parliamentary groups that brought this matter to the debate. The existing human resources for teaching in Portuguese gestual language still do not include teachers with their own qualifications, as provided for in the diploma of special education; however, it is essential to ensure equal status for teachers of Portuguese gestual language. There is therefore a path to stability for all those who work in reference schools for deaf students and who give the best of themselves to promote the quality of learning and the integration of students. It's fair this public recognition. It is therefore important to know precisely the needs of teachers to affect a possible recruitment group and the necessary professional requirements, paying attention to existing legislation for the qualifications for teaching and available resources. Finally, the PS Parliamentary Group welcomes the agreement between the various parliamentary groups to bring the draft resolutions down to the Commission without a vote, allowing further deepening of this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u10	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens also present a draft resolution to ensure an inclusive school through the promotion of Portuguese gestual language. in fact, The Greens have fought in this Assembly of the Republic, in the most diverse respects, for combating discrimination and, in this sense, we believe that this draft resolution integrates in the objective, which we have repeatedly brought here, of promoting an inclusive school for all and where no one is excluded. With regard to the deaf community and the Portuguese gestual language, we have been fighting intensively here, in the Assembly of the Republic, for example, about the need for translation of television content, but there is still a long way to go about the deaf community, in particular in the health sector, both with regard to early diagnoses and with regard to necessary interventions. Today, we focus on education. Since the 1997 revision of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, very particular aspects have been identified in relation to the Portuguese gestual language, in particular the need for its protection and appreciation. What, then, is the best way of valuing their enlargement and the possibility of their extended learning to listeners and students who would like to make this option of learning the language of gesture? In fact, the best way to communicate with everyone, the ability to communicate with everyone is certainly an option that many students would like to make, and this is just one of the proposals that Greens make here. That is, the possibility of children and young listeners to learn Portuguese gestal language in public school, so that everyone can participate in the enrichment of communication capacity. On the other hand, The Greens also propose the creation of a recruitment group for Portuguese gestual language teachers. But there is another question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom we do not forget in this draft resolution: the presence in public school, since the beginning of the school year, of gestal-language interpreters in a number appropriate to the needs of accompanying children and young deaf people. Why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Because we have repeatedly received complaints from parents and education officials in the Assembly of the Republic at the beginning of the school years, which are very legitimately concerned that their children and educators have not yet had a gestual interpreter at school. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not acceptable for any child or young person to start a school year without communication capacity. It is not possible to accept this situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u13	The Greens therefore propose, as a first point, that there be this concrete effectiveness, to ensure that, on the first day of classes of any school year, any child or youth in this country, in any school, has the ability to communicate and understand. in the background, Madam President, this is the content of the draft resolution which, today, The Greens present here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u14	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Manuela Tender has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discussed a set of initiatives relating to the valorization and promotion of Portuguese gestual language ( LGP) and the creation of a recruitment group for teachers of LGP. in a mature democracy, the proposals of the various partisan forces should be analysed and voted on in accordance with the serious and responsible assessment of the pursuit of the public interest, the safeguarding of the common good and respect for the general principles enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and in the treaties, conventions and covenants approved and ratified by the Portuguese State and other legislation in force. Thus, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, reversing itself in the overallity of the recitals and the motions for resolutions presented, resisted the easy temptation to multiply initiatives of the same content...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u17	... and will follow the initiatives under discussion globally, not voting against any of them, regardless of the bench that proposes them, and hoping that this practice will be generalized, a sign of maturity and democratic responsibility. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic confers on the State the responsibility of protecting and valuing the Portuguese gestual language as a cultural expression and instrument of access to education and equal opportunities. This is, in fact, the point of the matter. In the light of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, “all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights”. But it is necessary to ensure equal access and educational success opportunities, according to the needs and potentialities of each individual, with specific responses for each case, to ensure the same opportunities for access to employment, personal, social, academic and professional achievement. The specific mode of bilingual education is a reality framed in Portugal within the framework of educational responses for deaf students, under Decree-Law No 3 / 2008, which defines the specialized support to be provided in education. For many citizens, over 30 000, the LGP is the first language, place of building identity and self-representation, vehicle for communication and integration into society and subjective expression. It is therefore a factor of participation and inclusion in school and society. Important socialization factor. This participation and inclusion will be all the more effective, full and effective the greater the proficiency of each citizen in the use of that language. of the deaf citizens, but also of the listeners, because the human being is an eminently social being that takes place only fully in interaction with the other. Therefore, we follow the recommendations of offering the option of teaching-learning the Portuguese gestual language as a curriculum enrichment activity n° 1. the cycle of basic education and the provision by reference schools for bilingual education of deaf students of Portuguese language classes to the general community, progressively extended to other schools, according, of course, to the availability of human resources. Measures aimed at improving the integration of deaf people into society, their realization and full exercise of citizenship and the realization of fundamental rights and freedoms, also extending the universe of their partners, reducing discrimination, exclusion and segregation, the behavioral barriers that hinder their social interaction, often we all know, reduced to the community and communication with family, educators, teachers, deaf colleagues and technicians, thereby severely restricting the range of social relations and consequently personal achievement and integration in the labour market. Valuing the Portuguese gestual language also requires the appreciation and dignity of the status of teachers of LGP. The absence of a recruitment code for these teachers leads them to be hired as specialized technicians under different terms of employment and employment of teachers, sometimes after the beginning of the school year, with inherent losses for all, especially for students. I should like to conclude by saying that it highlights, as we can see, all the initiatives under discussion the need to set up a recruitment code for LGP teachers, a proposal which the PSD Parliamentary Group accompanies. In view of this unanimity, the Government must take account of Parliament's contribution to the resolution of this iniquity, in the context of the ongoing work under review of Decree-Law No 3 / 2008 for the construction of a truly inclusive school and a more just, supportive and inclusive society. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u18	For a second intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Surprisingly, I have managed extremely effective time and, as it has been for some time, I would like to say that in current times we have had a quite lively environment in terms of education issues, it is with great pleasure that in the CDS Parliamentary Group we have come to follow this topic as a consensual topic. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Working Group on Special Educational Needs, we were able, as a Parliament, to build consensus around a subject that is sensitive and that there is much to be done. I would therefore not want to stop giving this note and, surely, within the Commission, we will be able to build a single text — perhaps at last! — on this subject, which leaves us at the end of the year a note of hope for 2017. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u20	The Bureau no longer records requests for registration, so we conclude the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 501/ XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE ), 504 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ), 505 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ), 561 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), 564 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 567 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PS ) and 569 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( The Greens ). We move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 523 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government enhance the use of all available mechanisms for water level control and acts to speed up the de-absorption of the Aveiro River ( CDS-PP ), 466 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dessorption of the Aveiro River ( BE ), 553 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the disabsorption of the Aveiro River and by the development of synergies with local structures, notably with the port of Aveiro ( PS ), 568 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent need to de-absorb the Aveiro River ( The Greens) and 562 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dissorption and regulation of flows from the Aveiro River ( PSD ). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Aveiro River is by nature one of the greatest environmental wealth in Portugal. We speak of 45 km of extension, of 11 km of width and of a hole that, having 11 ha, has more than half of this area permanently occupied by water. The biodiversity existing in the Aveiro River is, as I said, a vast wealth that hosts from migratory birds to numerous species of fauna and flora, as well as allows the creation of several different habitats, be salts, cannibals, salts and others that form in that region. But in addition to environmental wealth, the Aveiro River has another characteristic that distinguishes it significantly: all this environmental heritage is in full harmony with the human presence and with a series of activities essential to the population of the region. Very significant expression of this are the agricultural and fishing activities that develop on their own river or their shores, as well as a significant tourist activity. It happens that, for a long time, there has been no de-absorbing of the Aveiro River, and this has been a number of problems. From then on, soils have been affected by salinization, which reduces their productive capacity, particularly in terms of soil quality for the practice of agricultural activity, but also difficulty in the fishing activity by the tails are not regulated as they should. Thus, projects have been developed by several governments in order to carry out the disabsorption of the river. Except that didn't happen for more than 20 years. The CDS took the initiative to present this draft resolution because we understand that it makes sense for the Assembly of the Republic to speak out, urging the Government to carry out this mission that is of interest to all, for the Aveiro district but, of course, also because we speak of a wealth that is national, for the whole country. We welcome the fact that all parliamentary groups have also contributed to initiatives for this debate. It is not a matter of party conflict, it is a matter of promoting a consensus—or it was not more than 20 years the time that has elapsed since the last de-absorption operation. in this sense, the CDS, which took the initiative to promote this debate, is perfectly available to build this consensus, and to request an intervention, of course, that European funds are needed in order to be able to finance the operation, and thus we will be able once and for all to solve this problem in order to help populations, economic activities and to defend the existing environment in the Aveiro River. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u22	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Aveiro River is indeed a unique ecosystem in the country. It is the source of income and survival of many families, hundreds of families living in this coastal area, it is a way of communication and could be a source of economic and tourist development. It could be all this and much more and, however, it is becoming, in certain areas, a real swamp. The accumulation of inerts on the canals, the absence of intervention for the replacement of these same channels, the fact that the disabsorption works, the latter, have been done more than 20 years ago, have put the Aveiro River, in many of its areas, into complete abandonment. Therefore, the Left Block took the initiative to present a draft resolution for the dismantling of Aveiro River and we welcome, of course, all the other parties who followed the example of the Left Block and also scheduled their draft resolution in the same direction. We have introduced the draft resolution because we are actually talking about a unique ecosystem that is at risk because the absorption seriously impairs the reproduction of species. We are talking about the support of hundreds of families who are at risk because seafarers have fewer bivalves to catch, because ships do not have navigability in the river and therefore fishing becomes difficult or even impossible, because the winding up of the river facilitates the flood of land when it is invaded by the sea and salines the land, also making agriculture impossible. We are talking about a tourist potential that is at risk because navigability is extremely low, we are talking about nautical sports activities that cannot be done, we are talking about a natural and very important good for the Aveiro district that is slowly destroying. Therefore, the Left Block wants and requires urgent and effective answers. Certainly, the population of the Aveiro River is full of promises that are not realized. Governments have passed, in particular the last in which both the CDS-PP and the PSD had responsibilities in the Ministry of the Environment and the ria was about to disintegrate. in the program Polis da ria de Aveiro, the most important project, which was the draining of the river, was to be done. So, no more promises! It's really time for action! For this reason, the legislative initiative of the Left Block points to very concrete solutions. First, that progresses immediately, and once and for all, with the deforestation of the river Aveiro ; second, and to solve other problems that also exist in the district of Aveiro, that the inerts that are removed from the river are used for strengthening the shores and for feeding the beaches of the district, which are severely affected by coastal erosion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u24	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Aveiro River, as it is known, is one of the most extraordinary ecosystems in continental territory. This is an estuarine system, i.e. a transition ecosystem between a river — Vouga — and the sea, which has enormous environmental relevance, to the point of having deserved integration into the Natura 2000 Network. Now, geomorphologically, over the centuries, as it is known, also the bar, i.e., the point of connection between the river and the sea, swayed along the coast until it was fixed by the hand of man, in the place where it is still today, at the beginning of the nineteenth century. As has already been mentioned by the previous speakers, it also takes on the particularity of the people since immemorial times to have fixed themselves along their margins, assuming the river, in their experiences, such a relevance that it can be said with property that the Aveiro river forms the identity of their nations. Regarding the phenomenon of absorption, it is important to recognize that it is a natural phenomenon that has always occurred, but the truth is that this phenomenon and this natural process has also been changed by human intervention, when setting the port of Aveiro, watching from there an acceleration of the deterioration of the conditions of navigation and an increase in the deposition of inerts that must be opposed by human intervention, by means of de-absorption operations, those that should take on a regular nature. The truth, however, is that, as has already been said, this regular nature has not happened. It should be noted that the last relevant de-absorption operation took place some 20 years ago, leading to an increasingly indisputable and unbearable deterioration in the living conditions of fishing communities and environmental values, and also jeopardizing the tourist potential, including recreational nautical activity in the Aveiro River. It is therefore necessary to de-absorption that promotes the regularisation and navigation of the channels, that promotes the strengthening of their margins, that promotes, in an expression, the biophysical stability of the river. However, it is true that the previous government, four years after having taken possession of the situation of the Aveiro River, in particular by the Members of the Socialist Party, on the situation of the de-absorption of the Aveiro River, only replied in 2015 that this was "a complex problem" and that the best approach to the problem was to be assessed together. The joint evaluation was being carried out by the various Ministries with competence on the subject. We are pleased to note that the current government, by the hand of the Minister of the Environment, has achieved what the previous one had never achieved, i.e. to ensure funding for the de-absorption of the Aveiro River. And it did so with the particularity of linking the disabsorption to the coast, that is to say, to ensure that the sand removed from the river will strengthen the dunes—about 1, 5 million cubic metres—and thus allocate it to the beaches and sedimentary beds. This is a happy option, which enables us to do what has so far been closed, i.e. that the Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources (PO SEUR) will finance the disabsorption of the Aveiro River, thus ensuring its implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u27	It has already been announced, and we note that the disabsorption of the Aveiro River will constitute, and I quote, "the country's largest undertaking in the defence of the coast and coastal lakes within the framework of Portugal 2020" — it is not too emphasized and welcomed. So, and ending up, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we propose to the Assembly of the Republic is that it recognises the importance of the disabsorption of the Aveiro River and that, through the approval of our draft resolution and, I presume, of the other draft resolutions that are presented, signal to the Government the importance of this disabsorption, so that the same and the revitalization of the Aveiro River can be a reality. And they'll be-CL- him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u28	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens submit to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution recommending to the Government the urgent need to disarm the Aveiro River. The Aveiro River, as mentioned above, involves a very rich biological diversity of the estuarine systems. it has already identified hundreds of species of benthic invertebrates, including molluscs and arthropods, and also many species of fish and birds, among others. To stop, therefore, the loss of biodiversity, which is overwhelming worldwide, is a commitment that all societies must make. To this end, the Convention on Biological Diversity, signed at the Rio Summit in 1992, was extremely important, but fundamental are all actions taken at regional and local level to ensure the preservation and preservation of species and ecosystems. It appears that the absorption to which the Aveiro River is subjected is precisely a clear threat to its biodiversity, creating, in particular, very unfavourable conditions for the life and reproduction of various species. This aggravation, which has been aggravated, also has social and economic repercussions greatly felt by local populations, in particular the riparians, insofar as it hinders or prevents the fishing activity and the catch of benthic species, and also because it generates, in some circumstances, floods in neighbouring agricultural land, destroying crops and salinizing the fields, with very sharp losses for small farmers. More: Assorption also creates difficulties for navigability, affecting, inter alia, tourism and nautical sports, due to difficulties in the movement of vessels, including famous moliers. The absorption of the Aveiro River undermines the sustainable development of the region, adversely affecting its environmental, social and economic aspects. That is why everyone is aware of the urgency of the disabsorption of the river. He has often been promised, but the truth is that the last disarming action has been done more than 20 years ago and, in these two decades, the lack of intervention and maintenance has returned the problem to the river and promoted its worsening. The dredgings were planned under the Coastal Police—Ria de Aveiro programme, but never happened. The current Minister of the Environment has already made a public commitment to move forward with dredgings, making use of European funds under the Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ( PO SEUR) with a financial predictability of EUR 25 million. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of these facts, the Greens Ecological Party believes that the Assembly of the Republic must continue to follow the issue, as it has done, but must now go further and urge the Government to act urgently so that all the difficulties that result in the actual disabsorption of the Aveiro River are taken. That is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom The Greens, in particular, propose two things: to recommend to the Government that they take all the procedures to ensure that the Aveiro River is dissolved, with an urgent nature and listening to local entities, associations and communities; to determine the use of sands removed from the context of this deforestation, always taking into account the characteristics of this sand, for coastal consolidation interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u30	Mr António Topa has the floor now, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Draft resolution No 562 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), submitted by the PSD, concerns the disabsorption and regulation of the flows of the Aveiro River. It is a unique ecosystem in the country, with a huge biodiversity, where economic and leisure activities are developed that greatly contribute to the development of the whole region, such as the treatment and marketing of salt, professional and amateur fishing, the cultivation of rice, the exploitation of forests and pineapples, the practice of nautical sports or cycling. The work of deforestation is framed in the project of the Polis Litoral—Ria de Aveiro program. The need and priority for intervention in the Aveiro River was recognised by the current Minister of the Environment in order to continue the work planned in the Aveiro River Police, in particular the works for their de-absorption, and the situation has worsened as time passes, degrading an unreplaceable environmental, tourist and economic heritage. The disabsorption of the river is a long- claimed necessity by the populations, fishermen, economic agents, tourists and authorities, having been carried out the same work for more than 20 years, and the same is, of course, again absorbed. Members of the Committee on the Environment have repeatedly questioned the Minister of the Environment about this process of de-absorbing the river. What we know is that such intervention and works were planned and planned to be carried out at the time of the previous PSD/CDS government, lacking, when the current government took possession, above all, of aspects of environmental licensing and also of the model of financing of the work through European funds. Thus, last November 24, 2016, the media announced by statements made by the Minister of the Environment that the de-absorption of the Aveiro River would be a reality, that the works would be financed by the PO SEUR in EUR 25 million, that the work would be going to the competition in the second quarter of 2017 and that after its appointment it would have a period of execution of one and a half years, ending in the first half of 2019. With the disabsorption of the Aveiro River, which is very important for this region, the problems mentioned above will be practically solved. With the de-absorption works carried out, no less important and to reduce problems resulting from the hydrodynamics of the tides, in particular due to their amplitude, with high volumes of water inputs and outputs, especially in the areas of the river, which cause erosion of the margins and channels, the invasion and salinization of agricultural land and also some difficulties with navigability in low seas situations, it will be necessary to study and develop solutions to regulate the flows that allow for greater efficiency to those works of de-absorption, allowing a river with more constant flows, with good conditions of navigation and where agricultural land is not invaded and salinized. in addition to the recommendation to the Government to promote the de-absorption of the river and the strengthening of dams and margins, it should also be recommended that the Government, in accordance with the terms announced by the Minister of the Environment, ensure that the de-absorption works in the Aveiro River are carried out within the announced deadlines, that the work be presented in the second quarter of 2017 and that, after consigning a year and a half, the Government is finalised during the first half of 2019 ; that the sediments resulting from the dredging of the de-absorption works be used for strengthening and consolidating the shores of the river and the cordon and, where appropriate, for the feeding of the beaches, if technically and economically advisable ; that, at the same time, the sediments be studied and implemented solutions for regulating the tails that allow to complement the de-absorption works, with more constant caudas, with better conditions of navigational conditions and in order to prevent the soils to be carried out. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u32	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has been monitoring over the years the problem of the absorption of Aveiro River both with institutional intervention and with visits and contacts with local populations, having expressed concerns even with the abandonment to which Aveiro River has been voted. We know of the negative impacts of this landing, particularly for artisanal fishing, and we recognize the need for the de-absorption of the Aveiro River. There are, however, concerns that have come to us and that we cannot help but express ourselves. The de-absorption of the Aveiro River should follow a planning that takes into account the reality of the entire area and the possible impacts of this disabsorption, and it should be ensured that the way in which it will be carried out will not mean damage. In fact, we remember that in the last dissolution, which has been mentioned here, almost 20 years ago, the dredgings were deposited in the space of the margin, then returning to the river bed and, at the moment, there are areas in which the sands work as natural dams that are preventing an invasion of the river waters to adjacent lands and fields, blocking a salinization of the soils and possible use of them. in this sense, it is important that the disabsorption actions caution this reality. We understand that the de-absorption of the Aveiro River should not be disconnected from a river planning plan to reconcile the various economic activities, such as fishing, fish farming, tourism and leisure, and that the studies needed to measure the impacts and possible conflicts or overlaps that may represent a source of problems and that may be an obstacle to the development of this important regional asset which is the Aveiro River. We also understand that this is an inseparable matter for the resolution of the Low Vouga lagunar issue, namely the construction of the dam. Another concern that we have concerns about the future of sands, and a study must also be done for the best solution, ensuring, from the very outset, the protection of public interests. Finally, this is a process that must involve and proceed to the auscultation of associations and other local entities of the various local bodies, as well as of the local community, an involvement that we find essential to ensure that different concerns are taken care of and that the de-absorption is better suited to needs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u34	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for a new speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Listening to Mr. PSD's speech, we realize that there is no relevant intervention in the deforestation of the Aveiro River for more than 20 years. It is that, says the PSD, « it was planned in the project Pólis Litoral - Ria de Aveiro. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is true, but it was not done, despite the PSD until there was a former Secretary-General in the Board of Directors of the Coastal Poles - Ria de Aveiro. The honourable Member said that the former Government did all the housework and that there was no need to complete the licensing and financing aspects. Was there nothing left, sir? Oh, my God! Was it just funding and licensing? So in the paper the thing was, but it wasn't really going on, that's all. Thus, it is very clear why the former government has not really done anything and nothing has been done in the dislosure of the Aveiro River for more than 20 years. What the Left Block wants with its project and with the push of this debate in Parliament is that, indeed, something will be done now by the River Aveiro, in particular its disintegration. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u36	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for one speech. Mr. João Piinho de Almeida ( CDS-PP ). — Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the conclusion of this debate, I believe that what we retain as essential is the consensus on the need to de-absorption of the Aveiro River, the importance that this has from the environmental point of view and also from the social and economic point of view. It is therefore important that, with initiatives from a number of parliamentary groups, we all manage to put forward the essential thing, that all of us are able to join in what is an appeal from the Portuguese Parliament to the Government of Portugal, so that, over the past 20 years, we can solve this problem once and for all, have a solution and not make the solution of the de-absorption of the Aveiro River go along the way, on the pretext of political-party wars which, at this point, make no sense. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u37	With no further interventions on this point, we continue to move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 549 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Increase in national minimum wage ( CFP ) and 566 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a serious dialogue with the social partners to achieve a medium-term social partnership agreement on growth, competitiveness and employment including the updating of the national minimum wage ( PSD ). For the first intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in our country, almost a third of the people in poverty are workers. Every day they get up to work, but what they take home at the end of the month is not enough for basic expenses. It is no novelty for anyone that low wages and, in particular, the value of the national minimum wage is an undeniable cause of poverty. The national minimum wage is a conquest of the April Revolution and, to date, has represented a very significant improvement in the living conditions of workers. But over the decades it has been profoundly devalued with updates below the increase in average incomes and consumer price index, with long freezing periods, with emphasis on the latter, between 2011 and 2014. The latest available data point to more than 630,000 workers to survive with 470 € liquid, 530 € liquid. And it should be remembered that, if the national minimum wage had been updated, considering inflation and increased productivity, today would be around €900 per month. We value the minimum wage increase for the €530 and the value of the €557 indicated for the next year. These values are inseparable from the struggle of workers and the action of the CFP, but are clearly insufficient. It does not allow the recovery of purchasing power and the fight against poverty. Portugal maintains one of the lowest national minimum wages in Europe, even in view of the 14-month remuneration, and is at risk of further delay, particularly with regard to Spain. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of the distribution of wealth in our country translates a scandalous concentration of wealth and this will not be the work of chance. In Portugal, 1 % of the population has 25 % of the wealth and 5 % of the population accumulates about 50 % of the national wealth. And it is precisely to ensure a fairer distribution of wealth, to combat poverty and to dynamize the economy that the increase to 600 €, from January 2017, is so important. And don't come, ladies. Members, with the swindling argument of costs for companies and counterparts for employers. The remuneration is only 18 % in the structure of the company's costs, much less than costs with energy, fuel, telecommunications, credit or insurance. It was not enough for the unacceptable reduction of the Single Social Tax, the contributions of companies to social security, and here the patronage is still blackmailing more measures to subsidize the increase in national minimum wage. Today, what is a genuine national requirement is the increase of the national minimum wage and no longer bore them to the patronage. Today, what is mandatory for the development of the country is the general increase in wages, the fight against precariousness and the deregulation of working hours, the end of the lapse of collective bargaining. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the value of the national minimum wage should be fixed to the Government. The problem lies not in the existence of agreements in social dialogue, but in its content, in order to give employers the possibility of vetoing measures to combat poverty and improve living and working conditions, such as the increase in national minimum wage. [[PCP applause.]] The Government shall assume its constitutional powers and decide to fix for January 2017 the amount of €600 for the increase of the national minimum wage. The increase in national minimum wage is a national requirement for reasons of social and economic justice. Therefore, the PCP advocates an extraordinary increase in the national minimum wage to 600 € from January 2017, from which regular annual increases will be made. This is the contribution of the CFP to the struggle of workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u39	For a second speech, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group presented a draft resolution recommending to the Government a serious dialogue with the social partners in order to reach a medium-term agreement on growth, competitiveness and employment and to include updating the national minimum wage. Mrs. Members, betting on social consultation is an important objective, trying a medium-term social agreement must be a national imperative and promoting the updating of the national minimum wage is a requirement to establish social justice. Therefore, on these subjects, the PSD attitude is of great clarity, open-minded and constructive. First, we are in favour of a medium-term social agreement: an agreement concluded between the social partners in the context of social cooperation; an agreement which affects essential issues for the country, namely growth, competitiveness, income policy, productivity, national minimum wage and improved levels of social justice; an agreement which is, in the general context of the uncertainty in which we live, a reference to stability, security and security for economic and social actors; an agreement capable of generating confidence, confidence in investors, confidence in workers, confidence in Portugal and trust abroad, in essence, confidence in our present and, above all, in our future. Secondly, we are in favour of updating the national minimum wage, and for two reasons: for a matter of justice and for a requirement of consistency. With regard to consistency, it is clear from the outset that it was the former Government, supported by the PSD Parliamentary Group, which undertook to raise the national minimum wage as soon as the troika left Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] A reason for justice is the fact that, even today, the national minimum wage is low. And if the continuing updates of the national minimum wage are made over the years, on a basis of gradualism and sustainability, we will achieve the best of two essential worlds, the world of improving the purchasing power of the weaker workers, without compromising the world of the competitiveness of companies at national and international level. Finally, we are in favour of an increase in the national minimum wage to be decided at the centre of social consultation. Social consultation, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a social, political and cultural heritage that cannot be forgotten and that should instead be promoted. Let's be frank and straightforward. The Government may decide to increase the national minimum wage without agreement in the context of social consultation. It is true, but, attention, this is not the way of dialogue, that is the way of taxation. This is not the Portuguese tradition, which has always been to update the national minimum wage preceded by a social agreement. It will be said that tradition does not make law and that tradition can be changed. It's true, but it's not less true, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the tradition of dialogue and the culture of dialogue are instruments that are politically stronger and socially more consistent than the ways of unilateralism and taxation. Whether or not there is agreement at the heart of social dialogue depends above all on the political will and the spirit of openness: the spirit of openness of the social partners and the political will of the government. And the truth is this: at such an important moment as this, there is no reason for the selfishness of the parties that are above the national interest. in a time of great uncertainty and instability, there is no serious reason to lose the opportunity to strengthen social stability, solidarity between economic and social partners and, above all, confidence among Portuguese. Today, in the opposition, as before, in the government, our attitude is the same as ever: coherence, justice, a constructive spirit and, above all, concern with the deepest national interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u41	Mr Jorge Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the CFP and the PSD for the initiatives they have scheduled for today's session. This is a timely issue, for two reasons. First, this theme allows us to make a balance sheet on the increase of the national minimum wage to 530 €, which occurred one year ago. at that time, we listened well to the prophecies of the right, of the employers, and even of the European Commission on the misfortunes which were about Portugal, on the work in Portugal, on employment in Portugal, on investment in Portugal. And none of it was confirmed in numbers and none of it was confirmed in reality. What we have is one of the main elements of income recovery, which is part of the essence of the agreements concluded between the parties that gave rise to the current parliamentary majority. The issue is also appropriate, secondly, because it enables the public to reaffirm the public position of the various political formations represented here on this issue. The Portuguese minimum wage, which continues below 600 €, even if it was increased to that value, would still be below the values already practised in countries such as Spain or even Greece. We are therefore talking about an element of deep injustice, a structural delay in the Portuguese economy and one of the roots of the inequality of screaming incomes that has already been underlined in the intervention of Mrs Rita Rato. It is therefore fair — and it would be possible — to update the national minimum wage now for 600 €. That is the position of the Left Block, and therefore we follow the draft resolution presented here by the PCP. Unfortunately, since the start of negotiations between the various parties a year ago, it has been clear that the political conditions for the immediate update for the 600 € are not met. It was in this frame that the Left Block wanted to resume, let us say, the experience of 2006, in which the CGTP, which defended the increase of the minimum wage to 500 €, negotiated with the Government and signed the phased increase of the minimum wage between 2007 and 2011, of the, then 385 € to the 500 €. Also here, without ever giving up, as it never gave up the CGTP of updating the minimum wage for the 500 €, the Left Block sought to ensure that workers' wages would not be below a certain level of update. We do not miss the opportunity to ensure a pace of updates that would allow some justice to be restored in the situation of the minimum wage in Portugal. This gave rise to months of campaign against the minimum wage, from the European Commission to hunger for the competitiveness of companies and the country to the patronate to cry for the emptying of social dialogue, and which should ultimately only serve to leave everything as it is or make symbolic increases such as those we used to, or even the UGT proposal, which must even be the only union center in the world that proposes an update of the minimum wage below the government proposal! It is in this context of great adversity, of great campaign against updating the minimum wage that the agreement that the Left Block signed with the Socialist Party became the best guarantee, of which we are proud, that the minimum wage will even have an update to 557 € in January 2017. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This salary update reaches one in five Portuguese workers. In each new contract which was signed in 2016, more than one third, i.e. 35 % of the new contracts correspond to this level of remuneration. It is therefore this essential dignity of work, this need to update and to do justice to those who work today. Solving the Portuguese lag in the minimum wage is an urgent problem and no medium-term strategy can serve as a hypocritical pretext to maintain injustice and injustice. It is time to do justice to those who work, it is time to update the national minimum wage. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u43	Mr José Luís Ferreira, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Valuation of wages, in particular by increasing the national minimum wage, is a key element in changing policies that the country needs and why the Portuguese want. This is a change of options in the face of the policies of the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, policies that were mainly marked by the worsening living conditions of Portuguese people, the deepening of social inequalities, the emphasis on the exploitation of those who work and the systematic loss of purchasing power by families. in this regard, the PSD/CDS government, contrary to what was established, has spent four years without any update of the national minimum wage. Repeat : four years without any update! in fact, only at the end of 2014 was the previous government made a slight increase in the minimum wage, which, however, ended up serving as an exchange rate for employers to pay less than a single social rate. That is, four years after taking possession, the PSD / CDS government increased slightly in October 2014 to a value that should have been implemented on 1 January 2011. We were therefore four years late. Today, it seems to us that it is not necessary to make large accounts to conclude that 530 € liquid for a wage, even if minimal, is a low, very low value, in view of the cost of living and the purchasing power with which the Portuguese live. The situation is very complicated, I would even say that the situation is desperate for the generality of families and is even more difficult for people with lower incomes, including the more than 650 000 workers who receive only the national minimum wage per month. We are, unfortunately, one of the countries of the European Union with the greatest incidence of workers in this situation. Portugal is one of the countries of the whole European Union with the highest wage inequality and where there is a higher percentage of poor workers or at risk of poverty and maintains one of the lowest minimum wages in Europe. This sad reality is mainly due to the systematic devaluation of the minimum wage that has been made over the years, especially during the four years of PSD / CDS government. By making the accounts, we realize that the national minimum wage is less valuable today than it was when it was instituted. In real terms, the national minimum wage is currently less than 10 % less than what it has been worth 40 years. It is therefore very low, and it is low at all levels. It is low when compared with the value of the minimum wage of the other countries of the European Union, it is low when we make a reading of social inequalities in our country and it is low, to spray to unsustainability, when we look at the cost of living for the Portuguese. Moreover, the value of wages in general and that of the national minimum wage, in addition to being a decisive factor for a fair distribution of wealth and for improving the living conditions of workers, is still a decisive element for economic recovery, for the dynamisation of domestic demand and for job creation. It is therefore entirely fair that the Government should update the national minimum wage by placing it in the 600 € already at the beginning of 2017. We therefore follow the legislative initiative of the CFP. Regarding the PSD proposal, Greens consider it necessary to remember some important data in this discussion. The first seems basic to us: it is not the social consultation that defines or sets the value of the national minimum wage. We therefore do not want to reverse the premises! Whoever sets or defines the value of the national minimum wage is the government rather than social consultation. What the law says is that the government should listen to social consultation, but between hearing and deciding, we agree, it will be a big difference. Much less, sirs. Members, this House may be conditional on the discussion of social dialogue. That's all I needed! Therefore, this element that the Greens bring for discussion is intended only to prevent the assumptions being reversed, saying that it is up to the government to fix or determine the value of the national minimum wage. Finally, it is important to know what the PSD ultimately wants with its draft resolution. What the PSD wants is for the Government to engage in a serious dialogue with the social partners with a view to reaching a medium-term agreement on growth, competitiveness and employment that includes updating the national minimum wage. In other words, what the PSD intends is to repeat what happened in the 2006 agreement, which pointed out that in January 2011 the national minimum wage was set at €500, but it was not. The agreement was literally ignored or violated in 2011 and after that was what was seen: the PSD and CDS government simply ordered the freezing of the value of the national minimum wage and only in 2014, and by pressure from those who work, it was that it was forced to proceed to a lean increase of that value. So we can tell the PSD that we've seen this film, and unfortunately it wasn't a fiction film. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u45	Mr José Rui Cruz, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Government Programme, approved in this Chamber, proposes that an increase in the national minimum wage should be traced to the minimum wage of 600 € in 2019. The planned route, as we know, is €530 in 2016, €557 in 2017, €580 in 2018 and finally €600 in 2019. It was with this proposal that the PS presented the legislative elections on 4 October 2015 and it was with this Government Programme that created the conditions for the agreement of the left parliament, with a serious proposal for a legislature. It is therefore very confusing to read the proposal of the PSD resolution that, at the end of three pages, nothing proposes and throws into social consultation the possibility of updating the national minimum wage. It is important to remember at this moment that the PS has always valued social consultation, unlike the PSD, as the recent past well demonstrates! Mrs. Members of the PSD, there is another big difference that may have passed you by or, then, wanted you to go unnoticed. While Mr. Members are dealing with the updating of the national minimum wage as yet another perfectly disposable aspect of such a medium and long-term agreement focused on growth, competitiveness and employment strategies, which may or may not happen, given the immense less favourable circumstances and prospects that you expect for the future of the Portuguese economy, the PS part of the following principle and the following conviction: the increase of the minimum wage is a fundamental condition for the economic and social development of the country. And it is with this starting point that the government goes to social dialogue. This is a proposal to comply with, it is unacceptable and based on serious forecasts of growth and economic development. They do not, therefore, demagogicly diabolize this government's relationship with social dialogue, because it is your responsibility, as a coalition that led the previous government, the total absence of social consultation. Moreover, we see the degree of growth and development that the country has experienced during the period when the PSD/CDS coalition ruled the country: between 2012 and 2014, the national minimum wage remained unchanged, under the justification of combating unemployment and the breakdown of labour income. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They couldn't even reduce unemployment or increase the economy! How could they even propose a value for the increase in the national minimum wage for 2017? The PSD resolution project... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Please listen, I'm almost done. [[PSD protests.]] The PSD resolution project is no more than an extension of the record of ineffective readjustment measures... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... promoters of deep social inequality, a total inability to look at people's problems and a strategy of fear, of intimidation by the risk of a supposed imminent collapse with which, during the previous legislation, the PSD/CDS coalition injected Portuguese society, which contributed to the impoverishment and weakening of the population, in particular the poorest, workers with the lowest wages and the poorest pensioners. On the other hand, the richest concentrated even more wealth and was notorious for the relationship between the impoverishment of workers who received lower wages. But that time is over, happily for all of us. in a governance year only with the current government unemployment fell to 2010 levels, contrary to the claims of the PSD leader that at the beginning of this year he said that a possible increase in the minimum wage would increase unemployment! We have verified that this has not occurred. The national economy has grown 1, 6 %, the minimum wage has been updated at the beginning of this year and will continue its growth trajectory, as proposed in the Government Programme... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u47	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions so that you can continue to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u48	The President will do her best to be tolerant of time. We share the same concerns expressed in the CFP draft resolution. in practice, we want the same, but at different rhythms. More: the re-evaluation of the national minimum wage is just one more of the government's strategies to achieve the goal of improving the income of families, including the updating of pensions, the strengthening of social support, the revision of labour law, among others. Therefore, it is this phased and structured way that we definitely undertake to change to better the living conditions of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u49	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing a bit of an unusual debate and, in fact, I believe that it is not well understood by the Portuguese. We have heard the Left Block speak in « hypocritical pretext» ; we have heard the Socialist Party say that it wishes the same as the PCP, but at different rhythms and the Portuguese do not understand how it is possible to say something like this. in fact, it reveals little ambition. What we want is a minimum wage above what we are discussing, of course, at different rates, but is there anyone who does not want a minimum wage above what we are discussing, at different rates?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u51	The CDS doesn't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u52	Mr José Rui Cruz, after such an inflamed speech, after all, how are you going to vote on the Communist Party's proposal? Does it make sense to have such an inflamed speech and then vote against? So vote in favour, be consistent! in fact, the Portuguese do not understand that there is a basic parliamentary agreement for the legislature and then there are proposals here that are totally inconsequential, because everyone knows that they will not be approved. So the Portuguese think they are wasting time discussing it, without any efficiency. The truth is that the left has a rhetoric: the right is against the increase of the minimum wage. It's a lie.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u53	Yeah, everyone knows about you, doesn't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u54	The right-wing government has increased the minimum wage, even against the will of external creditors. The left says: the right has increased poverty, it is insensitive to poverty. Because still this week we published data indicating and demonstrating that at the end of 2005 the poverty index decreased, despite the enormous difficulties we were facing by the hole in which the left put us. The truth is that the arguments happen, as happens in education, saying that right wanted to destroy the public school, but the confrontation with reality comes to show successively that the left is out of reality, paints a picture on the right that does not correspond to reality and the Portuguese know this very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u55	The Portuguese know, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u56	The question that arises is only one: does it make sense or does it make sense to refer to social dialogue a matter relating to economic activity? Does it make sense or doesn't? There is a left that believes that it makes no sense and that it is not necessary, but there is a huge country that is aware that a matter of this responsibility, which concerns job creation, economic development, the dynamism of our economy, can only be linked to social dialogue and dialogue between employers and workers. in this matter we can only regret what has been said by the Economic and Social Council, showing a path of this majority which devalues social consultation, devalues dialogue between employers and workers and this is something in which we do not see ourselves, which we consider to be extremely negative and, above all, very irresponsible. Here the Socialist Party would have greater responsibility, but the truth is that it has a totally incoherent, completely hypocritical speech—to use the expression of the Left Block—because, in fact, it says something but, after all, we still do not realize whether or not we will approve the proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party. And there is one thing that is not understood, which is to say that it shares the desire to see the minimum wage in these values, but at different rates. That, everyone wants; indeed, they want more. We must all create conditions for us to create wealth and conditions in Portugal to increase the income of workers, businesses and investment. That's what we all want. Of course, saying that we want it at different rates does not say anything and it only conveys to the Portuguese that the Socialist Party is in a vain rhetoric, trying to manage its partisan consensus, but far away from the commitment of social dialogue that it imposes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u57	They defend today the opposite of what they have done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u58	For a new intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just want to leave three notes at the end of this debate. listening to the Socialist Party and the parties who support it gives the feeling that it was the PSD/CDS government that frozen the national minimum wage. It wasn't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the Socialist Party. It was the Socialist Government that frozen it in 2011. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Members, please ask why the Socialist Party has entered into the Memorandum of Understanding that the national minimum wage could not be updated. Be true, be serious and say that it was finally after the troika left Portugal that the government led by Pedro Passos Coelho updated the national minimum wage. [[PS protests.]] Even to finish, I wanted to remind you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I told you recently. In fact, the government can increase the national minimum wage without social consultation, but this is not dialogue, it is imposed, and unfortunately we already realize that you have replaced social consultation by party interests and parliamentary negotiation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u60	For one last intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is always interesting to hear this view of the PSD and the CDS, because the Assembly of the Republic always has all the legitimacy to cut wages and withdraw rights, but it never has the legitimacy to restore them! in the PSD view, the Assembly of the Republic has no legitimacy to do so. [[PCP applause.]] from the PCP, the commitment is the increase of the national minimum wage to 600 €, because this means 534 € net. Therefore, we are in a position to realize that 534 € liquids continue to be insufficient and the path must be in the direction of updating the national minimum wage. There were several moments of freezing of the national minimum wage. There were moments led by PS, but there were also others led by PSD and CDS, which between 2011 and 2014 kept the national minimum wage frozen and did not update it. They increased it but didn't update it. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Members, if you want to have a serious discussion on these matters, say because if the national minimum wage increased according to inflation and productivity today it would be €900. [[PCP applause.]] That's not what's being discussed. What they are proposing is exactly the maintenance of the national minimum wage, which falls short of the needs. With regard to national minimum wage, in practice, social consultation means that employers' confederations apply a veto to all that means improving wages and combating poverty. The Assembly of the Republic cannot do well with that. The CFP is not comfortable with a veto of employers' confederations to an increase in the minimum wage and therefore brings this proposal today, because the CFP commitment is with the workers and with the development of the country. I would also like to say that we are here discussing impossibility, something that, in the words of the PSD and CDS, is perfectly unthinkable. Mrs. Members next to us in Spain are in force an increase in the minimum wage to €700, which in fact meant an increase of €70. This is on the table today and it was possible to do so, here next door. Therefore, what we understand is that the increase in national minimum wage is fundamental to the life of each worker, but it is indispensable for the development of the country, for the strengthening of social security, for the dynamisation of the internal market and that is the commitment of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u62	Mrs Rita Rato has already exceeded the time she had.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u63	I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u64	You're really gonna have to finish right away.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u65	I shall end by saying the following: I shall finish my speech, but I shall not end the struggle for the increase in national minimum wage and for the general increase in wages. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u66	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn to the next item on our agenda, which consists of the discussion of the Reports of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication (ERC) for the years 2014 and 2015. Both the Government and each parliamentary group have three minutes to intervene. For the first intervention, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is part of our agenda today's review of the Reports of Regulation and Activity and Accounts for Social Communication, for the years 2014 and 2015. The reports under discussion today make a real portrait of what was the regulatory monitoring and analysis during the years 2014 and 2015. I would like to note that the reports are very well prepared, well structured and contain very important information, divided by departments and areas, giving us a perspective on the reality of the market by areas of activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to the Regulatory Body of the Social Communication to oversee and regulate the activity of all existing social media entities in Portugal, under the legal principles and limits on information rigor, exemption and transparency. It is therefore up to this entity to ensure compliance with constitutional and legally enshrined rights and duties with regard to the media sector — such as freedom of the press or the right to information — by maintaining independence, by monitoring compliance with applicable rules and by promoting the effective and regular functioning of this market. Mr. As and Mrs. Members, with regard to the regulatory initiatives of the ERC, as set out in the reports under consideration, it is important to highlight in 2014 the monitoring of television broadcasts by people with special needs and the public consultation on the future of TDT. With regard to 2015, it is important to stress Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August, since, with its entry into force, the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication has become competent to verify and monitor the fulfilment of the communication and transparency duties foreseen on the State's institutional advertising campaigns. in the area of human resources, the process of data transfer of the Nexus assistive control system to the new ELO platform was completed. In 2015 there was a decrease in employees compared to 2014 and consequently a decrease in associated costs. In the years under review, the ERC maintained continuity in international relations with the aim of disseminating regulatory and supervisory activity, establishing contacts and collaboration relationships with foreign congenerous entities. The year 2015 was marked by a set of claims regarding the annual regulatory and supervisory fees charged by the ERC. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end by referring to the important role played by the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, an entity that must take precedence over pluralism and independence, but which in its last term has not always achieved consensus on such important issues as the issue of opinion on TDT. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u68	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Sousa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the ERC team for the invaluable work it has had in creating these Reports that make us a portrait of the state of art and the quality of the social communication we have today in the country. These reports well mirror the weaknesses and strengths of the media companies that we have today and the portrait that we should be concerned about. Social communication is relevant to attesting the quality of democracy and its regulation is crucial to ensuring the freedom and pluralism of the media. But today the middle debate is with paradigm changes at the level of the business, which leave many unknowns for the future. New forms of consumption and content distribution have a direct impact on the sale of physical publications, which requires the remuneration of content production to decrease. Adding to this already important financial impact, the use of the Internet stimulates the spread of advertising and the reduction of its price, which again affects sources of income. With this incognition of future revenues, journalists are hired with low wages and precarious links, in an increasingly concentrated business universe. This is the restriction context in which Portuguese media companies live, which should give even more importance to the debate on the regulatory and supervisory power of their new borders and competences. With the macro context indicated, I would like to refer to the importance of the television environment, because the reports of the ERC highlight the importance that the Portuguese attach to this media. And it seems to me that the conclusions reached are the result of the constraints mentioned above and are reflected equally in the other media. The development of the Portuguese television market has been determined by the provision of program services on the open channel platform and by the consolidation of subscription television. In 2015, 84, 2 % of Portuguese had contact with television. And the three services of general open access programmes — RTP1, SIC and TVI — fully capture the preference of viewers with 56 % share. The reports point to these channels the lack of diversity. There is little diversity in the functions, with entertainment to occupy between 60 % and 73 % of the programming. Without sports diversity, without cultural diversity, with a record in the decrease in the number of hours of programmes dedicated to the interests of minority groups. And without diversity of the protagonists, where 70% of the people present in the information are men. Women, even emerging in categories related to national politics, essentially when they minister, appear markedly as artists or victims. RTP2 guarantees much of this diversity in the remaining channels. But, knowing the audiences, it does not seem to us that referring the country's multiplicity to a residual channel is the best option. The truth is that the television seen by most Portuguese in open channel is little plural and decreases a country already small.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u70	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u71	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. ERC's regulatory work is extended, but it seems to me that this issue is important enough to merit the reflection of Parliament and society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u72	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion we are working here today about the ERC reports for the years 2014 and 2015, not only about its activity but, more importantly, about the situation of social communication, is of great importance to us to take a picture of what is happening in the country in this matter. And we all know the essentiality of social communication in a state of democratic law, and we all also know the difficulties and challenges facing the whole of social communication. Therefore, it is important to highlight some of the activities that are highlighted by the ERC. It highlighted not only the quality of the reports, already mentioned here, but above all the perenniality of the action and organisation of the ERC and, from a material point of view, the creation and operation of the transparency portal and the public consultation on the future of the TDT, which, nowadays, has visible results, are still under way. I would also like to talk about the development and completion of the guidelines on the protection of minors with regard to television content. This is something that has been done for some time now and has finally been completed this year, and it is very important for us to be able to be effective in this matter of combating the viewing of programmes by minors who are not suitable to them. Then I mean — and this is the essential issue — that this term of office of the ERC, which ends now, should be seen as a fruitful mandate. The important thing at this time is that the Regulatory Council should be replaced in due time and without any kind of outrage. It is not possible to have a Regulatory Entity for Social Communication which is in limbo, because it should have completed its mandate and is still there. It is therefore important that it be replaced quickly, without any kind of problem. It is that social communication faces a wide range of challenges and the ERC needs to respond to them. And you have to answer them in very varied channels, especially in the future development of TDT. We already know that there are two more public channels operating, but we have to speed up the remaining competitions for the other two. And above all it is necessary to do the real and decisive study on the extension of the TDT, which is already in preparation and which we have already talked about. Until we know that one in four Portuguese does not yet have paid television at home and that many have to make an effort to have it. So this is an important issue. Then I also want to talk about digital challenges.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u74	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u75	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The ERC needs to prepare itself for this new reality so as not to happen as with the TDT, where we are on the line of Europe. Finally — and thanking you for your kindness, Mr President — I would like to say that it is also important that, in social communication, if you take care of the Portuguese language, something that is discussed throughout the ERC report. It is that we never cease to see written and hear say things like « lose » rather than « loss », « virtue» rather than « virtuality », and « adherence» rather than « adherence ». So it was important that they also take a look at that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u76	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - let me congratulate the members of the ERC who now finish their duties and wish them the greatest happiness for the future. The evaluation of regulatory reports for the years 2014 and 2015 occurs at a time when the results of a study conducted at the University of Coimbra are known to reflect on. I am referring to some numbers. in a sample of 806 journalists, only 12 % have a valid term contract, 40 % take dues between 500 € and 1000 €, 7, 3 % earn below the national minimum wage, and half of Portuguese journalists are precarious. This consists of newspapers today and yesterday. But there are more: 54, 9 % of respondents understand that their work situation conditions journalistic performance and 28, 9 % consider that it affects the fulfilment of the ethics and deontology of the profession. Sentomatically, the President of the ERC has spoken about the proletarianization of journalism. in these conditions, it is difficult to conceive that social communication can fulfil its function in a framework of pluralism, rigour and transparency, indispensable to the functioning of democracy and the exercise of citizenship.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u78	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u79	Even because the reports of the Regulatory Entity also indicate an increasing concentration of media and do not cease to alert to the consequences of a profound and vertiginous mutation affecting the entire sector, particularly through the expansion of digital, the Internet and social networks. We live a stage of paradigm change. This change, in its immense complexity, echoes the documents under consideration. The information contained in them is a source of reflection that allows us to signal the issues of the future, but above all the questions of the immediate, on which it is necessary to act already. If entropy invades the public space, if the moment takes the place of the agenda, if journalists are required more functions and skills and are increasingly precarious and poorly paid, then, it is because it is necessary to do anything. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u80	from there also the importance of the public radio and television service, which is largely addressed in the reports. Public service needs to be increasingly a benchmark of quality, rigor, diversity and pluralism. I leave a final note: the reports are practically oblivious to terrestrial digital television. In the context of a structuring issue of the audiovisual landscape, a reference was expected. Even because more than 2 million Portuguese would benefit from open-label television. We hope that the omission will be corrected in the 2016 regulatory report. On the other hand, I would like to reiterate the usefulness of the work produced by the ERC. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u81	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The criticisms that the PCP has always made to the nature and design of the ERC are known, which obviously does not mean any judgment of negative value in relation to the suitability of persons who belong to the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication and its Regulatory Council. However, we consider that an entity such as the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, which has as its primary function the pluralism of social communication, is not in its own composition a model of pluralism, on the contrary. therefore a criticism that we have always formulated, since this entity was proposed, in the context of constitutional review. It should be noted that these reports are appreciated at a time when the media sector is undergoing a very serious crisis in several areas. And this is a crisis that could call into question the fundamental right to freedom of information. It is known, and has already been mentioned here, the extreme precariousness of the social communication sector from a labour point of view, with editorials that are systematically and frequently reduced, obviously causing greater difficulties for journalists and objectively degrading the quality of information. It is known the extreme precariousness of existing working relationships in the field of social communication, with journalists and other poorly paid professionals, with precarious links, often with illegal recourse to trainees to ensure the functioning of the editorials. It is also known the high level of concentration of the media sector, which is increasingly restricted to a very small number of communication groups that call into question the diversity and plurality of this sector. Obviously, this situation places many media bodies, the main media bodies, including televisions, operating at the service of strictly commercial interests, seeking audiences, with the consequent degradation of the programming supply and lack of diversity of the programming that is offered. This means a limitation on freedom of the press, either on its part of the right to inform the professionals of the communication, or on the part of the right of citizens to be informed without impediments or discrimination. So we are going through an extremely difficult and crisis moment in this respect. Obviously, the public service of the media has an essential factor here that it is important to guarantee and that the State also has a duty to guarantee, that it is that citizens who use TDT, and that they have no alternative other than TDT, receive this service in quality conditions, which has not happened over the last few years, and it is a situation that needs to be monitored and that it is important to collect.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u83	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u84	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. But it must also be said that pluralism in the media is not only guaranteed through the public service, but also through the requirement for all actors in the sector, both public and private, to meet the requirements of plurality and pluralism arising from the Constitution and the law. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u85	After the assessment of the Reports of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication (ERC) for the years 2014 and 2015, we shall proceed to the vote. Before that, however, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to account for some diplomas that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: proposals by lein. 46 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the exercise of trade union freedom and the rights of collective bargaining and participation of public security police personnel with police duties, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 47 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Disciplinary Statute of the Public Security Police, which falls to 1. the Commission ; and draft resolutions 573 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to allow the creation of the Viana do Alentejo hydraulic circuit ( connection to the alqueva album ) ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 574 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the urgent construction of a public hospital in Sintra and in defense of the improvement of health care ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u87	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 203 presences, to which are added 4 ( MEPs José Moura Soeiro, the Left Block, Sonia Fertuzinhos, the PS, Amadeu Soares Alberaria, the PSD, and Vania Dias da Silva, the CDS ) performing 207 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all we shall appreciate vote No 170 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Cristóvão Guerreiro Norte ( PSD ), which will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u88	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last November 28th, at the age of 78, Cristovão Guerreiro Norte. Natural of Almancil, Loule municipality, coming from a modest family, experienced the demand of work as a child, promptly after completing 4. the class. Only later, at the age of 14, he met conditions to resume and deepen his studies, becoming a law student at the University of Coimbra. He has performed the duties of Delegate of the Attorney-General of the Republic and the Conservative of the Register in several districts, as well as has been a lawyer for many years, most of the time under pro bono regime, giving him the favors of the most disadvantaged layers of the population. He was the founder of the PPD / PSD in the Algarve and, in the elections at the Constituent Assembly, was elected a member of his standing commission, along with emeritus figures such as Jorge Miranda or Freitas do Amaral, among others. He was an uninterrupted Member until 1991. its abundant and multi-purpose parliamentary contributions, expands the co-authorship of the bill that established the University of Algarve, perhaps the most relevant conquest of the region in 42 years of democracy, as well as its commitment to international forum issues, within the framework of the Inter-Parliamentary Union or in favour of Timor-Leste. Cristovão Guerreiro Norte was a man who was lost in love with his land and his region. A land has never been so in someone's mouth. This tribute also leaves a legacy as a monographist. Rough Democrat, humanist in acts, tolerant in practices, fought for ideas and not against people, which made him never give in to resentment or resentment and was always accompanied by the unthinking observance of his convictions, which he exposed in a way that was snatched and contagious, but respectful. in the Algarve, in particular, played an unmistakable role in the process of democratic normalization, devoting its energies to the implementation of the PSD, a task that engaged with unique tenacity, being one of the main drivers of the traditional Pontal Festival. On the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the approval of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, he was thanked with the title of honorary Member, a ceremony to which, with remarkable joy and deep recognition, he appeared. Meeting in plenary session, it is with deep sadness and regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks its death and expresses condolences to its relatives. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u89	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 168 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations to students, teachers and educational communities ( PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u90	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Published the results of international student evaluation studies, PISA ( Program for International Student Assessment), TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study) 4. the year and TIMSS Advanced, thanks publicly to all the schools and students who, in 2015, voluntarily participated in these evaluation instruments and accepted the challenge of representing our country internationally, a representation that, due to the seriousness with which they faced the challenges and the results obtained, dignified the national educational system and is a cause of pride for Portugal. The significant improvements recorded in 2015 in the performances of 15-year students of all modalities of education and training in the mobilization of reading, mathematics and science knowledge in Portugal's sixth participation in the PISA, in the performances of students of the 4. the year in mathematics in the third edition of TIMSS and in the first participation of students who attend 12. the year at TIMSS Advanced was a recognition, in the eyes of Europe and the world, of the national effort, continued, persistent and consistent in improving the national education system. Education in Portugal improved and, with it, we all improved. The results achieved testify to the dedication and conquest obtained by thousands of students and are reason for pride and recognition for all those who support them and work with them daily. The Assembly of the Republic is associated with the feeling of national recognition for the results obtained, welcoming students and thanking teachers, technicians, operational assistants, families, authorities and services protected by the Ministry of Education for their extraordinary work and commitment. This great success dignifies Portugal, is a cause of pride for all Portuguese and a stimulus to continue to improve. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u91	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u92	The following is vote No 174 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the results of Portuguese school students in international studies ( BE ), which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u93	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The results of the PISA 2015 tests, TIMMS and TIMMS Advanced show a continuous improvement in the performance of Portuguese school students that is important to enhance. It is therefore worth a greeting to teachers, parents and educators, technical and operational assistants, school technicians and students who participated in these international evaluation instruments. These results, and particularly those of the 2015 PISA, reflect continuous progress in public school over many years and therefore cannot and should not be taken as a product of the action of a single minister, a single government, a single set of political measures. in the case of students aged 15 evaluated in this test, the impossibility of any appropriation is even more noticeable, since they were covered by many programs and measures during their school course, but not by the major changes of the previous PSD / CDS government. Because progress will never be born from conformism, it is important to go beyond satisfaction in reading these tests, we also have to take advantage of the opportunity to identify and correct errors. in the case of TIMMS, the improvement of results to Mathematics cannot be isolated from the results in the other disciplines, leading to a reflection on the bet on so - called ‘structuring disciplines’ and a possible ‘ curricular functioning. ’ As Lurdes Figueiral said, President of the Association of Professors of Mathematics: ‘We welcome the rise to Mathematics, which had already come from 2011, but this rise also raises some questions. (...) There must be a balanced curriculum. If the rise is due to the disadvantage of some disciplinary areas, we only have to lament. Another aspect that cannot be forgotten is the high retention rates indicated by PISA 2015, far above the OECD average. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the students who participated in these important international studies, but can not fail to point out the problems that these international studies have also revealed, in which they promote the culture of retention in our educational system and a certain curriculum establishment, and to appeal to the development of public policies that overcome them. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u95	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u96	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u97	Mr President, it is to announce that, in relation to the last two votes, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u98	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Then I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of vote No 169 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for 40. the anniversary of the first municipal elections ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u99	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "After the conquest of the freedom and promulgation of the Constitution, our national democratic life has known a new milestone with the holding of the first autonomous elections. On December 12, 1976, for the first time, the Portuguese elected their representatives in the municipal chamber, in the municipal assembly, in the board and in the parish assembly. on this day we started a long journey of evolution and consolidation of the autonomy of the local power that does not find parallel in our history. We do not forget, and we remember what the Portuguese territory was like before the first authentic mandates. Things that today seem as simple to us as access to education, culture and health, good road infrastructure and environmental, sports, social and youth equipment, are very fruit of the work of the autarchs and their struggle to give all Portuguese, of all lands, a life worthy of the democratic fullness that we then sought to achieve. over these 40 years, local power has played a key role in defending citizens and their expectations, defending territorial cohesion, urban renewal, social protection of the most disadvantaged and investment promotion. in these 40 years, the authorities have seen their area of extended influence and whenever they were called answered efficiently and with results. The reality of local power has evolved greatly in these four decades. at present, we are faced with new challenges. After all, local power is and will always be an unfinished mission. The passage from 40. the anniversary of the first autarchic elections is an opportunity, one more, to thank and greet all those who said yes to their territories, who said yes to their populations. It is time to renew our confidence in our authorships and its fundamental role in a truly representative, healthy democratic life that respects regional identities, decentralized, agile and close to people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to vote No 173 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for the 40th anniversary of the first municipal elections ( PCP and 1 PS member ). To proceed with the reading of the vote, you have the floor of Mrs. Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « We commemorate the 40 years of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic which consecrated the democratic local power and celebrated the 40 years of the first democratic elections for local authorities, held on 12 December 1976. The democratic local power is one of the most significant democratic transformations carried out on 25 April. An integral part of the democratic regime and its power system is largely involved, plural, collegial, democratic and with administrative and financial autonomy. It was with the democratic local power, its electors, the people and their organizations that it was possible to advance and develop the municipalities and the parish, contributing decisively to local development. In many territories everything was to be done. There were no basic infrastructures, public services, accessibility, equipment, green spaces. The process, moreover, which began immediately after 25 April, with the creation of the administrative commissions of the municipalities and the parish, in an intense and fruitful work carried out with a broad popular participation. The democratic local power has declared itself, operating profound transformations in the economic, social and cultural dimension, with the fundamental intervention in improving the living conditions of the people and overcoming enormous deficiencies, including in solving problems that largely exceed their competences. over these 40 years the local power has not had an easy life, the questioning and limitation to its autonomy and the essential elements that characterize it was a reality, regionalization is still to be realized despite being enshrined in the Constitution, consecutive changes to the legal and financial regime of the local authorities created difficulties and lately the contested process of extinction and fusion of freguesias amputated its dimension. Commemorations of the 40 years of the first authentic elections should be a time to affirm the importance and role of democratic local power and what represents as a space of affirmation and realization of popular rights and aspirations. A moment of convergence and unity of democrats, in defence of the democratic local power and the values of April, enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the holding of the first autonomous elections, the democratic local power, the electors, the peoples and their organizations, responsible for economic, social and cultural transformations over the past 40 years, and believes that the authorities should be given the means, in respect of their autonomy, to respond to the needs and aspirations of the people and local development. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to vote No 175 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for 40. the anniversary of local democratic power ( BE and 1 PS ). I ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 12 December 1976, the first free and democratic elections were held for local authorities after 50 years of interruption. The autonomy of the local power was widely recognized by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 2 April 1976, setting it up as a structural element of the Portuguese constitutional order. Since then, local power has been an important vehicle for development and democratisation, often with innovative solutions adopted later by the central power itself, as is the case with the participatory budget. The democratic local power is one of the most relevant democratic transformations that emerged with the April Revolution. It is widely involved, plural, collegial, democratic and has administrative and financial autonomy. The democratic local power has declared itself over four decades, operating profound social transformations, improving the living conditions of the populations and solving serious deficiencies. in celebrating the democratic local power it is time to promote the participation of citizens and citizens in the decisions by the various mechanisms of deliberative democracy and participatory democracy. The actual elections, the first date of which is mentioned in the 1976 Constitution today, represent the greatest political participation of the population, either by the highest number of participants as candidates, or by the lowest rates of abstention. They also represent the greatest participation in the extension of active and passive electoral capacity to thousands of foreign citizens who are thus part of the country and its local communities. Commemorations of 40. the anniversary of the first municipal elections should be a time to affirm the relevance and role of the democratic local power and what it means for the satisfaction of the aspirations and rights of the people. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the democratic local power in its 40. the anniversary. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u104	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We then proceed to vote No 171 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — From protest for obstruction to the free exercise of the work of Portuguese journalists in Cuba ( PSD ). You have the floor to read the vote, Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "in the recent funeral ceremonies of Fidel Castro three Portuguese journalists who covered them for the Express and for the SIC were intersected and questioned by the Cuban authorities and thus subject to increased difficulties in carrying out their work. These episodes, arbitrary and surgical, apparently served to intimidate these journalists, and not even the presence of the international press prevented their consumption. According to the newspaper Expresso, «the Cuban regime has reinvigorated the machine of surveillance and oppression, not forgiving anyone who wanted to come into contact with the opponents of the regime, in an attempt to tell the other side of the story». The newspaper still reports that this procedure was not an isolated act, since already on November 29 the editor of the 14ymedio digital newspaper, Reinaldo Escobar, and another TVE journalist, had been arrested during a street interview. The Cuban regime thus proves that it has not assimilated democratic practices that respect freedom of information and expression, with which we cannot deal. Thus, the members of the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, decided to present their protest vote for this anti-democratic practice against the free exercise of the performance of Portuguese journalists of the Express and SIC during the homage ceremonies to Fidel Castro, calling for a real and effective change of the Cuban regime in order to draw ever closer to the values of respect for human rights and democracy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u107	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u108	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u109	Mr President, it is to inform us that on the vote of the last vote we will present a statement of vote on behalf of our Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u110	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr António Filipe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u111	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u112	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u113	Mr President, it is also to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote on the vote No 171 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u114	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 172 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the terrorist attack on the Coptic Christian community in Cairo ( CDS-PP and PS and PS). You have the floor to read the vote, Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last December 11, Egypt again witnessed the horror and barbarity of terrorism. this time, the attack was surgically perpetrated within the Church of São Pedro and São Paulo, next to the Coptic Cathedral of São Marcos, fatally victimizing 25 Christians and wounding more than 40 others, including women and children. The attack, claimed by Daesh, was the most violent of recent years against that Christian minority, which accounts for about 10% of the 80 million Egyptians. Coptic Christians have repeatedly been target of sectarian slaughter by various radical groups. This incident is part of a worrying curve of persecutions, increasingly frequent, against Christians in the Middle East, which cannot fail to be denounced and condemned vehemently. The persecution of Christians, inspired by hatred and intolerance, is not unprecedented. Year after year, there are several Christian minorities who continue to suffer the atrocities of the various fundamentalist and radical movements, of jihadist inspiration, especially Daesh, causing feelings of fear and insecurity and establishing a suffocating climate of terror in these communities. Once again, the Assembly of the Republic does not compromise in silencing and denounces crimes and persecutions for religious reasons, particularly against Christian minorities in the Middle East, and in this sense: 1 — Strongly condemns the attack on Coptic Christians last day 11 of this month; 2 — Expresses its deep regret over the loss of human lives in the hands of radicalism and jihadist fundamentalism, presenting their condolences to the families of the victims and their neighbors; 3 — Express your concern at the degrading decline in religious pluralism and persecution committed every day against Christians in the Middle East. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote: No 176 / XIII ( 2 ) ( a ) — Repudiation of bombings and crimes against populations in the city of Aleppo, Syria ( BE and Members of the PSD and PS ). I ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Syrian city of Aleppo has been the stage of the worst crimes against dignity and human rights. The isolation of the eastern part of the city does not allow an assessment of the destruction in its entirety and prevents the necessary aid from the populations. The victims of the bombings include summary executions, reported torture situations, rapes of women and attacks that prevent access to humanitarian aid and destroy schools and hospitals. Travels carried out without supervision of international institutions cause fear of the worst. The extension of the situation in Aleppo is simply unacceptable in the light of international law and respect for human rights. The exact number of deaths caused by the war is uncertain. But it is true that, between the announcements of cease-fire and the resumption of bombings, this number increases from day to day. The United Nations has long interrupted the official registration of the victims. But the United Nations Special Envoy himself, Staff of Mixture, assumed this year that the number of deaths in Syrian territory could be more than 400 000. Most of the victims are civilians, more than 16 000 will be children, most of them will have died in the rough town of Aleppo. Others, able to escape the horror of war and survive the uncertainty of borders, find in refugee camps a wall that is no more than the expression of the European indifference that represents the bankruptcy of their institutions. in this prolonged « proxy war », the international powers, from the United States to Russia and Turkey, were unable to reach an understanding that would put an end to the conflict and allow open to a long and necessary work to rebuild peace in the region. Of course, in Aleppo as well as in the region, too many lives have been lost so that, in the complexity of the alignments of the parties involved, crimes are not investigated and the responsibilities established. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, repudiates the bombing of the city of Aleppo, condemning the violation of human rights and crimes against the people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u119	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u120	Mrs. Carla Cruz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u121	Mr President, it is to inform that we shall immediately submit a vote statement on the vote on vote No 176 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u122	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now, in general, vote on Bill No 40 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the infrastructure and equipment programming law for the security forces and services of the Ministry of Internal Administration. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, since there is no opposition, we shall jointly vote on three requests submitted by the PS and with the agreement of the Government, BE and the CFP, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security for a period of 30 days, without a vote, of Bill No 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Co-operative Code, and of the projects of lein.o 75 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Excludes the existence of investor members and ensuring the democratity of the functioning of cooperatives by the first amendment of the Cooperative Code, approved by Law No 119 / 2015 of 31 August 2015 and ensuring compliance with Article 82. paragraph 4 ( a ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ( BE ), and 356 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Co-operative Code, ensuring effective respect for the cooperative principles of the International Cooperative Alliance ( CFP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the bill and bills are down to 10. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 35 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 15/93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, adding several substances to Table II - A. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on a request by BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PS and the Greens for a 30-day discharge from draft resolutions Nos 501 / XIII ( 2 ) for a 30-day period. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a recruitment group for Portuguese gestual teachers ( BE ), 504 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese gestual language be included in the range of existing curriculum enrichment activities ( BE ), 505 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of teaching Portuguese gestual language to students and students in reference schools for the bilingual education of deaf students ( BE), 561 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by valuing the Portuguese gestual language ( PCP ), 564 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for a higher quality school for deaf students ( CDS-PP ), 567 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Development and promotion of the Portuguese Gestive Language ( PS ) and 569 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Guarantee of an inclusive school through the promotion of the Portuguese gestual language ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 523 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government enhance the use of all available mechanisms for water level control and acts to speed up the de-absorption of Aveiro River ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 466 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Dessorption of the Aveiro River ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 553 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by disabsorption of the Aveiro River and by the development of synergies with local structures, particularly with the port of Aveiro ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 568 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent need to disintegrate the Aveiro River ( The Greens). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 562 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Dissorption and regulation of flows from the Aveiro River ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u123	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u124	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u125	Mr President, it is to inform that with regard to these draft resolutions on the disabsorption of the Aveiro River, the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u126	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 549 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Increase in national minimum wage ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 566 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a serious dialogue with the social partners to achieve a medium-term social partnership agreement on growth, competitiveness and employment including the updating of the national minimum wage ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] For draft resolution No 519 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Regularization of false green receipts and other precarious arrangements existing at the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ( BE ), the initial text of which was replaced at the request of the author. Let us first vote on points 1 and 4 as requested by the PSD and the CDS-PP. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on points 2 and 3 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 496 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop all diplomatic efforts to ensure the end of pollution and decontamination of soils and aquifers contaminated with hydrocarbon spills at the Air Base of Lajes ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 30 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System adopted by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August 2013. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 149 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation of parental responsibilities by mutual agreement with the conservatories of the civil registry in the event of dissolution of de facto unions and similar cases ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 315 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Total and permanent conversion of reductions in public grants for the financing of political parties and for election campaigns and to the ceilings for election campaign expenditure ( PSD ), 331 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Act No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), establishing definitive reductions in public grants for the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns and at the ceilings of election campaign expenditure ( CDS-PP ) and 336 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduce public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u127	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u128	Mr Ascenso Simões, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u129	Mr President, it is to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on the last vote that took place.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-16.u130	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, also in relation to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the projects of lein. 315 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ), 331 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 336 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), with the agreement of all parliamentary banks, we shall vote for a request submitted by the PSD, requesting the final drafting waiver of the said final text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also have a request submitted by the PS requesting the waiver of the time limit for claims against inaccuracies provided for in Article 157 ( 1 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, of the proposals of lein. 36 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2017 and 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 9 to 18 of the Journal on plenary meetings held on 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 26 and 27 October 2016. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on 21 December, Wednesday, from 15 a.m. on the following agenda: from the first item there is a marking of the Greens, subject to the theme « Food waste ». of the second point is the assessment of petition No 109 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators, asking the Assembly of the Republic for a schedule of pre-school education equal to that of the remaining cycles of basic education. the third point shows the assessment of petition No 94 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Submitted by the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal, requesting that, within the framework of the commemorations of World Health Day 2016, the Assembly of the Republic recommends to the Government the integration of the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal into the National Health Service, as provided for in the current legislation ( Decree-Law No 138 / 2013 of 9 October ). The fourth point 4 shows the assessment of petition No 58 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Teresa Mafalda de Aguiar Frazão and Gonçalves de Campos, and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic appropriate legislation to prevent trade in animals in classified ads of pages on the Internet. the fifth point shows the assessment of petition No 83 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by the Portuguese Association of Numerous Families ( APFN ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to establish the Brother's Day on 31 May. Finally, at the sixth point, we will appreciate petition No 306 / XII ( 3 ). a ) — Submitted by Ana Clara Zaluar Nunes Basilio and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic that the Centro de Rehabilitation de Paralisia Cerebral Calouste Gulbenkian remain in the equipment network of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the hope of a good weekend, I should like to finish the session. [[It was 12 hours and 46 minutes.]]
