ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. the first item on our agenda is a thematic debate under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, required by the Government, on climate change, in conjunction with motion for a resolution No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015 and draft resolution No 477 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — A policy to defend nature at the service of the people and the country ( PCP ). You have the floor, for an opening intervention and for presenting motion for a resolution No 18/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a) Mr Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues of government: We are here today, in an act of enormous responsibility, to ratify the Paris Agreement, and thus continue the path of global combat on climate change, which is one of the main challenges facing the planet in this century. On 18 December, a few days after the takeover of this Government, I said in this plenary that one day the ratification of the Paris Agreement would be formally present to this House. It is with great honour, but above all with a great sense of responsibility, that I shall make it, after its signature on 22 April, and the decision of the Government to submit its approval to this House on 21 July. I am grateful for the speedy schedule of this ratification by the Assembly of the Republic, proof of the importance this House attaches to this subject. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the scientific evidence concerning the influence of human activity on the climate system is stronger than ever and global warming is unequivocal. This is one of the main conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in its latest assessment report, indicating that the maintenance of current greenhouse gas emission levels will lead to an increase in temperature and will make the existence of irreversible impacts more likely for populations and ecosystems. The forest fires this summer and the full winter in our country are examples of impacts of extreme climate events, exacerbated by climate change that has occurred a little around the world. These events demonstrate the significant vulnerability and exposure to the change of some ecosystems and many human systems. The response to the challenge of climate change is therefore universal. We are all called individually and collectively to pursue the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Two decades since the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol, the international community finally succeeded in approving the first truly global commitment to reducing emissions and adapting to the impacts of the changing climate — the Paris Agreement. Paris is a window of hope in this battle without hindrance. This is a truly ambitious, dynamic, durable, comprehensive and universal agreement. With this Agreement, the international community aims to decarbonise world economies by making a commitment to limit the global average temperature to levels below 2 Celsius, in relation to the pre-industrial period, and to continue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1, 5 °C, recognizing that this will significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change. The Paris Agreement thus represents an opportunity for the development and transformation of economies and for the creation of new jobs. It conveys a powerful message to the markets regarding the need to direct investments for the transition of world economies to efficient economies in the use of resources and low carbon. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is particularly nice that, as the Minister of the Environment, I note that, historically, the fight against climate change has deserved national and party consensus. It is my duty at this time to greet the rulers who have been leading this cause for more than two decades. In fact, since 1992 at the Earth Summit, passing through Kyoto, Copenhagen and last year Paris, Portugal has always been committed to fulfilling its national and European obligations. It did so by taking advantage of a historic opportunity to reduce its external dependence on fossil fuels by means of internationally recognized bet on renewable energies. Portugal has largely fulfilled its obligations under the first Kyoto commitment period as well as commitments to reduce emissions made at European level under the climate energy package by 2020. Portugal is fully committed to the profound decarbonisation of its economy, in a framework of economic recovery and job creation. And here, I see with ease that natural gas is seen as the source of transition energy in the collective transport sector. The objectives of this Government are fully aligned with the vision and objectives of European climate policy and the Paris Agreement. Let me highlight some of the things that we have already done and that we will do in the near future: we have advanced in the policy and measures system; we have adopted the national air quality strategy; we have created the environmental fund; we have prioritized sustainable urban mobility, having planned, for example, in the National Reform Programme, the expansion of the metro networks in Lisbon and Porto; we will encourage the renewal of 500 gas or electric buses, and the competitive warning for its acquisition, supported by the Operational Sustainability and Efficiency Programme in the Use of Resources ( PO SEUR), with EUR 60 million, will become public during the same October ; the first corridor for the electric mobility linking Lisbon to Algarve is in operation ; we will run the Eco.mob ( Sustainable Mobility Programme for Public Administration 2015 - 2020 ), funding 1200 electric vehicles for the Public Administration until 2018. Our policy is not just about mitigating climate change. The relevance of the implementation of measures to prevent, protect and adapt territories is transversal to all sectors of the economy. This is no longer a battle of the future, it is a battle of our present. For this reason, we launched a notice worth EUR 34 million for the prevention and management of full risks, presented a new more operational model to manage the coast and put forward the promotion of knowledge and the intensification of systematic monitoring.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u3	Mr Minister, you have already exceeded your time, but you can continue as long as the excessive time is cut off in the second round of the debate period.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u4	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u5	That will be the case, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u6	therefore, taking into account not only the provisions of the Paris Agreement but also the guidelines of national and European climate change policy, I believe that Portugal is fully prepared to carry out the national ratification of the Paris Agreement and to be consistent with it, fulfilling its objectives and objectives. Given the level of commitment reached in Paris and the need to strengthen this same political commitment now, I am convinced that together, both in the European Union and in the United Nations, we will be able to overcome the challenges of climate change by increasing our efforts by promoting competitive and low-carbon economies as part of an effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u7	In order to initiate the debate itself, which consists of two rounds, Mr Jorge Moreira da Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: This is the most important of all debates. The climate is changing and will change even more in the coming years as a result of the mistakes of our model of development based on the economy of fire. Let us have no doubt, one day we will be judged by the next generations and we will have to answer the key question of future ethics: with the information that we have done what was necessary to prevent the disaster or, for comfort, did we commit, compromise and hesitate? This is the time of leadership and this generation must be up to their responsibilities. in more than 20 years I have been dedicated to the area of climate change and sustainable development, I have discovered myself, through this outside world, with ignorance, cynicism and selfishness in the way of dealing with the theme of climate change. Many, ignoring science, despite evidence; others, confident that technology in its time would all solve; many thinking more about the next election than in the next generation; others suffering, here and in other countries, still a greater baggage — climate hypocrisy. They take oaths of faith in the defence of the environment and in the fight against climate change, but in practice they do not want renewable energy, because they are expensive, they do not want green taxation, because it is unpopular, they do not want to promote electric mobility, because it is bourgeois, they do not accept the European emissions trading system, a powerful mechanism covering 50 % of European emissions, because it is based on the social market model. in these 20 years, we've come from everything, but today everything will have to change. It is about changing mentalities, and not just technology, that depends on our ability to overcome this challenge. Today, responsibilities are even greater and no pretext or prejudice is justifiable. There is no longer any dispute on the scientific basis of climate change, there is no dispute about the consequences and costs of inaction, there is no doubt about the economic and employment benefits associated with decarbonisation, green growth and the true energy revolution in progress today, we all have all the information we need to act on. The fight against climate change is urgent, but this fight is totally within our reach and will be economically advantageous. Twenty years after Kyoto, I have a huge hope, the times of ignorance and skepticism are already gone. We're together! It is in this context that it is worth stressing the historic importance of the Paris Agreement, which we will ratify today. This is a comprehensive, inclusive and ambitious agreement, and it is true that it is not as detailed as we would like and as ambitious as we would need, since the targets set are insufficient to achieve the objective of 1, 5o, compared to the pre-industrial period. The Paris Agreement is nevertheless sufficiently comprehensive, robust and strategic so that it can be given greater ambition in the next rounds of negotiations and in the scheduled periodic evaluations of five years. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now is the time to take the Paris Agreement into practice and make choices. Build upon what we have already done and do not fall into the bat of, for mere revenge and resentment, reverse or destroy. The legacy of the former Government is known, known to us and those who observe us from outside and who are our partners. The results are eloquent and only ideological blindness is not visible: in the strengthening of renewable energies, which increased from 45 % to 62 % in just four years; in the cutting of EUR 4000 million in excessive incomes; in the dynamisation of self-consumption of energy; in the reduction of energy dependence to the lowest value of the last 20 years; in the incentives for electricity mobility and for carbon taxation; in the historical agreement for strengthening interconnections; in the strengthening of green investment, reaching EUR 5000 million by 2020. We have approved ambitious targets for 2030 in renewable energy, CO2 and energy efficiency. So it is worth asking: what have the current government and the left-wing coalition done to implement the agreement that has already been approved a year ago? Nothing! Even worse: they took us back. The reversals in the area of urban rent and water and also in the area of climate and energy were no longer enough, where there has been a surprising retreat. This is evident in the deliberate inaction in the process of implementing energy interconnections between Portugal, Spain and France, which would allow us to export renewable electricity to Europe. This is evident in the abandonment of the Green Growth Commitment, now replaced by a round discussion on the circular economy. This is evident in the postponement of some dams, which endangers the achievement of renewable energy targets by 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u9	Mr. Deputies, it's been too long. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. This is evident in the reversal of incentives to electricity mobility adopted in the reform of green taxation. This is evident in the enlargement announced yesterday by the Left Block, from the energy contribution to renewables, blocking the planned investment. Also here, following the usual mechanics of management, the Left Block commands, the Portuguese Communist Party shuts up and the Socialist Party obeys. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: The reversals have a price.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u11	Mr President, I would like to inform you that from now on time begins to cut off the time allocated to the debate. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u12	When we left the government, Portugal was tripleA in the green area, he was a world leader in green growth. Today, Portugal has moved from ambitious leader to a desert.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u13	It was because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u14	I am deeply sorry that it is. I hope, Mr. Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. The Paris Agreement is only valid for what we are able to do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u15	Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Climate change is at the top of the political agenda, but political decision makers are not enough to proclaim good intentions, they are required more. More than ever, they are required a concrete translation of the « global thinking and local action». We are aware that no country alone can solve the fight against climate change alone and much less one government. This must be a continuous fight of all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was at the Rio Conference in 1992 with Agenda 21, which for the first time put the need for policies to put the climate as an environmental priority and to set a set of principles more appropriate to ecological balance. But it was in Kyoto in 1997 that not only principles were established to combat climate change but also targets for reducing the emission of pollutants that intensify the greenhouse effect, with emphasis on CO2, and the need to promote changes in the energy matrix then in force. in this 24-year course, since the ECO-92, going through the Berlin Conference and Kyoto Protocol in 1997, no results were obtained to date able to reverse the cycle of increased greenhouse gas emissions and consequently changes in climate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The planetary watch is becoming implacable in its march and the signs of it become increasingly impossible to ignore. The cycles of drought, heat and cold waves, floods and storms are much shorter, and the escalation of negative impacts on health and economic development shows that we do not have much more successful opportunities. from there the historical importance of COP-21 ( 21. the Conference of the Parties ), in Paris, which took a step forward in the goals to be achieved, making them binding, and with greater attention to developing countries, with the flexibility of their targets and ensuring the necessary financial support for the implementation of greenhouse gas emission mitigation policies. But Paris was also very important for affirming the principle of everyone's responsibility and public awareness, to ensure the integrity of ecosystems and thus improving the environment. The Paris Agreement is still important because it does not overlook the fact that the implementation of the policy to combat changes will respect the right to health and food security and people with greater vulnerability. But the greater importance is, above all, in the commitment to strengthen the fight against climate change, imposing limits on the increase of global temperature to 1, 5th in relation to pre-industrial levels. Many will say that it is insufficient, but it was a giant step by imposing the bet on renewable energy and energy efficiency, on electric mobility, on its sustainability and still on the development of clean technologies. Portugal has been on the front line in the fight against climate change. Since the 1992 Rio Conference, all governments have been engaged in a sustainable development policy, that is to say, seeking to meet the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generations to achieve satisfactory levels of social, economic and cultural development and, above all, the right to quality of life. Portugal has taken a major step in reducing industrial pollution, promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency, reducing dependence on energy imports and reducing carbon intensity in our economy. The Portuguese Government is strongly committed to the profound decarbonisation of its economy. Portugal has been internationally recognized as a country that has been on a good path, achieving very reasonable goals in the field of policies that compete to combat climate change. In Paris, the Portuguese Government had a very active participation. The PS and the Government are committed to pursuing this path, setting policy priorities to be implemented, making options for the decarbonisation of the economy and setting priorities such as for example in renewable energy and electricity mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u17	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u18	I'm done now, Mr. President. Portugal will set a good example by ratifying the Paris Agreement here and being the fifth country of the European Union to do so. It was good for the other 23 countries to follow the example of Portugal so that the Agreement could enter into force as soon as possible. I would like to point out here, Mr President, that unlike the Kyoto Protocol, China and the United States have already ratified the Paris Agreement, which sets out the great importance of COP-21. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, both this intervention and the previous intervention have exceeded the regiment times by about one minute, so I will give the same tolerance in the next speeches, so that there is no time in the second round. Mr Jorge Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The impact of the current form of industrial production and services on a planet totally dominated by the accumulation of capital has become a danger to mankind. The risk of an increase from 4th to 5th in the average temperature over the 21st century would correspond to an impact not recorded in tens of millions of years. This risk is not being corrected by the measures adopted so far at international level that only mitigate the effects, without stopping the causes, of climate change. These changes can therefore cause or accentuate conflicts around water ownership, essential resources, migration, location of populations and new wars. There is the concrete risk of the Paris Agreement becoming a new Kyoto Protocol: useless in its application, slow in its entry into force and subject only to the creation of a new business and speculation market, such as carbon dioxide emissions. For this not to happen, there are some basic issues that will have to occur at the next summit in Marrakesh. in COP-22 national proposals prior to the Paris Agreement must be transformed into national climate action plans. In order for these national climate action plans to be monitored and reformulated for increasing emission reductions, greenhouse gas emissions in each country will have to be verified, which cannot be done with voluntary registers of national and private companies and industries but, rather, with a universal system, with a common methodology. Finally, sectors excluded from the Paris Agreement, including aviation and maritime transport, will have to be included and their emissions also monitored and reduced on a national or sectoral basis. These are just a few basic assumptions for achieving an agreement as insufficient as Paris did, the sum of which of the national emission proposals would lead to a temperature rise between 2, 5, 3, 5. However, there will be a lack of ratification of the agreement for international law and for this there is the rule of 55 / 55, that is, for an agreement to enter into force, 55 parties have to ratify it and must be represented at least 55 % of greenhouse gas emissions at global level. The host country of COP-22, Morocco, has not yet ratified the agreement. It is expected, however, that in the next two months this rule will be complied with and that COP-22 may serve to speak of an agreement which, unlike Kyoto, does not last more than seven years to enter into force. Combating climate change will entail a profound change in the production model, in the consumption model, in the energy model. in these changes, the Left Block has a direction, a compass, which is the transition to renewable energies. It is not a government that has licensed the exploitation of fossil fuels in the way the previous government has licensed it in this Parliament to teach someone about decarbonization and transition to a new energy model. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u21	But surely the compromise that the left has, and that the Left Block has, as an ecosocialist force, a transition to renewable energies is to affirm once again. In this context, as part of its commitment to renewable energy, the Left Block has proposed the extension to renewable energy producers in Portugal of the special contribution to the fight against tariff deficit. This is because if it is not with energy consumers, if it is not with people, if it is not with those who have been paying increases of 3% per year in energy bill, if it is not with the most disadvantaged, with those who have less claiming power in society, unlike the lobby we hear today speaking through the voice of the PSD, through criticism of the extension of the extraordinary contribution, if not with those who have paid the bill, the transition to the renewables failure due to lack of social support. in the consensus for the transition to renewables it is necessary not to repeat, in the renewable sector, the errors of excessive incomes given in conventional energy production. So the criticism that the Left Block makes to the exemption that remains so far from the renewables sector for the contribution to the reduction of the tariff deficit we maintain and is part of our contribution to a transition policy for renewables. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u22	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u23	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We all know and are all aware of the urgency of the global implementation of measures to combat climate change. The Paris Agreement is undoubtedly a historic landmark since the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was adopted in 1992. for the first time, a set of 195 countries committed themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in order to achieve zero emissions or, at least, a zero balance sheet, with the ultimate objective of ensuring that the increase in temperature is far below 2 Celsius, in relation to the pre-industrial era, and to try to limit the rise to 1, 5°. This agreement constitutes a significant progress towards the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which was the only legally binding treaty until this Paris Conference, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, covering only a few developed countries whose commitments were in place by the end of 2020. Thus, and even if we can consider that this agreement reached presents some weaknesses, we have no doubt that it is urgent for our country to adopt it. in recent years, Portugal has been internationally recognized in the leadership of green growth and in the fight against climate change, and has also led the process of discussing the new European climate-energy package for 2030, with the formulation of the Portuguese proposal of four ambitious goals, at four levels, which the previous government, the PSD / CDS, defended for Europe and assumed for Portugal. These four targets have resulted in our commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 %, to increase renewable energy by 40 %, to increase energy efficiency by 30 % and to strengthen energy interconnections by 25 %, which will allow Portugal to assert itself as a renewable energy exporter for Europe. The set of reforms undertaken in Portugal in recent years in this area has allowed greater predictability and stability in the regulatory system, which, for its part, has made it possible to attract important external investment in the area of renewable energy. It is necessary and urgent to continue this course and make a clear commitment to climate change adaptation measures, as well as a competitive, economic, social, environmental and job promotion opportunity for the country. The Paris Agreement requires ratification of at least 55 % of greenhouse gas emissions. Currently, 61 countries, representing 48 % of emissions, have already done so, including the two largest issuers, China, which accounts for 20 % of total emissions, and the United States of America, 18 % of which is still expected to be ratified by India, which accounts for 4, 1 % of emissions. Portugal accounts for around 0, 12 % of world emissions, with 65 million tonnes per year, but is integrated into the European Union which accounts for about 12 % of total emissions. So, and in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS will, of course, approve this Paris Agreement and, as always, we will be careful and vigilant to ensure that this compromise is tracked and implemented, in particular in the next State budget. Mr Minister, our concern is great because in 10 months of government nothing has been done in the sense indicated by the Paris Convention and therefore we look forward to the State Budget for 2017, which will be presented in this Assembly of the Republic by 15 days, and all that it will bring to us on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u24	Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two initiatives addressing the conclusions of COP-21, held in Paris, on climate change are discussed today in the Assembly of the Republic. This is a subject that should call on all of us to think more deeply about the state of the planet and the consequences of an immediate non-reversion of the strategies that have been used, with regard to combating greenhouse gas emissions. With regard to the reduction of these gases, there is nothing concrete in the final text of the Paris Agreement, which opens the way for flexibility that can endanger the ambitious goal of less than 2° Celsius. It stresses the path of environmental marketing, particularly through the maintenance of the carbon market, which has proved ineffective in reducing emissions. The sale of CO2 production licences only enables the most polluting countries, coincidentally the richest and most developed, to deresponsibility for their own pollution by buying the right to pollute. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u26	The European trading scheme was also unable to lead to the reduction of greenhouse gases, contradicting the goodness of market regulation, ratifying only the gains, the accumulation of wealth and the deepening of inequalities. The concept of emissions neutrality, put on CO2 sinks (forests and other methods), risks being a mechanism that does not combat greenhouse gas emissions by terminating the potential to destroy the native forest of developing countries by the action of large multinationals. In short, the largest producers of greenhouse gases, the most developed countries, are free from solving environmental problems, passing the burden of combating greenhouse gases to individual citizens, and buying their « deresponsibility ». This path is not a solution. The CFP considers that emissions contributing to the greenhouse effect are a serious problem and proposes, in today's debate, the defence of local production, reducing the extent of production and consumption cycles, contrary to the liberalisation of world trade. It defends the strengthening of state resources in order to put natural wealth to the service of the country and the people, as well as the strengthening of measures that increase energy efficiency in the public domain. Investment in collective transport and a fair distribution of efforts to limit the production of gas, through a specific regulation without the use of instruments such as licensing, are part of the CFP's recommendation for a policy of nature in defence of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u28	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Mrs and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: When we reached the climate agreement in COP-21 last December, which was now known by the Paris Agreement, the Greens felt it was good to reach that agreement but we were not very excited about the outcome of the agreement. I think we should read this agreement with some caution because, on the one hand, the positive aspect of the Agreement is that there has been a worldwide perception and commitment, particularly from the largest greenhouse gas emitters—and the largest of them per capita are the United States of America, which had been outside the Kyoto Protocol—that climate change is, in fact, something to take seriously and that everyone's commitment to combat is needed, or at least to minimize this phenomenon, on the other hand, what the Agreement establishes is, in our view, very fragile. It is fragile because the targets are not binding; it is fragile because the conditions for meeting these targets are not established, even non-binding, nor is it guaranteed a continuation of social and environmental justice through this fight against climate change; it is fragile because it is established or we will continue to watch the implementation of a carbon market, which is a negotiation that does not guarantee, in fact, as already proved, the effective reduction of greenhouse gases. Therefore, in our perspective, there are weaknesses that do not leave us to rest on this matter, mainly when the scientific community, at the global level, assures us that climate change is a phenomenon that is already being implemented on the planet and that, if no appropriate action is taken, there will be a significant rise in the level of the seas and an intensification of the climate extremes, mainly reaching the most vulnerable areas of the planet, which means that the poorest will be more affected and that we may have a very significant number of refugee vacancies due to serious environmental problems. So the world has to wake up for this, but it has to wake up in a more determined way, in our perspective. Does this mean that the Greens consider it not important to ratify the Paris Agreement? Not at all! We believe that Portugal should make its contribution at the level of the European Union, which will then, in its entirety, promote ratification of the Agreement. It is important that we be part of a frontal platoon in ratifying this Agreement. in our perspective, this is important, but we must bear in mind that these weaknesses cannot be forgotten. in the second intervention, because I have reached the limit of the time it had to intervene, I would like to talk more about the steps that Portugal can take and is making in order to contribute to the fight against climate change. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u29	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On April 22, 1970, the first Day of Earth was celebrated and, over 40 years ago, we are still ratifying agreements. From year to year, from decade to decade, Western post-illuminism culture offered nothing more than a map of how to live in an extractive and non-reciprocal relationship with nature. This cultural narrative, destructive and illusory of infinite growth is fervorously promoted by the overwhelming majority of parties on the left and right, both in Portugal and in the world. Although it is of paramount importance that we ratify the Paris Agreement, we fear that it will not go through a mere bureaucratic act, because this Agreement does not define clear commitments, nor does it guarantee a secure future for the climate. In addition, we continue to ignore one of the most environmentally friendly areas in this document and as a civilization, agriculture, responsible for 51% of greenhouse gas emissions. In Portugal, these scientific facts stand in the way of the current political ideology, which subjects nature and the common good to the always « higher economic interests ». If, on the one hand, the governments that have led the country in recent decades have painted the green economy, which has been promoted in reality is ecocidal by destroying our ecological assets with the unnecessary National Barrage Plan, gas and oil expansion, maintaining the bet on an agrotoxic agriculture, subsidizing intensive agriculture, accelerating aquaculture and, as aggravating, transnational agreements, such as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership and the CETA (Intelligent Economic and Trade Agreement), ironic and falsely promoted as decisive in combating climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u31	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. Thus, we see that the necessary climate revolution does not coincide with the present extractive system but, yes, with a new cultural narrative and economic practice that addresses this civilizational challenge as a unique and very short opportunity to save not the planet but our species.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u33	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u34	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the speeches made. Although no concrete question has been asked for me to answer, using a sentence given by Mr André Silva, I mean that, indeed, growth cannot be infinite, but, if it is infinite, it must certainly be circular. It must certainly be circular. We live by credit, as far as resources are concerned. In fact, we owe the planet a debt, which is growing every year. Last August 8 was the Global Overshot Day, that is, the day when we spent on resources that are from 2017. Since the 1970s this day has been returning to the calendar and, therefore, we have to make a big change in how we use our resources. If the Paris targets are insufficient, it is a fact that Paris does not run out on December 12. In fact, Paris has a commitment to be reviewed every five years by the end of this century and, with new technologies, with more ambition, with other ways of doing and other ways of accessing energy, I firmly believe that if we all commit ourselves otherwise, we will not succeed today but at the end of the century to achieve our goals. Mr Jorge Costa, I would say that there is no longer any comparison between the accession of peoples and countries to the Paris Agreement compared with any other. No one defined a maximum time limit for the agreement to be ratified, but when the Paris summit was concluded it was common to speak in four years. It is now within our reach and I hope that Portugal will make some contribution today — certainly it will do so — so that only in one year will the Agreement come into operation. There have been more than 190 countries to approve, but with everyone's conscience, approving is nothing more than putting an arm in the air. However, more than 160 countries signed it in April and 61 have already ratified it. And in a sense, from the point of view of ratification, my concern is very close to ourselves, it is even within the European Union, where four countries have already ratified it — in fact, I can say it in another way: only four countries have ratified it — and Portugal will be the fifth. That is a great concern, even because I am not going to disagree with the European Union's model of joint ratification. I have chosen very much to be here today, and I have never thought of doing anything else, but, exactly today, in Brussels, in an extraordinary Council of Ministers for the Environment, the possibility of the European Union perhaps not waiting for the ratification of each Member State to speed up the process is being discussed. Now, a little correction: for the information I have, Morocco has already ratified the Agreement and will have it done on 21 November. It is even important that this focus on the circular economy and the commitment to green growth would indeed be — since this was the image referred to in another case — a round discussion. It was certainly a very generous initiative, I have already said, to which it was very important to give a useful sense. One hundred and eleven or one hundred and twelve objectives are not many, nor are few, in the context of our Administration, within the limit, ingestible and therefore it is so important to be able to give this useful meaning with the bet on the circular economy. More than half of greenhouse gas emissions are associated with materials management. The OECD points to a number between 54 % and 64 %. If efficient circular economy strategies were to be created all over the world we would be able to reduce up to 7 billion tons of CO2 per year. Repeat: 7, 5 billion! What is the goal, for the whole world, to meet the most demanding goal of Paris, which is 1, 5 C? It is to reduce 30 billion CO2 per year. We are talking about a lot, very, very significant, and there are very useful environmental reversals. One of them has to do with, unequivocally — and I cannot understand how there can be doubt — with the reversal of the concessions for transport in Lisbon and Porto, for which the National Climate Change Programme (PNAC), which they know very well, says unequivocally that, to be granted, it has to contemplate environmental criteria and where the only criterion was not only the price, that of the environment, in this case, nothing has, more than that, in the signed contract was imposed that the new vehicles, the new buses, could be in second hand and necessarily diesel. Very good this reversal, from an environmental point of view! I do not distinguish the previous government between the first half and the second half, I think it was always bad, but I do distinguish the absence of the Ministry of the Environment during the first half of the former Government and the existence of the Ministry of the Environment in the second half. Nevertheless, as far as electrical mobility is concerned, with regard to the mistransposition of the energy efficiency directive, which we are now able to unlock, many things have gone wrong and many things have been done wrong, inhibiting, indeed, a set of investments which I, more than anyone else, would like to be on the ground, and many good examples, which I will keep for the second intervention, what this government is already doing. In conclusion, I want to say that, in fact, Paris was a completely different process from those who preceded it. And in this sense, it can be said that it is a victory of diplomacy, because unlike Kyoto, which was only for the rich countries, unlike Copenhagen, which is a flop, trying to be for all, but with a paternalist position of the rich countries to tell others what they should do, is undoubtedly the model of Paris, the model made from below, the model of commitment established by each of the countries, which is the right model for success in this strategy to combat climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u35	To begin the second round of the debate, Mr Coimbra has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u36	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Paris Agreement will enter into force 30 days after ratification by 55 countries representing at least 55 % of the emissions concerned. It is expected that on 7 October — 30 days before COP-22 — the conditions for the Agreement to enter into force will be met, taking into account the number and size of the countries that have already ratified it. Portugal, even for the leading role it has played in recent years, must remain among the first countries at this stage of the process. Portugal is one of the countries that has made the most and most demands a greater ambition, in terms of combating climate change and renewable energy, and is also one of the countries that will suffer the greatest impacts of climate change on its coastline, its waters and its ecosystems. in recent years, we have been able to look at environmental goals as an opportunity! We have seen that the better we adapted to meet demanding goals, the more opportunities we could create, the more competitive we could be and create more green jobs. We have been leaders in environmental policies and this has had a positive impact on our economy and has been internationally recognized. The year 2015 was also notable with regard to international commitments: sustainable development in New York, financing in Addis Ababa, climate change in Paris. The years 2016 and 2017 are, therefore, years of integration of action plans, of each one knowing what his role is and what he has to do. It's years of construction. It's years of making it happen. Unfortunately, Portugal now gives more signs of wanting to talk than to want to do, of content with going back, rather than wanting to lead! Being on the head of the platoon, it seems like he wants to walk back. Even this week, at the hearing in the Committee on the Environment, and today too, the Minister said that the commitment and strategy for green growth is a 'generous but dispersed' initiative and that it is the understanding that we should focus on the circular economy. Mr Minister, abdicating a major commitment to green growth, which involves more than 100 civil society entities united in a coalition, with an action plan with 114 goals by a single vector that was integrated into this strategy so praised as European and global is very little for those who want to be leaders in the environment and for those who say they want to comply with Paris. In addition, it is also registered in this case : the Government, after much longer than it would have been necessary to send the Agreement to Parliament, requested a further postponement of the agenda of the discussion in plenary from 23 September to today. And it is good to say that we are only here today under the conditions in which we are, because Parliament has done everything that it can do, has broken down all the deadlines in record time. On 14 September, the resolution was at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to distribute. The exchange of the party to whom the rapporteur — from PS to PSD — was appointed, was agreed, and all possible steps were burned to shorten the time for the adoption of the report.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u37	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. We have to keep the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u38	I conclude now, Mr President. Mr Minister, it was Parliament, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the rapporteur — his predecessor, Jorge Moreira da Silva — who allowed this possibility. We felt that if it depended on the government, the delay would be inevitable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u39	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u40	Portugal would not be the fifth country to ratify the Agreement, as it has just announced. But time is very short. This diploma must now be promulgated by the President of the Republic, published in the Journal of the Republic and deposited in the United Nations. All this before October 7th, to enter into force, as regards us, before COP-22. That's what we want it to happen! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u41	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Historical, universal, ambitious and dynamic are four adjectives that well characterize this Paris Agreement, which we are debating today and which, we are convinced, will be approved unanimously, placing Portugal in line with the process of ratification in European terms. It is historic because, for a long time, an international agreement has been established that binds all States to a common objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And it was possible to achieve this design with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. An agreement that aims to contain global warming, promote a fossil-free society and increase international aid to developing countries. It is also historic because of the commitments made, as has already been mentioned by the honourable Members. Members, and also because at the beginning of this month, the United States of America and China, the two largest issuers, announced that they have ratified the Agreement. It is also universal agreement. It is the first international agreement with legal force to bind all countries to efforts to contain their greenhouse gas emissions. And it goes beyond differences that had so far prevented an agreement to replace the Kyoto Protocol, without forgetting that this was the international treaty which, in one day, brought together the largest number of signatures around a single common objective and confirmed the commitment of 171 nations to prevent global temperatures from rising further. But it is also an ambitious agreement. for the first time, it refers to the maximum limit of 1, 5oC of global average temperature increase, the strengthening of climate financing mobilization of aid to developing countries and ensuring that everyone has to walk to neutral CO2 emissions. Finally, this is also a dynamic agreement, when introducing a new target definition system, in which countries have to present climate plans every five years, a novelty, given that, in the past, the targets were defined from top to bottom. Mrs. Members, we have reason to be satisfied with Portugal's route in this area, with the registration of our peak emissions in 2005, the limitation of the increase in emissions in the period 2008 - 2012 to 20 % compared to 1990, when the Kyoto target was 27 %, and we are about to meet the second target of the commitment period for 2020. The Government has implemented and is working on a set of mitigation measures such as the regulation of the policy system and measures that will support the implementation of national climate change plans for 2020 and 2030, the approval of the national air quality strategy, the creation of the environmental fund, the clear bet on public transport and electricity mobility and, still this week, the Ministry of Economy announced the launch of an investment line of EUR 100 million for energy efficiency in public buildings. at the level of adaptation, a set of measures, such as the approval of the risk management plan and flood zones, the promotion of knowledge and the intensification of monitoring, among others, are also being developed. We are actually on the right track, but it is an impossible challenge for us to meet alone. It demands all of us — government, scientific community, business community and citizens — commitment, determination and action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u43	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u44	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: As has been mentioned in the Minister's speech, there are very positive signs in how this Paris Agreement has been implemented and ratified, especially in comparison with the previous experience, Kyoto, which took seven years to be ratified. So we have very low levels and it is easy to do better than what we are used to in this matter. Portugal must contribute to the debate on the various aspects of the energy transition, the transition aspects of transport, energy production and consumption, as I mentioned in my previous speech. But I do not want to stop using this last intervention to refer again to the problem of the signs that the country gives and the recent choices made in the country regarding fossil fuels. It is that there is oil and gas everywhere, and everything always depends on the availability to spend money and destroy the territories. Portuguese legislation reduced the cost of investment and facilitated the destruction of territories, and this is one of the main reasons why there are 15 concessions delivered in the country for the exploration of gas and oil. With the enormous duration of these contracts — almost 60 years — these concessionary companies can freeze the processes, pending an increase in the price of oil, and start the destructive extraction process at a time when this makes sense commercial. Portugal would, in fact, become a guest of a doomed industry, catching the last train from the unsustainability of fossils and delaying an energy transition that proclaims and wants to join. It is within the framework in which strong voices are expressed in Portuguese society, in which communities rise in the coastal areas where these concessions are provided, that is where the main role of warning for climate change is today in the hands of movements which oppose the realization of the concessions renewed or even attributed by the previous Government, is in this context, Mr Minister, who I want to put the question of oil concessions in Portugal and the need for its suspension, the need for renegotiation with the dealers, so that none of them can move on to the prospecting phase and the exploitation phase. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u45	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u46	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : Portugal has been on the front line in the fight against climate change — and it is not yet this year. In fact, the previous government was at the forefront of European climate policy with the discussion of the new European climate and energy package for 2030 and took on a set of ambitious goals in preparation for this agreement, as has already been mentioned here. And despite the Minister's desire to deny the evidence, they are unforgettable, because there are several indicators of environmental performance of so many other international rankings that place us at the summits, in environmental terms, in recent years. I am an example of the index of the Bertelsmann Foundation, which puts us fifth in European climate policies and the World Economic Forum that puts us, this year, in the tenth in energy policies. The ratification of the Agreement, which we are going to make today, will be the confirmation of Portugal's vanguard at European level, because we will be, as has already been mentioned, the fifth country of the European Union to ratify it. We are confident that the other Member States will follow this example, thus ensuring that the European Union is a full member of the COP-22 agreement next November and that the Agreement will enter into force, as Mr Minister here has already had the opportunity to mention, this year and not at the end of four years, as stated in the most optimistic forecasts at first. We therefore consider that this agreement, despite its weaknesses, is an opportunity that the country should not waste. Of course, for the contribution that will be made to the containment of the average global temperature increase, but also for the potential for economic development that closes. And when we talk about development, we cannot forget the three vectors he closes: the environment, the economic and the social. We are, in particular, in terms of innovation in clean technologies—and here we believe that Portugal has comparative advantages that may distinguish us—, the country of the European Union with a greater number of hours of sunshine and we have a wide maritime border with an almost inexhaustible potential for the exploitation of wave energies. However, in order to take this opportunity, Mr Minister, it will be essential to raise investment, which unfortunately has not occurred. As we know, and we have already discussed this issue in Parliament this week, private investment has been incipient, lack of confidence on the part of investors and public investment, which is dependent on Community funds, is slow to arrive. So, Minister, I leave you with very simple questions: what concrete measures will the Government implement to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement and when will it implement them? Will the government maintain the goals set by the previous government or will it review them? What funding has the government provided for the achievement of the goals? Is it available to put enough money in the State budget for the national counterpart of the Community funds? Is the Government prepared to reinforce and bet on the role of the Portuguese forest as a carbon sink? In short, Minister, what will be the government's future climate and energy policy in order to fulfill our responsibility? And what is the contribution to limit the average temperature of the planet to 1, 5 o C? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u47	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time when we are having this debate, and we believe that it is necessary to look at all the dimensions of the issues concerning the environment and climate change in this debate, we believe that it should not only be made about objectives and proclamations. It is necessary to see, analyze and reflect on the concrete actions and measures that are on the table to achieve these same objectives. If there is agreement on the need to intervene and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it is necessary to look at and see which mechanisms and instruments are being adopted or are on the table to achieve these same objectives. And if the objectives are common, the mechanisms and instruments that are associated with them are no longer the same, and it cannot be said that there is consensus around these mechanisms. We are talking about mechanisms and instruments which are based on the perspective of marketing and financing of the environment and which are also associated and tied to the interests of large capital. In fact, in all the measures that are associated with this matter we see that, once again, capital looks at the environment as another business opportunity, and we are not looking at environmental issues as having a need to intervene in a perspective of its safeguard and protection. This is the example of the carbon market, the European transaction scheme and carbon sinks, which are currently being used as a form of interference and domination by the interests of developed countries and large multinationals in developing countries. We believe that it is necessary to break with that perspective and with that path. Therefore, the CFP has brought to this debate a draft resolution that recognises that greenhouse gas emissions are a problem for which we need to intervene. As such, we defend the strengthening of the State's means to develop a true policy of defence of nature; we advocate the need to put an end to tax taxation, which only penalises the most impoverished layers; we advocate the strengthening of measures that increase energy efficiency, develop energy alternatives in the public domain and not jeopardise the food security of the populations; we advocate the strengthening of investment in public transport; we advocate the development of measures that protect local production and the fair distribution of efforts to limit greenhouse gas production. That is another element which, in our view, is not positive, because it places at the same level developed countries and developing countries, when some — many — are at the same level! — have already contributed to the emission of greenhouse gases. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u49	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this process of approval and ratification of the Paris Agreement, I would now take advantage of the fact that the Greens consider it important — and I have already spoken about the matter of the Agreement itself in the last intervention — to speak about the measures or objectives that we also have to take into account in order to make our contribution to combating climate change. This is where the PCP draft resolution enters. In addition, I welcome the CFP for having taken the initiative to present this draft resolution, to the extent that it has brought to the debate a set of guidelines and objectives that they consider important to achieve, and one of the objectives that it draws — I am focusing specifically on the draft resolution of the CFP — is precisely on a matter which the Greens consider absolutely crucial, collective mobility. The Greens believe that little relevance has been given to this matter in the context of the climate change strategy. We must have a definite objective in this regard, because we are talking about an individual transport sector that has made a huge contribution in recent years, with significant growth, to greenhouse gas emissions. However, in this way too, and with the aim of combating climate change, we must seize this objective of strengthening collective mobility and making individual transport less attractive, through the encouragement that can be made of collective mobility. There must be an inversion in the pendulum movements regarding preference for collective mobility in relation to individual mobility, in this case of transport, of individual car. And there has been little commitment and effective measures in this regard. The Greens continue to consider that the transport licences and the offer of transport to the citizen are fundamental answers for citizens to be encouraged by collective mobility. On the other hand, Mr Minister, we believe that making an agreement and linking ourselves to this agreement with a set of practical inconsistencies behind it makes no sense. For example, worldwide, the continued support for fossil fuel is an absolute shame. I mean, either we're going in one direction or we're going in another! But when economic power speaks much higher than the environmental objectives themselves, the thing gets a little bit distorted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u52	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. For example, in Portugal, when we are in the era of decarbonization, the former government suddenly launched the research for oil exploration. That's not right. These are reflections we must make, so that we do not enter the era of incongruence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u53	Mr André Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: One of the subjects which the Ministry of the Environment has precisely to do with the implications of agricultural activity in the environment. Therefore, to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, we believe that one of the main regenerative solutions is the implementation of a national plan for organic agriculture. It is known, Mr Minister for the Environment, that the exchange of conventional agricultural systems for organic farming reduces greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30 %. With this transition to organic agriculture, the country can regenerate soils and water lines, increase biodiversity, increase nutritional quality of food and avoid the entry of toxics into the food chain, and strengthen employment in low-density territories. Mr Minister, this way of producing food, by contributing to reducing the use of fossil, fertilizer and pesticides, mitigates, in addition to the emission of greenhouse gases, other pollution manifestations. In order for Portugal to have a key and positive role in combating climate change, we need to affirm, together, as a Nation, that it is essential to invest in intensive and agrotoxic agriculture and, on the other hand, to regenerate soils, aquifers, watercourses and local communities with a strong and rapid investment in organic agriculture. We don't just want to survive, we want to prosper.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u55	For an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I shall conclude with an intervention which I am finalizing in today's debate. I begin by telling Mr Bruno Coimbra that I do not understand the timetable he is talking about. The Agreement was signed at the end of April of this year in New York, and three months ago the Agreement was in the Assembly of the Republic. in my initial intervention, thank you for the speed with which this schedule was made and it is with a huge taste that I am here today. In fact, I have no doubt that this is where I must be, and this is also the course of the European Environment Council in Brussels today. So I didn't take part in today's choice, believing that, yes, we're still going on time. It is true that Portugal has already been the leader of some of these processes, such as electric mobility, which is not strictly due to the former Government. Strictly nothing! More: Portugal, which was in fact the leader of electric mobility — leadership that was launched by the former socialist government —, due to a generic mistrust that never understood what it was, was stopped, and the possibility of leadership that Portugal had in a sector that evolved so quickly in recent years has been lost. This has no other way of saying. Portugal has already been a leader in the field of renewable energy. It's completely true. I repeat: I am well between the first and the second half of the governance of the former Government with regard to the environment. But that two-year cut, also in this sector, out of distrust, simply out of mistrust, in fact, has compromised — and how! — Portugal's leadership in this area. Let us say that what was coming from behind had greater robustness, had another dimension and, therefore, this loss of leadership was less evident. with regard to fossil fuels, I would, however, like to make a gap between oil and gas here, because gas, particularly in collective transport, is even a very relevant transition solution for clean energy. When they ask what the government's strategy is, I can say that I will not find the carbon market, or more or less. More: it is in the sectors where there is a carbon market that more developments have occurred in recent years. And so these are the sectors that most concern me - and I will not say that it is because there is no carbon market - but, having no carbon market, they have such a diffuse source of pollution. And yes, transports above all of them. Portugal can be proud of the route it has made in the last 20 years, 25 years with regard to the satisfaction of quality indices regarding water supply, despite the unjustified breakdown of the national consensus caused by the previous Government. Portugal has done so in the field of solid waste management and has done so in the field of treatment of effluents, but Portugal has not done so in the field of mobility. The jump is about to go. I believe that this is even the time to make that leap, yes, by betting on collective transport; yes, by betting on the design of cities for people; yes, by bet on soft mobility modes and having at the center of all this not only government policies but also local policies and practices. When, for four years, supply and demand in the public transport network in Lisbon and Porto fall more than 25 %, as in anything in life, it is much easier to lose than to win. Nevertheless, and we do not deny the problems that the metropolitan of Lisbon has been experiencing, it has gained 9 % in the number of passengers throughout this year, which, of course, also represents a new awareness on the part of people and an increasing awareness of these matters. The PO SEUR, which I have inherited, says, so that there is no doubt, no one would commit the madness of investing a tostoon to enlarge the meters of Lisbon and Porto — not even omit it! — that these types of interventions, including the acquisition of rolling stock, are prohibited. There wasn't any doubt here. It is all this, in fact, that we are changing, drawing the projects that precede it and believing that in 2018 we will be high. Mr André Silva, you are absolutely right about the environmental concerns arising from agricultural activity. If we divide the diffuse sectors into three large groups—and I'm not putting them in order, I'm just going to list them, the first is transport, the second is buildings with energy efficiency, and the third is agriculture, of which I will now speak. I have no doubt that a new CAP (common agricultural policy) has to be redefined in favour of environmental requirements. Objectively, the practice that is continuing over time, even though with improvements that are also sensitive, has to be discussed at the European Union level and I really hope for a new CAP that is very different from what we have and those who have before it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that this Agreement arises six years after the Copenhagen Summit, which failed to establish a successor to the Kyoto Protocol. I can therefore point out that without the enormous effort of negotiation, diplomacy, commitment, commitment and involvement of all sectors of our societies—from national governments, parliaments, local authorities, business communities, educational and scientific communities, the media, which have always played a very important role in the movements of citizens and non-governmental organizations, all of them, but particularly those in the field of the environment—the construction of the foundations on which the Paris Agreement is based would not have been possible. The political commitment demonstrated by more than 190 countries, representing almost all of the global emissions, by submitting their national contributions, prior to COP-21, in which they demonstrate their national plans and programmes, was a strong impetus for the adoption of the Paris Agreement and is a sign of the potential that this Agreement has in response to the common threat that climate change represents. This overall political commitment was reaffirmed at the signing ceremony of the Agreement which took place in New York on 22 April, and to which 175 Parties to the Convention joined, including of course the European Union and Portugal, in another manifestation of accession to the Agreement, I would say that it would be accession to an agreement — without precedent. Since the Signing Ceremony, they have ratified the Paris Agreement 61 Parties, representing around 48 % of emissions, being already verified up to one of the criteria for the entry into force of the Agreement, which they know are 55 parts and 55 % of the emissions of the globe. It is important to highlight here a political sign of the greatest relevance: the simultaneous formal ratification of the Paris Agreement by the United States of America and China on 3 September. These two countries are the world's main issuers and together account for 38 % of the overall emissions. We are confident that the Agreement will be able to enter into force even before the next Conference of the Parties to take place in Marrakesh next November, thereby exceeding all expectations. I repeat, there was no time limit but there was the conviction that it would take four years until the Paris Agreement was ratified and in force, and that could happen in less than a year. Portugal cannot, in any way, stand on the sidelines of this event. The European Union and all its Member States are making every effort to conclude the ratification procedure of the Agreement as soon as possible, giving the signal to the world of our level of commitment to the compromise that has been reached. The message I have now received concerns me and refers to the absence of a complete agreement on ratification by the European Union as soon as possible. It is our responsibility to do everything in order for this to happen, of course, in Portugal and Europe. Ladies and gentlemen. Member, in this case, it is your responsibility, following the proposal addressed to this House by the Government, to take the next step in the process of ratification by Portugal of this Agreement, in order to ensure that our country is associated with this historic event from the very first moment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I have already mentioned, the objectives of this Government's policy are fully aligned with the vision and objectives of European climate policy and the Paris Agreement, highlighting in particular the objective of promoting the transition to a low carbon economy, generating more wealth and employment, ensuring a sustainable trajectory of greenhouse gas emissions reduction between 30 % and 40 %, in 2030, when compared to the predecessor of 2005, ensuring compliance with national mitigation commitments and putting Portugal in line with European objectives. It is also aimed at strengthening national resilience and capacity to adapt to climate change; ensuring commitment to international negotiations and also, in terms of cooperation; encouraging research, innovation and knowledge production; involving society in the challenges of climate change, contributing to increasing individual and collective action, which is absolutely decisive and which has been mentioned here by several of the Members. Members; increasing the effectiveness of information and monitoring systems; ensuring conditions for financing and increasing investment levels in order to improve climate conditions, stressing here the importance of the circular economy, failing to understand the circular economy as only the ability to manage resources at the end of the line but, essentially, seeing this process from the beginning, from the design of products, from the choice of raw materials, from the manufacturing processes, to ensure greater durability of products and, above all, to ensure that when a product reaches the end of its life cycle it is not a waste we have in hand but a new raw material. Portugal has a very positive record in the implementation of policies aimed at reducing its emissions, not being this merit, certainly only of this government, but of many who have preceded it, with particular relevance, of course, for the socialist governments, which have launched electric mobility and all the project of renewable energy in Portugal. however, we need to continue and deepen this register through policies to mitigate climate change, which I have already mentioned, and which promote the transition to a competitive and less intensive economy in the use of non-renewable resources and therefore low carbon, placing Portugal on a long-term emission reduction path in line with the Paris objectives. It is also up to mitigation policies to contribute to the creation of low-carbon jobs, products and services, exploiting economic opportunities and promoting their exportation. I stress, in particular, the need for greater dynamism in the involvement of society, in view of its participation in this very important fight. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal is convinced that the Agreement, based on global participation, solidarity, transparency and a five-year ambition mechanism, will always be renewed and combined with successive commitments that represent a progression to previous obligations and reflect the highest level of ambition of the Parties, is the instruments that will collectively achieve the objectives identified. We continue to be fully committed to international negotiations on climate change. Ladies and gentlemen. Members — and with this in mind — will be critical in the coming years as regards the development of the rules for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. I therefore leave this House with the deep conviction that there is a global consensus for its ratification, which will put Portugal in line with the fight against climate change. Today, more than ever, we must do things together, as a united nation in this world that is our common home. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u57	As you have noted, the Minister has joined in his reply to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen with the closing intervention. We are thus putting an end to this item on the agenda. We now move on to the next point, which is generally discussed in draft law No 243 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the obligation to indicate the country of origin in the labelling of milk for human consumption ( PSD ) together with draft resolution No 478 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to safeguard national milk production ( CFP ). To present the PSD bill, Mr Nuno Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The end of the milk quotas, a process on which the PSD has always expressed itself against, has been subjected to a severe crisis on a sector which has already been debated with serious problems, justified by the breakdown in exports due to the Russian embargo and by the decrease in the purchases of the countries most affected by the price of oil. These problems add to the overall increase in production, which Portugal has not escaped, and imports of foreign milk through distribution, which have actually created an excess in the supply of milk in the Portuguese market. And this, of course, contrasts with the decrease in demand. The PSD considers that, in order to combat this crisis, palliative short-term financing measures are not available to producers, as this Government has done. These measures are quite important, allowing producers to meet their day-to-day commitments, but they do not solve the problem, they push it with the belly to the front. Structural measures are needed, on the one hand, at the level of supply, and a European regulatory mechanism must be set up to enable producers to maintain income and balance the size of production on a European scale and, on the other hand, at the level of demand, where we have measures such as this one presented today, the diploma of labelling of consumer milk, which materialises a legitimate claim of a sector of great importance in Portugal and means a structural change in the trade chain. This is also an enormous step towards greater freedom for the consumer and, as a result, a natural promotion for national production. I know that this was not initially the understanding of the Portuguese Government, which even mentioned in this Parliament that the PSD, by defending the milk labelling, allowing the Portuguese to know which origin of the milk they bought and, above all, had the freedom to compare what was Portuguese, would be violating everything most sacred in European rules. Unfortunately, for this government Europe is sacred only when it is appropriate, and this narrative, that the PSD was committing the greatest heresies against Europe, continued day after day, until, to this Government, this Minister of Agriculture, either Hollande in France or Renzi in Italy, announced measures identical to those of the PSD. And perhaps because you have heard 84% of European consumers saying you want to know the origin of the milk they buy in their countries. And then, to surprise too — and fortunately for Portugal, fortunately for the milk sector — of the most attentive, as it caused the Minister Capoulas Santos, who so much violated European rules, became one of the seven milk priorities in Portugal. Today, we can say that the labelling diploma can see the light of the day. However, to get here he counted on the company of socialists, yes, but of French and Italians. Let us hope in the vote that you can count on the Portuguese Socialists. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u59	Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The economic and financial situation that the country is going through has an intimate relationship with the destruction of productive sectors and with the deindustrialization of the country, promoted from the integration process in the then EEC. The solutions to the situation in Portugal are producing more and by valuing the productive sectors and those who produce them. This is the proposal of the CFP and that is what they are defending more and more Portuguese. So safeguarding productive sectors of extinction is something that needs to be done for the benefit of producers and the country. The dairy sector is those in which the country is self-sufficient and can increase production to cope, for example, with dependence on some dairy products, such as cheese or yogurt. It is a modern, organized sector with standards of hygiene and quality above the European average. Therefore, Portuguese milk is of excellent quality. This sector is experiencing huge difficulties today, as producers are losing money to work. The milk is today sold on the farm at 26 / 27 cents per kilogram, while producing it costs at least 31 cents. The « milk and honey land » promised by the European Union and by many rulers in Portugal, if producers were to organize and modernize after all, did not happen. What happened was that the countries of Central and Northern Europe, those who dominate this Union, are producing more and unloading their excesses in our country. The situation is responsible, and these are the parties and policies of complete subordination to the European Union and its directory. The PSD, the CDS and also the PS never wanted to hear the successive and multiple warnings of the PCP, including in this Assembly of the Republic. Some of those who refuse even to question the European Union are now available to lay down rules that protect us. The PSD, which with Minister Assumption Cristas went to sleep in the form for four years, while it was government, presents today a project on labelling, after having in the past voted against the same proposal of the PCP. We must not fail to denounce this attempt at whitening its action by means of a proposal which, after all, still lacks the consent of the European Union. But since there is this willingness to consider measures that allow the protection of our production, the CFP believes that we should go further and go to the root of the problem and therefore proposes that the legislative framework which sets out rules to force the large distribution to use in its sales preferably the milk produced in Portugal, in parallel with the measures necessary to indicate the origin of the milk, as well as the maximum volume of milk marketed with brands of the distributor — these white marks — should be established, with a percentage of no more than 25 % of the total volume of milk sold in each month. The CFP also proposes as an innovative aspect established, in conjunction with the Agricultural Markets Observatory and Agri-Food Imports, the mechanisms necessary for monitoring production costs and penalties for milk transactions that occur below that value. Finally, and having already adopted resolutions by this House on the replacement of a production regulatory regime, the CFP proposes that the Portuguese Government take the necessary measures to depolate this process to the bodies of the European Union. We hope to be able to count on all Members to follow these just and necessary measures to save the dairy sector from extinction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u61	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese milk producers are receiving 26 / 27 cents per litre, and production costs them more than 30 cents. They are therefore paying to produce and to pay to work. After installing the chaos in the sector at the end of the milk quota scheme in 2015, the European Union aligns its responsibilities with throwing the crisis in the milk sector above each country individually. rather than adopting a concerted policy of production and price stabilization, the liberal decision was by self-regulation, by saving those who can. The reduction in production of one of them does not mean the reduction in production of others; on the contrary, the North of Europe, with a great productive capacity, uses to increase its production while promoting the decline in production in Portugal. Although we are part of the common agricultural policy system, the greatest effort to reduce the catastrophic effects of these policies is made at the expense of national money and a loss of food sovereignty and productive capacity. On the other hand, the large distribution continues to buy milk coming from outside, to whom it sells cheaper, crushing production and imposing prices uncontrolledly. Only a market intervention and a firm regulation, called quotas or any other name, can guarantee fair prices and give back some hope to those who work so hard to produce milk, this food so natural and so rich. Furthermore, on a proposal from the Left Block, this House of the Republic has already voted in favour of the restoration of the quota system, curiously in a vote in which the PSD abstained. At the national level, however, there is indeed action that can be taken to try to reduce the damage caused by unfair and harmful European decisions to the national dairy sector. Some recommendations included in the CFP resolution project come in this direction and are positive. The defence of labelling identifying the national origin of milk is one of them, and it is also one of the two diplomas we enjoy today. Simply, the defence of the labelling, presented in the form of a bill, as the PSD does, does nothing to advance an initiative in this direction already triggered by the government and whose procedures are already running in Brussels with some probability of success. Here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one: or the government's initiative for labelling is already successful at the end of this month, and in this case, a possible approval of this PSD proposal would only complicate and unnecessarily delay a process that is gaining speed, or the government's initiative is not going to happen in the European Union and, in this case, it does not appear why an initiative in the same direction would be going to pass soon. Therefore, while accepting the substance of the PSD bill, we consider its approval here and now or harmful, in one case, or useless, in another reason why we will not approve it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u63	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the PSD initiative in seeking to strengthen milk labelling information. However, we believe that the proposal is beyond what it can and must be achieved. The information of origin and packaging should appear on the labels of these products but also on other foods. We believe that milk should not be attributed an exceptional character. More: knowing that the feeding of many dairy cows is done through rations based on transgenic cereals, we consider it essential that all packages be labelled if the milk avier of animals fed with genetically modified organisms. This labelling rigour will strengthen the right to information and to the informed choice of more citizens. with regard to the draft resolution of the CFP, we follow your concerns but disagree with the solutions presented. While it is claimed that the decline in milk consumption is the reflection of wrong national and European policies, what we note is that there is a change in voluntary and conscious consumption habits on the part of citizens. More and more Portuguese have access to scientific information and choose to abandon the consumption of milk. The times when marketing machines, based solely on a spreadsheet, created needs and myths at the service of the milk industry, are gradually being supplanted by a new reality: that of knowledge and awareness that milk is not an essential food and that its consumption may even be at the source of various diseases. As the CFP points out in its draft resolution — and I quote — « within 20 years the number of farms has decreased by 90 %», but the solution is not to artificially promote the consumption of milk and, indeed, to help families dependent on this sector to convert their activity. Help, yes— of course! — but for a real and beneficial solution for all those involved in the activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u65	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u66	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: Compulsory labelling is subject to European rules which are very restrictive essentially as regards the country of origin when it is a Member State of the European Community. It was the worsening of the crisis in milk at European level that increased the pressure to identify the country of origin and led to this measure being approved as a pilot in the European Union - I mean - here - which is now going on in six or seven countries, without notification to the European Union, which will give a binding opinion. We believe, therefore, that the precedent that already exists, particularly with the countries that are taking advantage of this pilot project, will also allow Portugal to accept its application for compulsory labelling. I must recall that the former Government had already drawn up a milk action plan in September 2015, where it provided, among other measures, for increased labelling requirements to identify the origin of the product. So we cannot fail to welcome here the bill that the PSD presents and that, of course, we will follow. In this regard, I would also like to point out that the Government recently announced a set of 17 measures for the milk sector in a media operation, such as its pan-agreement, despite about half of these measures, practically already being implemented since the previous Government and therefore, in essence, these measures have been strengthened or re-implemented. This is a speech that is already customary in the government, which calls to you the paternity of some measures, renouncing them and making them pass as new. in this case, this and this specific programme for the milk and milk products sector is no more than a recycling of the milk action plan that the previous Government had made, with adjustments, as I said, these adjustments that were due to the evolution of the crisis. The Government thus replaces, for example, the increase in investment support for producer organisations' shorts by an increase in milk producers. We are not against, of course, the increase in investment in milk producers, but I would like to point out here that the vast majority of milk producers are partners in producer groups and would therefore benefit from this increase with the legislative situation that existed. Unfortunately, this makeup that the Government has made in this specific plan for the milk sector has dropped a point which, for us, is fundamental and has to do with the research agenda, because Portugal is a surplus country in milk but is deficient in processed milk products. It was therefore urgent, as a solution for the national dairy sector, to invest in processing — cheese, yogurt and processed milk products — always, as is obvious, with labelling and indication of origin, because, as we all know, Portuguese consumers prefer national milk and therefore this will always be a added value. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u67	Mr António Borges has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal is currently the Member State which has put into practice the largest package of national aid to the milk sector. Once again, I would like to recall that the Portuguese Government has been constantly demanding measures to support the sector from the European Union. It has done so in view of the difficult situation in which national production was already in place, when, at the end of last year, this government has taken office, and has made it aware that the responses to a crisis, which is global, must be found in a logic of global response and regulation in the European area. This is also evidence of the recent approval by the Council of Ministers of the Specific Programme for the Milk and Milk Products Sector, which came into force very recently, with 17 measures including the labelling of milk. In our view, this is a very important programme that also meets the draft resolution presented by the CFP. But contrary to what Mr Nuno Serra said, the PS has always argued that the way of food should be transparent to consumers and that the labelling process should also be understood as an enhancement of national production. That is why, and following the information that the Minister for Agriculture expressed in the parliamentary committee and which he well knows, the Government sent to Brussels the draft diploma on milk labelling, sent to the European Union on 27 July. With the communication of Portugal's intention, next October 28th is the date from which the implementation of the labelling will be allowed, in case there are no negative reactions, which at this time are not known. hence that a possible approval of the PSD project requires a new and redundant communication to Brussels, which would lead us to a new starting point, losing even more time, with many and many more months of delay. I would therefore like to highlight the following aspects: the PSD was in the Government from 2011 to 2015 ; the milk crisis was strongly accentuated last year before this government took office, and the Government and the Minister of Agriculture did not wait four years, as indeed happened with the previous government. After France, Portugal is the country that has earlier the labelling process, together with Italy and Lithuania. We therefore understand that the PSD initiative is manifestly inappropriate, not to adjective it otherwise. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). — Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : With regard to the intervention of the CDS-PP, and also with regard to the PS, they are very good at that saying « Good preachers Frei Tomás... », because the truth is that if you now require a set of measures is because they have not taken them for four years while they were government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u70	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u71	And more than prayers or preaching, the producers needed measures. I would also like to say, Mr André Silva, that in the CFP we respect the choice of consumers, but we do not forget that this is a national sector, it is a sector capable of generating self-sufficiency and that must make the difference and it is not of any importance. Finally, I would like to appreciate the possibility of adopting some of the measures proposed by the CFP, including measures prohibiting the sale of milk below production costs, measures limiting the action of large distribution. This is because what we see is that this sector well illustrates the example of the statement that the CFP makes that the European Union lays down rules that prevent the development of the country. Foreign milk enters Portugal because we are on the open market; the large distribution imports milk, making prices in Portugal lower and using it as bait for other products, but all because free competition requires it. To safeguard national production and those who produce wealth with their work, it seems that there is no rule of the European Union that can benefit them. That is why we need to take measures here that give a signal to safeguard this sector and prevent it from extinction, because that is where it goes. [[PCP applause.]] The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). — Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has been said, and very well, by the Socialist Party Member, the crisis has subsided after the quotas have ended. Quotas, except error, ended in May 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u73	March!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u74	It is true, therefore, that the former Government could have done something, and even we, on this bench, when the seriousness of the situation began to be verified, we proposed exemptions from social security and some promotion of what our products were. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me go! — the 2015 State budget, when we already had the notion of the crisis we had in the dairy sector, approved by your will a reduction of VAT in a set of imported products which are clearly substitutes for milk. You can't come here to say one thing and when it's time to try, you can do another. Therefore, you are well in time for the coming State budget to go back, but above all, you are well in time to take the same action as the PSD here today, because, according to what has been said, if the crisis was going on at the end of last year, you have had more than six months to present measures and only the PSD has introduced the measure on labelling which, now, the left parties say cannot be approved because we have to wait for the European decision. Who saw them and who saw them! They are already waiting for European decisions before they speak. [[Exactly! Because it's good for them!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u75	Today, once again, it has been proved here in this Parliament that some speak and continue to speak and others work. [[PSD applause.]] The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). — Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the second item on our agenda. We will continue with the third point, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions 457 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government of the Republic implement a pilot project on the use of air resources for fire fighting in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PS ), 456 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 64 / 2012 and notwithstanding the adoption of regional measures, be directed towards the Autonomous Region of Madeira measures identical to those adopted in 2012 ( CDS-PP ), 474 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government of the Republic take urgent measures to cover the damage caused by the wave of fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PSD ), 476 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to strengthen fire-fighting support mechanisms in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and to the populations affected by the August 2016 disaster ( PCP ), 481 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that it provide military means to the territory of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which currently carry out monitoring, search and rescue missions, with capacity to intervene in the fight against forest fires ( BE) and 483 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On means of support to the Autonomous Region of Madeira with regard to forest fires ( The Greens ). To present draft resolution No 457 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 8 August of this year, the Madeirans were devastated by a wave of fires that violently hit the capital of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and somehow left the Madeirans, and the Funchalenses in particular, terrorized and fleeing, practically, their houses, their businesses, by the size and severity of the fires. On the second day of the fires, on 9 August, it became clear that the fire was uncontrollable and that Madeira had neither the means nor the equipment to control the same fire. It is true that the request for external aid remained to be made by the Regional Government, but it is also true that once the aid was requested, it was immediately granted support by the Government of the Republic, but also by the Government of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which allowed Madeira to have more than 140 men available at one time to combat this tragedy that was the region. Now, I would like to say that if the speed of fire-fighting aid was remarkable, the speed of support for victims and infrastructure in Madeira was very relevant. I must say that some fires were still under way in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and already the Government of the Republic and the Prime Minister had set up a working group to assess the damage and to define priorities and means and mechanisms to support the Madeirans. This was done immediately, on August 15, there were still some fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Therefore, because of these circumstances, I would like to say that some proposals presented here are, as I believe, all will understand, overcome by reality itself, even being damaged by reality itself. The assessment of the damage done by the Regional Government, in conjunction with the Government of the Republic, which amounts to around EUR 100 million in respect of measures to be urgently implemented, is currently financed by 80 % by means of the Government of the Republic. That is, there is 80% co-financing for all the support that was identified by the regional government, but also by the municipalities that were affected by this tragedy. Only to have a more precise idea, as regards civil protection, which is a very important area with regard to structural interventions to correct the problems of the escalators and stems that may have consequences later, are affected EUR 30, EUR 5 million, as well as equipment that will be acquired to strengthen prevention in Madeira. Two lines of credit, one EUR 10 million and another EUR 12 million, were set up for economic activity for tourism and for the rest of the economic activity. For the rehabilitation of public spaces, a protocol was signed with the Funchal Chamber of EUR 3 million to ensure this rehabilitation, and for housing approximately EUR 17 million was secured. By concluding this first intervention, I mean that, in fact, on these matters, the proposal of the PSD and the CDS is exceeded. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). — Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a series of draft resolutions concerning a tragedy, in particular, which took place this summer in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but which unfortunately also has conquered the Continent. However, it is to the Autonomous Region of Madeira that these projects are directed. In our view, they all have a positive intention, a different approach. On the one hand, some seek to urge the Government, in conjunction with the Regional Government, to be able to minimize these damage, not only to do the lifting of support directly to the people, and others to provide this region with more and better means of combating possible fires, in the future, in particular air resources, taking into account, from the very specific geographical issues pertaining to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. I believe that, in general, we all agree that the region needs to be provided with these means and that people need to be compensated for the damage they have caused. So, from now on, I mean that on the CDS side, we have no substantive opposition to any project, nor are we here to make a kind of contest in the sense of who is most attentive, who is more interested, who is more with the Maderians and, in particular, with the Funchalens. I believe that we will all be and therefore we do not want to support an issue that is national, so I also want to tell you that all projects will have the support of the CDS. I would also like to say to the Member of the Socialist Party that the issue is not only in the lifting of the damage, the question is not only to propose and understand the form of co-financing or financing, using credit lines, using Community funds, resorting to continental funds, using regional funds; the question, in addition to that lifting which is obviously necessary, is the need to bring in, in particular, aid to the people affected. Mr Deputie, I believe that the CDS project remains fully up-to-date, since it urges the Government, in conjunction with the Regional Government and irrespective of the means and measures adopted at the regional level, to which it can at least, unfortunately, copy a model that has yielded good results in the face of a very bad event, which were other fires that happened, in particular in 2012. In this sense, it seems to us that this example, which is generally recognized by all and which has produced good results, will be a good way not only to do the lifting but also to bring the support, in particular and taking account of each case, of the populations. That is just what we propose, and that is just what we hope to support this House. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u78	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have lost lives, houses, cars, businesses, land, animals, part of our saws, lost memories and destroyed dreams of a lifetime. This is the result of the fire wave that devastated Madeira's island on 8 and 9 August. The criminal hand, associated with a rare weather combination, gave the tragedy that we all witnessed. Thanks to the work and commitment of all, including regional authorities, national, military, firefighters, police, health professionals, volunteers and anonymous citizens, even greater consequences have been avoided. During the fires, the rapid response of the Regional Government allowed the evacuation in 2 hours and 10 minutes of 180 people from the Hospital dos Marmeleiros, of 200 people from the Hospital João de Almada, 154 people from four homes of the elderly and still the users of the Clinics of Santa Luzia and Santa Catarina. About 600 people received food, psychological and health care. The regional government did not wait for State aid to solve the problems of affected families, had already temporary relocation of about 148 people and had begun the construction of 30 new homes. The works of surveying, cleaning and recovery of affected areas were immediately initiated. Much has been done by the Regional Government. However, more needs to be done, it is necessary to realize the solidarity and assistance of the State. Mr Carlos Pereira, no, our proposal is not exceeded, it is not even serious to say that it is already exceeded. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u80	The displaced families need to return quickly to their homes and to restore their lives. Nothing will ever be overcome while there is a family that needs help. [[PSD applause.]] We do not underestimate the need to study the feasibility of using air resources in the fight against fires in Madeira. The PSD also advocates this need. however, what concerns us most at this time is people, what moves us is the need for intervention and a more immediate resolution of their concrete problems. What we are concerned about is the creation of mechanisms for obtaining funding for the reconstruction of their homes, for the rehabilitation of destroyed businesses and jobs, for the recovery of our forests, our forests and our agricultural lands. What we are concerned about is the consolidation of damaged infrastructure and equipment. For that, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for this most immediate intervention we stand for, we need the Government of the Republic and we need the commitment and solidarity of all the political forces of this House. We count on her. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only political-party reasons can justify the non-approval of our draft resolution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u81	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, the Autonomous Region of Madeira, particularly the island of Madeira, has been hit by catastrophes of different nature, namely natural disasters, as was the case with the flood that occurred a few years ago, but also accidental catastrophes, or not, generating, in any case, tragedies of very considerable size, as was the case with the fires that occurred for the second time in a short space of a few years. During the fires that occurred a few years ago, we had the opportunity to check on the site the damage caused and, both at this time and now, the existing fire fighting device was called into question, taking into account the extraordinary difficulty of this fight, by all recognized, taking into account the geographical conditions of Madeira Island : very scattered villages, houses scattered throughout the territory, very injured territory and with much difficulty in accessing certain places. Therefore, the issue of the appropriate device to deal with situations such as this one should be the subject of a deep discussion, in particular considering all the controversy that has involved the adequacy of the use of air resources for the fight against fires occurring on Madeira. It is a discussion within which conclusions must be drawn but, concluding by the feasibility of using these air resources, of course all the conditions must be made available so that they can be used in good time to combat fires occurring in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. That is, therefore, one of the meanings of the resolutions that are being discussed here, i.e. that it is readily concluded about the most appropriate device for the fight against fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and that this device is readily viable so that it can act whenever necessary. Then there is another dimension of this disaster, which is, in fact, the damage that has been caused, with many displaced persons, with homes lost, with destroyed material goods and, therefore, with populations to which it must be carried out. And, of course, in this area, there are responsibilities to be assumed at regional level, as it cannot be, but it is our duty, on behalf of national solidarity, that the Government of the Republic will also be available to cooperate with the Regional Government, so that the people are promptly rescued. It is not acceptable that when such disasters occur, when families lose all their property, they have to wait years for all bureaucratic support mechanisms to be effective, in cases where they are indeed. It is therefore necessary to ensure that no one is protected in a situation of tragedy that occurs and that there is a convergence of efforts at regional and national level, so that people can be relocated, so that their homes can be rebuilt and, ultimately, that people can rebuild their lives, because someone who loses their dwelling in a fire sees their lives destroyed and needs to rebuild it, so support should not be lacking. This second dimension is also included in the draft resolution presented by the CFP herein. It is therefore necessary to provide an adequate device for the fight against fires and it is necessary for populations in disaster situations to be readily rescued and not left to their fate alone. And, of course, the Government of the Republic must make itself available to be an effective part of that solution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u83	Mr Paulino Ascenção.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Madeira has been heavily affected in recent years by fires and fillings. There were six disasters in seven years: full in 2010 and 2013 ; fires in 2010, 2012, 2013 and 2016, the latter with three life losses to lament and large losses and destruction of housing. Is this a fatality? Is it only the responsibility of incendiaries, weather conditions, climate change or lack of means of combat? This is the speech of those who have responsibilities and want to hide them. This insistence on the individual acts of the incendiaries, as mentioned here by Mrs Sara Madruga, aims only to spread the responsibility of the PSD, which has been governing the Autonomous Region of Madeira for 40 years and which has overlooked the prevention and planning of forests and urban planning and has always allowed the extraction and storage of inerts in the beds of full watercourses. It was not the government that attacked the fire, but if it had implemented measures to prevent these charred acts, it would have had very minor consequences, incomparable with the proportions that actually had. Another situation that repeats each occurrence of fires is a heated debate about the air resources that Madeira does not have. There are several conflicting studies and opinions, and this is not the place to stir technical issues, but there is an important question, which is the high cost of these means to be used sporadicly—we are talking about four occurrences of fires in seven years—and with at least effective doubt, according to the opinions of some experts. However, the Air Force already has air resources in the region, dedicated to search and rescue, such means that can be adapted or replaced by others that combine the two valences: search and rescue and fight fires. This solution would be a much smaller investment and therefore more justifiable. But it is the fundamental issue and what the Block is advocating is that the focus must be on prevention and planning and not on combating. We can't run systematically after damage. Prevention is needed in cleaning the forest, in combating exotic species, in the protection and expansion of endemic species of the laurissilva forest, which is heritage of humanity and is much more effective in soil support, minimizing spills, much more resistant to the spread of fires and fundamental in water uptake—in the summer months, 66 % of precipitation is hidden, by collecting moisture contained in the fog by impact with vegetation cover. This prevention has been neglected by the PSD, which has ruled the Region and the Authorities of Madeira over the past 40 years. The regional government always appears by hand to cover the damage and, as the response is always positive, and still well, it seems to feed the uncertainty—there is no need for prevention, because Lisbon must pay the damage — but when it has the lost means, as has happened to the Law of the Means to turn to the 2010 storm of EUR 1040 million, away from which they were literally thrown to the sea in useless works, in particular in the construction of a no-for-nothing street, and they continue to be stripped of works of dubious utility, by the current government, on the banks of Funchal, to destroy bridges and hundred-year-old walls. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u85	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u86	The PSD recommends that the government do what the government is already doing and that it has already publicly committed itself, as is the case with the resolution of the CDS, by making both tables of autonomy...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u87	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u88	... by suggesting an inter-ministerial committee consisting of ministries which do not have competence in the Autonomous Regions, because these competences are regionalized. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u89	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That is how many people described what happened in Madeira — a real war scene. And a true scenario of war not only by the burning forest heritage but also by the entry of fire into the center of Funchal. This situation in Madeira has made it absolutely clear that there is no means of prevention and fire fighting in Madeira, including human means, equipment and cars, both in forest and urban areas. It has already been mentioned here by other Mrs. Members, but the Greens believe that it is essential that the existence of air resources to combat forest fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira is truly balanced. On the other hand, there is a question that needs to be addressed, which deals with the time that takes place until support from the Continent reaches Madeira, making the situation ever more dramatic. from that point of view, in the perspective of the Greens, the imperative need for this region to be equipped with local means which immediately attack the fires in the first intervention. Then there is another aspect in this reflection that cannot be forgotten nor can it continue to be underestimated, which is related to the chronic state of spatial disorder, which will certainly take years to correct, but undeniably aggravates the impacts and proportions of the deflagration and spread of forest fires, particularly in the high areas of Funchal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of the tragedy in Madeira, The Greens believe that, in addition, it is crucial to undertake the reforestation of the territory urgently in the burning areas, particularly because we need to be aware that new situations of danger or new threats are created, with the instability of the slopes, nude by the fires, at the tops of the three banks of Funchal and there may result in dramatic situations that Madeira, unfortunately, already knows and certainly does not want to relive. In the face of the calamity experienced with the entry of fires in the center of Funchal, we also need to take into account that populations have experienced very sharp psychological pressures. And, in particular, in children there was a notorious reaction of fear in the face of returning home and viewing their home as a space of insecurity. In view of all these issues, the Greens come to the Assembly of the Republic to propose a draft resolution with two points which we hope to be approved. The first point recommends to the Government, always in collaboration with the Regional Government, of course, the effective strengthening of the means of preventing and combating fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, including the weighting of the use of air resources. in the second point, we recommend to the Government, always in cooperation with the Regional Government, the support to the populations affected by the fire drama in Madeira, including reallocation, housing recovery, the deburocratization of applications and financing processes, the recovery of agricultural and forestry areas and such psychological aid, in particular, to many of the children affected.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u91	For a second intervention, benefiting from time given by the CDS-PP, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of your speech, Mr António Filipe, let me reinforce that the PSD is in favour of conducting studies on air resources. But for us, more important than these studies are people's problems. And these are the problems we want to solve right away. Are air resources important? They are. But before that, it is necessary to ensure the reconstruction of damaged houses, commercial establishments, restore agricultural land and reforest the burning saws. Mr Paulino Ascension, don't play with serious things. Lives, homes were lost, there was a criminal hand associated with rare weather conditions. Don't play with serious things! Mr Paulino Ascension, do you want to or do you not solve people's problems? Stop being a cop, you're in trouble! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u93	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira, with time given by the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to say very clearly to the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS that the Socialist Party does not accept lessons of solidarity from the Members. Members, and the Maderians and the Azorians know well that. When in 2010 the Madeirans were devastated by a storm, which has already been mentioned here, they immediately felt the solidarity of the Government of the Republic. Now, when they were devastated by the recent fires, they once again had the solidarity of the Government of the Republic, which is the Socialist Party. however, in 2013, when the Portuguese who live on the third island were devastated by a storm, having been asked to support the PSD and CDS government, you know what the PSD and CDS government, your government, responded to the Portuguese who live on the third island and were experiencing difficulties? He said to go to the bank, that they were not available to be supportive to the Azorians, to the Portuguese living in the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u95	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u96	Totally false!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u97	So let us be very clear: we do not accept lessons of solidarity on the right, which did this to the Portuguese. A second note to say the following: Members of the PSD and the CDS, which was the part of the story that Mr. You don't understand yet? at present the Government of the Republic provides 80 % — I repeat, 80 % — of the costs mentioned as aid for the recovery of fires in Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u99	I conclude now, Mr President. Instruments are identified, financial means are identified, cooperation agreements with the Autonomous Region of Madeira are identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u100	Please conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u101	I conclude now, Mr President. I think it is obvious that the proposals on the table, both the PSD and the CDS, are overcome by reality and do not make any sense, because it is a bad legislative practice to ask to do what is already being done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u102	Mrs. Members, the joint discussion of draft resolutions 457 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), 456 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 474 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ), 476 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), 481 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE) and 483 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( The Greens ), and before we proceed to the vote, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to account for legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 306 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Basic Law of the Educational System ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolutions 484 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue the policy of former executives in order to manage with responsibility and investment the resources of the National Health Service ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 485 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the recommendations of the Assembly on diabetes, the renewal of the cooperation agreement with the Portuguese Diabetic Protection Association and the establishment of reference centres in the field of diabetes ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 486 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue the policy of former executives to reduce the use of doctors in the provision of services under the National Health Service ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 487 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption and implementation of a National Plan of Action for Positive Aging ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u104	We shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, are unable to register, I would ask them to identify themselves so that they can be considered to be present at the meeting. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 200 presences, to which the presence of the Members is added. Deputies Carlos Pereira, Fernando Anastácio, João Torres and Pedro Delgado Alves, PS, Clara Marques Mendes, PSD, Álvaro Castello-Branco, Antonio Carlos Monteiro and Filipe Anacoreta Correia, CDS-PP, performing 208 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting No 131 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Shimon Peres ( CDS-PP ). I inform you that you are with us, in the diplomatic body gallery, the representative of the Ambassador of Israel, Deputy Chief of Mission of the Embassy of Israel. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last September 28, 2016, 93 years old, Shimon Peres, inexhaustible politician of Israel history. Pears was born on August 2, 1923, in the then Polish city of Vishniev. In 1934, he emigrated with his family to Palestine, still under the British mandate, a few years before the founding of the State of Israel, in 1948. She lives, during her adolescence, in a kibutz, until she gets married, at the age of 22. His grandfather's influences, Rabbi Rav Tzvi Meltzer, have indelibly marked Peres in his way of being and thinking, having given him kindness, dialogue and respect for others as a corollary of human relations and stimulated in him passion for public duty. It is imbued with this spirit that enters, in the 1940s, into active political life, by the hand of David Ben-Gurion, Israel's founding father. He is subsequently appointed Director-General of the Ministry of Defence, in which he remains until 1959. This experience elevates it as a competent, respectable and influential figure in the Israeli public administration, enabling it to carry out, continuously, relevant political functions, for almost seven decades. in the executive plan, he served as Minister of Defence, Integration and Immigrants, Transport, Communications, Finance and Foreign Affairs, and as Prime Minister. in the party plan, being one of the closest collaborators of Ben-Gurion, he was founder and leader of the Labour Party for more than 15 years. He chose, at the next stage of his long political life, to apply for the presidency of the State of Israel, at the age of 84, becoming the world's oldest head of state at the end of his seven-year term in 2014. He had a passion for politics, for the political causes in which he believed and was tireless in defending a peaceful and just solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, based on the mutual recognition of the existence, in security, of the State of Israel and of the future State of Palestine. Intolerant to extremism, I saw in dialogue and moderation the path to the peace of the two peoples. It was this spirit of dedication and commitment that led under the exemplary leadership of Yitzhak Rabin to the signing of the 1990 Oslo Agreements, and that they deserved the Nobel Peace Prize in 1994. Despite the results of the agreements that did not match the initial expectations, its legacy of hope and commitment as a compass for a sustainable, lasting and mutually advantageous solution will remain. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic : 1 — Expresses his regret at the death of Shimon Peres, expressing sympathy to his family and the Israelite people; 2 — Remember Shimon Peres as an unmistakable figure of international policy and as one of the great defenders of a peaceful and just solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] Let us now turn to vote No 133 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Shimon Peres ( PS and PSD ). I ask the Secretary-General Idália Serrão to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last Wednesday, in Israel, at 93 years of age, Shimon Peres, the last survivor of politicians regarded as founders of the State of Israel. Political with intense activity at the highest level of political representation of the State, Shimon Peres performed three times the functions of Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, having also held the position of President of the State of Israel between 2007 and 2014. Despite the strong instability and geopolitical conflict that the Middle East has known since the end of World War I and, in particular, after the establishment of the State of Israel, it is right to recall Shimon Peres' tireless effort in search of peace solutions for the region, from the negotiations with Egypt for the stabilization of Sinai to the signing of the Peace Treaty with the Kingdom of Jordan, going through the direct dialogue that made it necessary to engage in the talks he promoted with the Palestinian Authority, in search of a peaceful solution to the problem of Palestine, this route that would rightly culminate in his thanks in 1994 with the Nobel Peace Prize, then shared with Yitzhak Rabin and Yassser Arafat. Social-democrat illustre and co-founder of the Labour Party of Israel, he also distinguished himself as a parliamentary, having been elected to the Knesset for the first time in 1959. Their pragmatism, coupled with a peculiar persistence, vision and political commitment, has for some time left the way for a lasting peace in their region, unfortunately, still to be achieved. Deep thinker about the problems of the Middle East and the position of Israel in the geographical context where it is inserted, has always favored the dream of peace and coexistence among all, highlighting itself, in a geopolitical atmosphere of extreme agitation and conflict, as a man of his time, someone who, as he mentioned, belonged to an era in which the loss of a world was imposed the beginning of the construction of a new one. in this way, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Shimon Peres, addressing his family, institutions and the people of Israel felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u108	We shall proceed to the vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u109	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u110	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u111	Mr President, to indicate that we shall enter the Bureau of the vote on the vote on the two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u112	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Carla Cruz, do you ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u113	Mr President, it is in order to inform the House that we will immediately enter a statement of vote on the last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u114	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u115	Mr President, we inform you that we are going to deliver a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u116	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to vote No 132 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Valentim Xavier Pintado ( CDS-PP ). You have the floor to read, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 28 September 2016, Prof. Dr. Valentim Xavier Pintado died. throughout his life, the founder of the CDS studied, influenced and worked with several generations of Portuguese, through his civic, political and academic participation. Transmontano, born in Freixo de Espada à Cinta, graduated in Finance from the Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences of the Technical University of Lisbon and doctorate in Economics from the University of Edinburgh. He was the first Portuguese Fellow of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and was responsible for a special study on the Portuguese economy by the EFTA secretariat in 1958. His international career in OECD and EFTA has strengthened his reputation as one of the most prominent Portuguese economists. In 1969 he was invited to the Government, to the Secretary of State for Trade, and to Rogério Martins, João Salgueiro and Vasco Leónidas, constituted the so-called liberal group, with whom he also left the Government, in 1972. On 19 July 1974, he founded the CDS and was a member of his Executive Board. Professor of Public Finance at the Catholic University from 1972 to 1974, he was appointed Director of the Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences of that University and later appointed, in 1994, Vice-Director of the same University. Prof. Dr. Xavier Pintado also incorporated the Prime Minister's advisory committee for European Integration and the Banco de Portugal's advisory committee. Valentim Xavier Pintado was a man of faith, an economist dedicated to the university and, above all, Portugal. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses condolences to its family and friends for the loss of a Portuguese who has always dignified and honored our country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u118	We shall proceed to the vote. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 134 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protest and repudiation for the possible application of sanctions to Portugal through the appropriation of Community funds ( CFP ). I note that, at the request of the PSD and because there is consensus, 2 minutes will be granted to each parliamentary group to intervene. I call on Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « For several years, the people and the country have been subject to a policy of concentration and centralization of wealth, of aggravating exploitation, impoverishment and subject to taxation outside their needs and interests, particularly within the framework of the euro and the European Union, with a view to concentrating workers'and the country's resources on financial capital financing operations. The reality, however, has confirmed that not only the results announced as objectives of these measures have not been achieved, but also, as a result of these options, injustices and inequalities have worsened and the country has been economically and socially sunk. The popular expression of rejection of these policies and of the demand for their reversal has found translation in the remedies for rights and incomes approved in the new political framework resulting from the elections of 4 October 2015. The simple equation of sanctions — such as the appropriation of Community funds to be discussed in the European Parliament on 3 October — irrespective of their form, reflects an unacceptable external interference with the country and people's options and confirms a position of the European Union which seeks to make it difficult, or even prevent, the realization of those options for the replacement of rights and income. The developments in the application of sanctions to Portugal, within the framework of the so-called excessive deficit procedure, and the intentions of the European institutions to maintain unacceptable pressures with a view to conditioning the political options of Portugal and its sovereignty bodies call upon all patriots and Democrats to reject the sanctions and mechanisms associated with it. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic : 1 — Expresses its protest and repudiation by the pressures which, in the form of a threat of sanctions, aim at conditioning the political debate and the decisions to be taken only to the Portuguese people and to the national sovereignty bodies; 2 — considers that the possible suspension of European funds to Portugal constitutes a form of interference contrary to the national interest which must be rejected by the national sovereignty bodies and by the representatives of the Portuguese people in the institutions of the European Union ; 3 — Considers that the refusal of threats and pressure on Portugal should consider the rejection of the mechanisms associated with it, including the Budget Treaty, the diplomas of economic governance and the process of the European Semester. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u120	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Miguel Morgado, who has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that we could now be discussing our own motion for a protest vote, but unfortunately there was no consensus on the part of the parliamentary groups to enrich the debate today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u122	They didn't deliver it in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u123	So we will have to have this discussion next week around our own text. The position of the Social Democratic Party on this matter was, from the very first moment, the same. Any kind of sanctions, whether of a monetary nature or of a suspension of European funds, around the worsening of the excessive deficit procedure, concerning the years 2013 - 2015 were always, and in any circumstances, unfair and unjustified, i.e. unreasonable and without reason. In July, we welcome the decision of the European Commission, the only sensible decision in this process which was essentially foolish, not to apply monetary sanctions to Portugal. However, I recall that following this decision by the European Commission, the Portuguese Government has committed itself to a set of objectives for 2016 and 2017 that are very important to ensure that these sanctions are not implemented, now that European funds are suspended, which, once again, we continue to believe that they are unfair and unjustifiable. Let us hope, however, that the government will meet its responsibilities. That's what we're counting on, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u124	So, is this government responsible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u125	Finally, with regard to the vote on the CFP, which today is proposed for the vote, it is nothing more than the usual manifestation of resentment and hostility against Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u127	This deserves not only our disagreement, such as our frontal opposition, now and in the future. More: the text of the vote reveals a fatal contradiction to the Communist Party in all this discussion. The Communist Party is free — democracy gives it that right — to defend Portugal not only from the euro zone but also from the European Union. It is free from doing and must do so. But you must have the courage to be consistent with that position. If we are not to be in the European Union, then what is our unconditional right to receive European funds?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u128	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u129	This contradiction, the PCP has no courage to admit. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u130	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Miguel Morgado here made a repetition of the exercise, which yesterday the PSD and the CDS have done, to try to escape the discussion on the defence of the national interest and what it serves. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We realize that we want to escape the responsibilities of the PSD itself, and also the CDS, not only with regard to the situation that the country is going through, but above all with the double game that the PSD and the CDS have made about this matter. You not only make an appeal for non-application of sanctions, but at the same time rub the hands of content to twist for Portugal to be punished, in order to be able to create difficulties which today are measures for the replacement of rights and incomes, because that is your real objective. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, they make this double speech to say that they are against the sanctions, but at the same time they twist so that they are applied to Portugal. [[PCP applause.]] But they also do another double game. They play the game of those who protest against sanctions, but at the same time they are in favour of the picture that allows Portugal to be sanctioned, be subject to these blackmail and pressure operations to prevent measures that are positive to the workers and to the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u132	Shame on you, Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u133	Don't accuse the PS why?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u134	The gentlemen. Members of both the PSD and the CDS have to be exposed once and for all. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We understand how uncomfortable they are with the proposal that the CFP brings here. It is because the proposal confronts you with these contradictions that it requires you to be exposed to this double game that you have done against the interests of the country, against the interests of the workers and the Portuguese people. We know, Mr. Miguel Morgado, and we have no illusion, that the positioning of the CFP is coherent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u135	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u136	... is a positioning that puts the underlying issues at the point where they should be put. We also know that in the Assembly of the Republic over the years and not only the PSD and the CDS, but also the PS, in many circumstances, and in the issues that are crucial to European construction, have not accompanied the positioning of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u137	Luckily!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u138	We have no illusions about that. On some of the subjects that we bring here, we will continue to beat ourselves by them until the Portuguese realize that, in fact, the path cannot be the one that has been followed and that they must support the proposals that the CFP makes. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u139	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u140	I conclude, Mr. President. One thing you do not get rid of, which is that today you are faced with your contradictions and once again you stand against the national interest, against the interests of the Portuguese workers and people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u141	Let's move on to the vote... [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Pedro Mota Soares was registered for an intervention. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, on this subject, said whenever the application of any penalty to Portugal was unfair and unjustified. It was unfair, because Portugal met, it effectively achieved its goals; it was unjustified, because it meant forgetting the enormous sacrifice that the Portuguese people, together, had been able to do to ensure that it was fulfilled. In fact, this Parliament has already acknowledged it and voted on a draft resolution which, curiously, makes this repudiation. This draft resolution was not only unanimous because the Portuguese Communist Party refused to accept a factual expression and, yes, would have given strength to the position of the Portuguese State within and outside borders to defend its interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u144	It's true! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u145	It was the Portuguese Communist Party that broke that same unanimity and weakened the position of the Portuguese State. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS continues to make clear in this matter the defence of Portugal and Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u146	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u147	It's not fake, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u148	We will undoubtedly be against any suspension of funds. We say this here, we say it in Brussels and we will work constructively with all those who want to help the Portuguese State so that this suspension does not happen. But there is, in fact, a line that separates us and we thought also separates the Socialist Party from the Portuguese Communist Party. The Portuguese Communist Party is against the European Union, against Portugal's membership of the euro, and, of course, in this sense, it is also against Portugal receiving Community funds, because Portugal would not be in the European Union by your will. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Here was used an expression that I now want to return to the Portuguese Communist Party. Mr João Oliveira spoke of the « fall of masks ». It is the Portuguese Communist Party that has to be unmasked here in this debate. We know very well why you are tabling this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u149	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u150	We know very well that what you mean is that any measure of the State budget is forced by Brussels, it is not an opinion, it is not a choice of the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u151	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u152	I want to tell you, Mr President, that the Portuguese Communist Party, when it voted in the State budget the increase of taxes on the Portuguese people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u153	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u154	...did not do it by obligation, did it by a choice of the Portuguese Communist Party, and that is what you have to live with. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u155	Having this precedent opened, we now have at least two more requests for speech for intervention. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on sanctions and suspension of funds to Portugal is the way the European Union tries to put its foot on a country, thinking that this country is still governed by the same right that it has been subjected for four years to a troika that has made it feel sorry, which has led us to poverty, has impoverished us, has withdrawn us from the future. But no! It's not this right that's in power anymore. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We do not look at the Community funds in the same way as the right one does, because that says everything about how they feel that Portugal is in Europe. Don't! Community funds are not a burden or a burden on us for our good behavior. They're not! It's cohesion funds. They compensate Portugal for the loss of competitiveness that has faced other countries. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They force countries like Germany and France to return to the inequality that they create in Europe — that is the difference. We do not consider them to be the reward for kneeling before the European powers, and that is the difference in perspective. [[Congratulations from BE.]] For this reason, for us the idea that the European Union can demand the suspension of Community funds to a country like Portugal is unacceptable because it stands against the sovereignty of the country and against the law of a country, even in this European Union. That's why any sanctions are unacceptable to us. But they still tell us that a sanction is the result of the governance of the PSD / CDS, well, it is to pass us twice a bill of a past that we do not want to have either in the present or in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u157	There are still two gentlemen. Members registered to intervene. Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party is, and has always been, a party to European construction. However, the Socialist Party does not present the acrylic vision that the PSD and the CDS often present in European Union matters. [[PSD protests.]] These sanctions, to be existing, are unfair and unjustified, the truth is that, but responsibility can only be imposed on the PSD/CDS government. We are talking about a period between 2013 and 2015. Who was in the government in this period was the Social Democratic Party and the CDS, the same government that had as Prime Minister the current Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, who said, among other things, that it was necessary to go beyond the troika, be more papist than the Pope and do more than the troika asked. After all, it was not enough to comply with the measures of the European Commission. The failure to comply with the excessive deficit process was the responsibility of the PSD Government and the CDS. That's clear! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was also the PSD/CDS government that presented eight amending budgets in this period — I repeat, eight amending budgets! — it was no other government. We must also not forget that the PSD/CDS government has always been defended by the European Commission and what is at stake are sanctions that, if they exist, are the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Obviously, the Socialist Party is against sanctions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The sanctions are unjust and unjustifiable, but they are the only and total responsibility of those who have been in government between 2013 and 2015. The responsibility must be borne by you, and you must assume it, because going beyond the troika meant not to meet and overcome the excessive deficit of 3%. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u159	To make the last statement, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The threat of sanctions or the suspension of Community funds in our country by the European Union is, in the perspective of the Greens, absolutely unacceptable. In good rigour, I could even tell you that we are talking about pressures that are trying to challenge a sovereign state, that they are trying to question the choices of the Portuguese and, above all, that they want to condition the political options of the Portuguese Government. The idea remains that the European Union looks aside to governments that think more about people than on the markets. The European Union seems to live with governments whose policies are based on the return of income to people and the replacement of rights, which were, in fact, removed by options from the previous Government, the PSD Government / CDS, which has followed the guidelines of the European Union itself blindly and the result of which is now in sight of everyone. After all, they now threaten with sanctions, why? Because the previous government, the PSD government / CDS, has blindly obeyed the instructions of the European Union itself. This is the cause of sanctions. Now this is absolutely unqualified and should also lead to all Portuguese being offended by these pressures and threats on the part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u161	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 134 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protest and repudiation for the possible application of sanctions to Portugal through the appropriation of Community funds ( CFP ). At the request of the PS, we shall vote on this vote by points. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from PS and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u162	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u163	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u164	Mr President, that is to say that I will present a statement of vote on vote No 134 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u165	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 30/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System adopted by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August 2013. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 274 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 49 / 2014 of 27 March regulating Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System ), and establishes the arrangements applicable to the organization and operation of judicial courts ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote on draft resolution No 460 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of priorities for reforming the new judicial map ( BE ). At the request of the PS, we will vote separately on this draft resolution. The vote is taken on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u166	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u167	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u168	Mr President, I just want to say that the PSD voted against this point in the draft resolution as it will vote against all the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u169	There is now a notice of vote by the PSD. A pre-voting notice is something new. We shall proceed to the vote on points 3 and 4 of the motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u170	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u171	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u172	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last three diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u173	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u174	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u175	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u176	Mr President, that is to say that Mr Álvaro Batista and I will present a statement of vote on the last three diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Therefore, a declaration of vote will be submitted by the bench and a declaration of vote by Members individually. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 153 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Access to health care at the Midwest Hospital Centre ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 269 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — For management at the service of the populations of the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 320 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of various measures to ensure the proper functioning of the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo, EPE ( CDS-PP ). The CFP calls for the vote on points 1 and 5 separate from the remaining points. Let us therefore vote together on points 1 and 5. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and abstained from BE, the CFP and the Greens were adopted.]] We shall now vote on points 2, 3 and 4 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted on and BE abstained.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 319 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Access to health care provided at the Tejo Hospital Centre ( PSD ). The CFP calls for points 2 and 4 to be voted on separately from the rest. Let us first vote on points 2 and 4. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and abstained from BE, the CFP and the Greens were adopted.]] Let us now vote on points 1, 3 and 5. [[When put to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted on and BE abstained.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 157 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Second Truck School in Lisbon ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 475 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Start of retraining works at the secondary school of trucks in spring 2016 / 2017 ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 480 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Second Truck School ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] For draft resolution No 477 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — A policy to defend nature at the service of the people and the country ( PCP ), the PS requested the separate vote of three groups of points : points 1 and 5, points 2 and 6 and finally points 3 and 4. Let us begin by voting on points 1 and 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on points 2 and 6. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Finally, we shall vote on points 3 and 4. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote on Bill No 243 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Creates the obligation to indicate the country of origin on the labelling in human consumption milk ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] With regard to draft resolution No 478 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to safeguard national milk production ( CFP ), the PS requested the separate vote of two groups of points, namely points 2, 4 and 6 and then points 1, 3 and 5. Let us begin by voting on points 2, 4 and 6. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP were adopted.]] We now vote points 1, 3 and 5. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 457 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government of the Republic the implementation of a pilot project on the use of air resources for the fight against fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 456 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 64 / 2012 and notwithstanding the adoption of regional measures, be directed towards the Autonomous Region of Madeira measures identical to those adopted in 2012 ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 474 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government of the Republic take urgent measures to cover the damage caused by the wave of fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 476 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen fire-fighting support mechanisms in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the populations affected by the August 2016 disaster ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 481 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Provide the military air resources affecting the territory of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which currently carry out monitoring, search and rescue missions with intervention capacity to combat forest fires ( BE ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP of the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 483 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On means of support to the Autonomous Region of Madeira with regard to forest fires ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP of the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u178	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u179	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u180	Mr President, it is only to announce that in respect of fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-30.u181	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 436 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government accompany the implementation process of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP of the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on draft law No 253 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the donation of mobile goods to museums of the Portuguese Network of Museums ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft law No 233 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August, strengthening the deterrence of illegal activity in taxi transport ( CFP ). The author withdrew his initiative in favour of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] With regard to the same replacement text, we shall vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the speciality at the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the same replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, after voting, and with this today's work, it remains to be announced that the next plenary session will take place on 6 October at 3 p.m., having as the agenda the discussion of Bill No 306 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Basic Law of the Education System ( CDS-PP ). The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 17 minutes.]]
