ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries. Before giving the Secretary the floor to account for the file, I would like to mention that the subject of the government's political declaration under Article 78 ( 2 ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic will be on private debt and capitalisation of companies and not on qualifications, as originally envisaged. This amendment deserved the consensus of all parliamentary groups and the NAP. The subject of qualifications will therefore be the subject of urgent debate required by the Government at tomorrow's plenary session. So here was an amendment agreed by all parliamentary groups. In addition, I would like to greet the PSD Parliamentary Group for holding the National Congress of the Democratic Social Party. Mr President of the PSD is not present, but it is as if he were present, because he is very well represented in the first row by the leader of the Parliamentary Group, to whom I also present my compliments. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to read the file, which seems to be long.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 147 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establish access to educational rights to salvador swimmers ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 148 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to reduce the number of students per class with a view to improving the teaching-learning process ( CFP ), 149 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation of parental responsibilities by mutual agreement with the conservatories of the civil registry in the event of dissolution of de facto unions and similar cases ( PS ), 150 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the rules for transparency and rigour in the exercise of political and high public positions and control over unjustified capital increases ( PS ), 151 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the exercise of the rights of users as enshrined in the Code of Copyright and Related Rights ( BE ), 152 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Deputies and the Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges ( BE ), 153 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amending the Statute of Members by making the system of exclusivity of Members to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), 154 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish a maximum number of students by class and by teacher in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education ( BE), and 155 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Classification and protection scheme for shops and entities with historical and cultural interest ( PS ) ; and parliamentary assessment No 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, which establishes an exceptional measure to support employment by reducing the employer's contribution rate by 0, 75 percentage points, on contributions relating to remuneration due in February 2016 to January 2017 ( CDS-PP ). The draft resolutions Nos 202 / XIII ( 1 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop all efforts with the Spanish State for the closure of the Almaraz Nuclear Central ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 203 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeals Order No 13 427 / 2015 of 20 November 2015 on strengthening the human and material resources of the emergency service network ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 204 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the principles for hospital reorganization and repeal of Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April ( CFP ) be defined, which falls to 9. the Commission, 205 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Italy ( President of the HR ), 206 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of Commission Recommendation ( EU) 2016 / 336, of 8 March 2016, on minimum standards for the protection of pigs with regard to measures to reduce the need for tail cutting ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 207 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recovery, safeguarding and public disclosure of the archives and historical espolio of the RTP-Madeira and the Funchal ( PCP ) issuing post, which falls to 12. the Commission, 208XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of measures to address the problems of pig farming ( CFP ), 209 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government finalise the implementation of the petcoke dust measures plan in the port of Aveiro ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 210 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the protected area of Monsanto ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 211 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the management of the hospitals of Anadia, Serpa and Fafe by their respective Mercy ( PSD ), 212 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by urgent intervention in the recovery of IC1, section Alcácer do Sal / Grândola ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 213 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Promotion of school success through strategic and appropriate class size ( CDS-PP ), 214 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government lay down by regulation cases where agricultural and industrial machinery, motorcycles and tractors are subject to registration, as well as allow the use of green gas oil by them ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 215 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for the strengthening of transparency in the exercise of public functions ( PS ), 216 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the progressive reduction in the number of students per class ( PS ), 217 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Measures to promote school success ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 218 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthen protection for teachers in the disease ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 219 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reform of the allocation of special education allowance ( PS ), 220 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Classification and valuation of historical stores ( The Greens ), 221 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote corporate capitalisation and the diversification of its sources of financing ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 222 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the travel of the President of the Republic to Germany ( RA President ). Mr President, there is also an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees which, because of its urgency, will have to be voted immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u3	He then has the floor to read the opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of 1. the Trade Section of the Central Court of the Comarca de Leiria, Case No. 2999 / 13.8TBLA, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. José António Silva ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, the agenda consists of three points: an up-to-date debate on the theme Panama papers, a marking of the Left Block, political declarations and, finally, a political declaration by the Government, under Article 78 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure, on private debt and corporate capitalisation. We will now start the current debate under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, required by BE, on the theme Panama papers. To open the debate, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Millionaires, football players, politicians, movie stars, prestigious banks, traffickers, terrorists or simple and respected business men, all of them are in Panama, the Bahamas or the Cayman Islands, but also in Switzerland, Luxembourg or Madeira. All with the same aim: to escape taxes and the law. And it is not worth saying that there are leaks to taxes that are lawful and others that are illegal, that there is one seal that is legitimate and another that is not, because all these operations, whether to trade drugs or to hide a bag of corrupt money, make use of legal mechanisms created for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u8	in this parallel system of banking secret, fictitious companies and ghost accounts there is no distinction between good and evil, there is no distinction between what is moral and what is immoral. All those who seek an offshore want the same: fleeing to the rules and laws that govern the lives of all others. And the others are the people, the workers, the poorest, those who have no money to access to justice, the more to escape the law. It is those who pay with their wages or with their reform the taxes that Messi did not want to pay or that Ricardo Salgado did not want to pay. And they're not the only ones! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u9	Let's not forget, sirs. Members, of the 220 Portuguese caught in schemes in Switzerland and which are listed by the President of the IMF, Christiane Largarde, have never taken care of sending to Portugal. It is difficult to know, but it is estimated that the Portuguese have EUR 69 billion in offshore and that each year the value of tax evasion reaches EUR 10 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u10	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u11	And that's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we look carefully at the scandal of Panama's documents, but we ask: what's new? Only hypocrisy can justify the surprise of those who pretend to have only now realized that, after all, offshore ones are even to escape the tax and to do money laundering and money laundering. What's new, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen? Do we not know, by any chance, how Jardim Gonçalves in the BCP used 31 offshore to manipulate the market? Oh, my God! Was there, by any chance, a commission of inquiry to these operations in 2008? Oh, my God! Do we not know, by any chance, how BPN used hundreds of offshores to orchestrate one of the biggest economic crimes that the country has ever seen? Oh, my God! Was there, by any chance, a commission of inquiry to BPN in 2009? Oh, my God! Do we not know, by any chance, the companies in the Cayman Islands that BPP used to manipulate results or make payments to administrators? Oh, my God! Do we not know, by any chance, the financing scheme set up by Escom and the Superior Council of the Espírito Santo Group to hide the commission paid by the German consortium in the business of buying submarines by the Portuguese State? Oh, my God! Was there, by any chance, a committee of inquiry in 2015 to this business? Oh, my God! Do we not finally know the offshore web mounted by the Holy Spirit Group for all kinds of operations, many of them that we do not yet know and many of them passing through Panama? Oh, my God! And do we not conclude, in this committee of inquiry, that opacity, ease of movement of uncontrollable capital and offshore are, yes, fraud instruments and were central to the fall of BES? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, whether or not it is true that one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry to BES, which was approved in this House even last year, was, and I quote, « Taxation of total transparency, with identification of transactions and its final beneficiaries whenever vehicle entities, financial intermediaries or offshore companies are involved in financial movements carried out by banking institutions(...) »? Oh, my God! So, ladies. PSD, PS, and CDS, if this is true, should not explain to the country why, days after the adoption of that report, did the Left Block proposals to end offshore transactions with unknown beneficiaries? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Shouldn't the country have an explanation, after four committees of inquiry to four bank bankruptcies and all using offshore? Oh, my God! The scandal of Panamanian documents requires us much more than a hypocritical exclamation of surprise, followed by a hypocritical declaration of impotence. We do not have illusions, we know that we cannot determine what is going on in the Bahamas, but we do not feed false hopes in so-called international coordination. Jean-Claude Juncker, before being President of the European Commission, was the Prime Minister of Luxembourg and was engaged in negotiating tax evasion schemes with the largest European banks. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions, we do not feed false hopes, but we are demanding with our country and refuse to participate in this collective farce. There are things that this Parliament can do to end offshore: at least, to begin with, it will be to approve the proposals that the Block will resubmit to force the identification of the last beneficiaries of entities that have capital in banks,... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ...to prohibit transactions with non-cooperating entities, to criminalize illicit enrichment and to tax heavy offshore transactions. We don't ignore the elephant in the room either. Portugal has its own offshore. Madeira has been known internationally as a paradise specializing in the manipulation of the accounts of numerous companies by this outside world. It is necessary to separate what are legitimate incentives and due to an outermost zone from what are completely unjustified instruments of tax and legal benefit. Madeira's citizens can no longer be hostage to their own offshore, used as blackmail for the lack of support given to Madeira to overcome its level of underdevelopment and poverty. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Finally, Mr President, and finally, it is urgent to provide tax and criminal research units with financial and human resources, but also with the political will necessary to make the fight against fraud and tax evasion a priority. on the other hand, there are the world's largest banks, powerful lawyers' offices and renowned consulting companies; on the other hand, there must be much more than mere declarations of intent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u13	I ask you to conclude, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u14	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with an appeal. The appeal that the Left Block today brings to the Assembly of the Republic, in the heat of the biggest financial scandal, probably of the century, is this: apart from the easy indignation, this case must cause the courage not to let everything remain in it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u15	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We still know little about the real size of values that are diverted to offshore, as little knows about what interests concerns information about Panama, taking into account its partial disclosure by the international consortium of journalists funded almost exclusively by large American corporations. That is, there are much more companies dedicated to money laundering and hiding, besides Mossack Fonseca, as well as many more companies and people involved in these circuits, in addition to those that have already been revealed. The dissemination of the so-called "papers of Panama" reveals a small part of the obscure circuit of crime, trafficking in arms, drugs, human beings, economic crime, the looting of banking institutions, money laundering, the financing of terrorism, the escape from taxes and the diversion of wealth. The EUR 2 million identified in this information represents a value greater than the wealth produced in Portugal in the last 10 years and is only a small portion of the real value circulating through this complex offshore mesh. The use of offshores, with the practices associated with them, are not, however, an irregularity of the capitalist system, are, yes, its integral part and correspond to the ultimate objective of capital accumulation capitalism. For this reason, for the PCP, the problem of offshores is not new and we never expected even for disclosures like those that have now occurred to present proposals. Only at the end of the past legislation, the CFP proposed a national and international plan for the extinction of offshores, the limitation and prohibition of financial or commercial transactions with offshores and the creation of a technical unit to ensure the final beneficiaries of that entity, which served as a hiding place for the plundering of the bank Espírito Santo. Today, the CFP has submitted a request to the Banco de Portugal to be provided with the memorandums on the internal control system for the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism throughout the Portuguese financial system. And today we will deliver the updated and improved versions of the draft resolution on the adoption of the national and international plan for the extinction of offshore and the draft resolution aimed at the establishment of a technical unit for the clearance of beneficiaries of the financial flows that read the national bank. The globalization of capitalism, the permanent and obscure circulation of capital, to which many call only globalization, facilitates and promotes accumulation, makes it difficult or impossible to control, especially when, as is the case, supervision does not pass from a farce to reassure the most naive. But the overall nature of the problem cannot justify complacency. It is up to each people, each State, to block in their space the mechanisms that allow the escape. A state at the service of the powerful and the rich facilitates the flight of capital, leaving only the poor to pay the taxes. A state at the service of the people prevents the flight of capital so that powerful people pay taxes like the other citizens. A state at the service of the powerful closes the eyes to money laundering and still promotes entrepreneurs, accruals and bankers as exemplary citizens. A State serving the people prevents economic crime and places enrichment at the expense of others' work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u17	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first note we want to leave in this debate is that the Greens have always been against the existence of tax havens and have always claimed their end. On a number of occasions, in this plenary, we have had the opportunity to express our position on this matter. Offshores are the image of the injustice that reigns in the system and this is a reality we have long known. That is why the scandal now coming to the public is not quite a surprise. We already know a lot about tax havens, including in the European Union, and we know a lot about what they serve and who they serve. For a long time now, we know that offshorers are only used to create and host fictitious companies where money is made of little worth and even criminal origin. We also know that people who use tax havens have as their aim not to pay taxes, to escape the law, to escape payment of their tax obligations and to hide money so often from unclear business, dirty business. We also know that money circulating in offshore is money stolen from the economy and taxpayers and that who uses these mechanisms are the great fortunes and the most powerful. We know all this and it's been a long time. Therefore, the great virtue of the complaints that have now become public was to give not only an idea to the world of the size and severity of this problem and of this immorality but also bring the matter up to the global table, making it clear to everyone that the people who work and people with less income are forced to pay their taxes, while a minority — the money lords — are in the luxury of paying nothing, getting rid of that responsibility, which is to pay taxes like the others. It's an absolutely immoral cheat. According to data from Banco de Portugal, from 2014 to 2015, Portuguese money placed in offshore increased by 13 %. We are talking about almost EUR 10 billion. But the wealth of undeclared national businesses or citizens could reach EUR 69 billion. It is a lot of money, especially if we take into account that the numbers refer to a period of crisis, a crisis, by the way, only for some. There is therefore a need for a serious fight against this fraud, which allows a few to live in tax havens and for most people to live in a real and painful fiscal hell. But in addition to this injustice and this tax immorality, it is still necessary to take into account that tax havens have been the stage of some of the events of the crisis we are experiencing today, such as bank bankruptcy or large-scale fraud. It should be borne in mind that these activities are often associated with the clandestine economy, tax evasion, tax fraud, organised crime, money laundering and sometimes many practices that weaken global stability, such as the drug business and even the arms business. And it is worse if we bear in mind that this real casino economy is inseparable from the worsening social inequalities, poverty and unsustainability of the economic model that is taking place in the world. Here, we will always remember the scandalous processes of BCP, BPP and BPN, which indicated practices related to companies based exactly in tax havens and whose invoice, in some cases, ended up being paid by Portuguese taxpayers. in our perspective, tax havens have to be looked at as a foreign element to our democracy, which only serves for great fortunes to create highly developed mechanisms to escape the law, to escape taxes or to proceed with money laundering.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u20	That is why the Greens defend the end of tax havens and the end of Madeira's financial square. If it is true that a government cannot impose the end of tax havens outside its borders, it is also true that any government can and should have the obligation to channel its efforts, among the other States and international organizations, to seek measures and find solutions to end tax havens. It makes no sense that there are absolutely untouchable areas, where financial supervision does not enter, where judicial cooperation is at the door and where the States themselves prefer to pretend that there is not or then that it is all right and that it is part of the system, which is so and ready! It does not make sense, nor do citizens understand, how a mere taxpayer who forgets his tax obligations is persecuted by the State, but when it comes to the great fiscal crime, states pretend nothing happens. It can't be! There must be ways to put an end to this true and monstrous sin with consent. To that end, there is political will and courage. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u21	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any more entries, so if no Member does register, I will conclude this item on the agenda. Given that we are debating a topic of this importance, ending the discussion because there are no inscriptions will be completely absurd, not to say another adjective. [[Pause.]] You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I begin by thanking the Left Block, the CFP and the Green Party for bringing this issue to debate, because it is a matter of great importance, as is evident. The taxes we pay are the price of civilization that we have and therefore there is no greater crime against citizenship and democracy than the flight to taxes and, above all, the transfer of tax obligations to the generality of workers and businesses. But there is one thing we cannot do either: this scandal, which was known yesterday, cannot be served only for indignant drawbacks and imperishable requests. If there is one thing that these documents show is that nothing will be done in combating fraud, tax evasion and offshores that do not go through a strict international joint to combat this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is an illusion that individual bravery from this or that country, this or that Member State, can solve a problem that concerns everyone. This calls on all of us, and needs, in particular, two fundamental measures: the first is an effective penalty for transfers to tax havens that do not cooperate with tax authorities, in order to share information. Therefore, all initiatives, since increased tax on transfers to tax jurisdictions that do not share information with tax authorities, should be supported and aggravated as far as possible. The other measure is intended to ensure the existence of collaboration and exchange of information. It is a multilateral response, and it is mainly through exchanges and information sharing agreements, as well as cooperation between tax authorities from different countries. Without the collaboration of all and without the search for full transparency in transfers, nothing really important will be done. So, with regard to yesterday's news and the size of the scandal, we can never forget that we are talking only about a company between many and a tax jurisdiction among many. What we have learned in recent days is only, as it is evident, a very, very, very small part of the problem. So here we have a big problem that goes far beyond the scandal of Panama papers, but we can never fall into the illusion that individual withdrawals or outrages of this or of that Member, or of this or of that parliamentary group, solve the problem. The problem exists and requires the participation and multilateral commitment of several countries. I ask the Government, since it is present : what are the plans it has, firstly, for the control of transfers to tax havens that do not share information and therefore do not allow tax authorities to monitor and prevent transfers and penalise them, if any? What initiatives are being taken by the Government, in conjunction with other countries and with the European Union, to effectively share information that will enable the identification of these transfers and the measures necessary to prevent them in a timely manner? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u23	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u24	Mr President, the first thing I want to do here is to separate water: we cannot allow, within this discussion, confusion about the characterization of what is an offshore and what is the International Trade Centre of Madeira. The Madeira International Business Centre was mentioned in several interventions, not by Mr. João Galamba, but in previous interventions, and I want to draw attention to the fact that the Madeira International Business Centre is not an offshore one. And we're not the ones who say it, it's the OECD, and it's the European Union that says it. He would also like to draw attention to the fact that this International Centre for Madeira's Business is the most important instrument for raising investment and tax revenue. Only in 2013, the Autonomous Region of Madeira raised EUR 123 million in revenue and, in 2014, EUR 134 million in tax revenue, which is not a small thing, revenue that has been used precisely for promoting development in the education and health sectors. On the other hand, it is false that the Madeira International Business Centre does not guarantee employment. There are 4000 jobs, 4000 families linked, directly and indirectly, to the International Business Centre of Madeira. Moreover, the Madeira International Business Centre was in 2015 responsible for collecting 12 % of foreign investment in Portugal, which is not a small one either. We still have 5000 jobs, if we count the crews of ships registered at the Sea, International Register of Madeira Ships. I therefore want to make an appeal here not to confuse two realities, which are completely different and which we must preserve, which are jobs and economics, in addition to taxes that are guaranteed, precisely in the context of the activity of the International Centre for Madeira Affairs. I also draw attention to the fact that the XIX Constitutional Government, the former Government of the PSD / CDS-PP, despite all the pressures to the contrary, kept this Panama offshore on the list of tax havens. Although most or all of our European partners have removed this tax haven from the list of tax havens, Portugal has kept it as a tax haven, it has not wavered in this matter, precisely because it rejects the rules of opacity and other untransparent practices. I would also like to say that the PSD defends a fight, without difficulty, against greed, corruption, money laundering, trade in influence, unjustified enrichment, all and any form of diversion of financial resources, absolutely, essential for the promotion of economic, social and cultural development. Not only are resources diverted from Portuguese society, but we often defend the implementation of legal instruments here, which would enable us to fight corruption more effectively. I support Mr Galamba when he argues that the path must be multilateral and that it must, above all, combat opacity and establish clear and transparent rules with regard to capital flows. I draw attention, globally, because this is an issue that has been affecting us in recent years. We know that there is an exit from capital, from the capital that is already scarce in Portugal, for tax havens and often associated with illicit and criminal practices, which we reject absolutely. But I also want to make a global note. International reports conclude that, for each dollar of support to developing countries, 10 dollars are out of these countries without such flows being tracked, which clearly affects the development and promotion of humanitarian conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u25	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. I draw attention to the fact that the PSD has adopted a resolution in the last Parliament precisely defending this position. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u27	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The subject which the Block on the Left here today brings to debate is indisputably current, as the debate itself characterizes. The question is not to be, or not, today, the difference is established in the approach that we make of the present and the importance of the matter: either we put everything in the same bag, or we are able to distinguish what is currently relevant, which deserves our attention and our action, and what, of course, is just the demagogy of those who are looking for each minute in order to do it. [[BE's protests.]] I would say that the Left Block started by putting everything in the same bag in this debate, but it would be unfair!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u29	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u30	This is because the Left Block, being Venezuela so close to Panama, puts a part completely out of the bag. [[CDS-PP Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u31	You're watching a lot of Spanish TV!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u32	Everything is discussed about Panama, but Bolivarian funding to parties competing in democratic regimes is not a matter for the Left Block to want to know! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] There are parties that dispute elections, which are funded by other countries where people go hungry so that someone in democratic Europe can be defending certain types of ideas, that the Left Block feels very well and has absolutely no problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u33	It's the same for us! What is crime, what is misuse of money, what is diverted from the regime that has to prevail in states of law and democracy must be penalized and treatment, which is, of course, negative. Today's debate is also about the border with which we have to translate into practice what we stand for, and that is what happened to the previous government. The former Government has from the outset defended a strategy to encourage information exchange agreements, as a mechanism to bring within the system what could be outside the system. No one can ignore that such relevant agreements have been established with Switzerland, which has allowed a number of developments that would never have happened if this information exchange agreement had not been made. Therefore, we have much more practice and much more consequence than the Left Block in combating this concealment and therefore we do not receive lessons from the Left Block in this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u34	You saw the fiscal amnesty for Ricardo Salgado!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u35	Mrs Deputy, when you explain the 7 million that the Venezuelan regime has given to Podemos, you will have the legitimacy to do this debate. Until then, you'll realize you're in deficit. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Another very important question is that we know how to distinguish the wheat from the juicy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u36	This is all joy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u37	Putting the Madeira International Business Centre at Panama level or other tax havens is not only ignorance as a deep attack on national interest. The Madeira International Business Centre is a relevant strategic option of competitiveness policy in Portugal, which allows job creation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u38	Panama too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u39	... that allows the attraction of investment and that allows the collection of taxes, because it is not an offshore system, it is an onshore system, where taxes are collected and where, of course, that recipe exists. Therefore, you do not say that Madeira is condemned because, if you have this doubt, ask the Madeirans whether or not it is important to maintain the Madeira International Business Centre. On the other hand, we must also, and ultimately, know what the right options and the wrong choices are in the choice of public and fiscal policies. The greatest enemy of a balanced tax regime is the tax regimes in which confusion is such, where taxes are so high, where taxes are so high that, obviously, any citizen feels suffocated. A simple tax regime with a good relationship with the taxpayer, with attractive tax rates attracts investment, promotes growth and attracts employment. And that's all the Left Block has ever defended. That's all the Left Block has always opposed. Our coherence—and we are sure of that—is based on two pillars, that the Left Block cannot subscribe: on the one hand, the fight against crime is made in the logic that "we know very well what is one thing and what is another and we do not mix everything", and on the other hand, our fiscal policy promotes investment, does not push it away, does not reject it and does not condemn the country not only not to have investment as to have no employment, but to condemn the country not to have a situation similar to the regimes that finance your friends' parties. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u40	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u41	Mr President, it is good to note that, in the initial speeches of this debate, something that I believe deserves consensus: this reality, which is not new, that we have not discovered this week, that there are legal regimes in the world in which heritage and income are hidden, favours the concealment of crime, in particular organised crime, economic crime and corruption. It favours the financing of terrorism and also the avoidance of taxes, which then obliges States to overburden, with higher taxes, those citizens who do not have the possibility to hide their heritage and income under these schemes, thus creating a separation between those who do not pay what is due as a contribution to the common good and those who pay a little more, proportionally, in relation to what would be due. We must also note that this reality for decades, which we have not discovered this week — this week we are only having the revelation of the intimate details of a reality that we knew existed — will not end with any unilateral pronouncement from Portugal or any other country. We know that the only way to reduce and, hopefully, eliminate this phenomenon is through international cooperation. But this does not mean, of course, that we should wait passively for international cooperation to take place. Our country must be an active player in the same international cooperation. And that is what this Government has done, which, over the months in office, has signed the international information exchange agreement between tax administrations in relation to multinationals, and has brought to this House, in the State budget, which has been approved, the country-by-country reporting regime on incomes of multinationals as well as the system of exchange of financial information between tax administrations. In addition, on a proposal from the Socialist Party, an amendment to the General Tax Law has been included in the Budget which allows the tax administration to monitor more particularly the large singular taxpayers at risk of tax failure, in particular those who have the means to place their incomes and assets abroad. This line that the Government has pursued will not naturally remain here. This year we will still be in a position to legislate or bring legislation to the Assembly of the Republic to identify the beneficial beneficiaries in the creation of legal persons — another relevant effort of international cooperation — and to transpose the remaining matters of the directive on money laundering and financing of terrorism and, even in the coming weeks, to legislate in order to put the information exchange system into operation. Of course, this was what we were planning to do, but this adds to the reality of this week, and there may be a number of relevant information regarding Portuguese taxpayers in these so-called Panama Papers. It is our conviction that the tax administration has sufficient legal means to act if there is any relevant information. It is the problem in these matters, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is always the existence and detection of relevant information, and hence the importance of information exchange mechanisms. In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm the Government's commitment not only to seeking all relevant information such as the use of all legal mechanisms in order to be taxed on those incomes and assets that were to be imposed in Portugal and whose concealment is now detected. We will also try to bring all omissions of tax duties, in particular declarative duties, which are now revealed through this process, to the latest consequences. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u42	I have the floor for a second speech by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Neves, who uses time kindly given by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to strengthen, so that it is clear, that Madeira is not an offshore, Madeira is not a fiscal paradise and Madeira is not a financial square. Madeira is a well-regulated and well-supervised business centre. I would like to tell you that, in addition to the OECD and the European Union, several Portuguese institutions also accompany the International Centre for Madeira Affairs in full detail. I refer to the Portuguese fiscal authority, social security, the Banco de Portugal and the National Register of Collective Persons, which accompany the details of the International Centre for Business of Madeira, such as the Conservatories of the Commercial Register, the Government of Madeira and the National Government, in addition to the European Union, the OECD, the World Bank and the European Central Bank. That is why it is a huge irresponsibility, an enormous ignorance and an enormous evil saying that the Madeira International Business Centre is an offshore area. It's not! in Madeira, at the International Business Centre of Madeira, we have no benefits to financial activity. It is impossible to benefit from financial activities at the Madeira International Business Centre. More: all companies at the Madeira International Business Centre are registered companies in Portugal, are companies formed in Portugal, under huge supervision,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u44	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u45	...under enormous control and under huge inspection. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u46	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a difference between Madeira's financial market and Madeira's free zone. I would like to give two examples. They certainly know two Spanish football players, one called Xabi Alonso and one called Mascheerano—I think they are quite well known. These two large Spanish entrepreneurs created two companies in Madeira's financial market, two companies that paid 4 % of IRC. But for that, they were forced to create a job, and they created it. They created a job to whom they paid 70 € per month. If this is the kind of investment Madeira attracts, I'll go there and I'll be back! Open... [[Congratulations from BE.]] I'm sure they also know suite 605, which was a room with 100 m2 that had hundreds of companies, including tobacco and watchmaking companies, who created a fictional company in Madeira to be able to overpower Madeira and pay less taxes, when no merchandise ever passed there. Do you know what the consequence of this is? It's because Madeira's GDP is fakely inflated. [[It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u48	And do you know what the consequences are? Madeira loses much more in cohesion funds than it earns with tax evasion — I repeat, it loses much more in cohesion funds. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Panama's offshore also creates jobs, and if you are going to talk to the Panama authorities, they will tell you that it is very important for Panama's development. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u49	Still, it's an offshore. It's an offshore! And no one is saying that the offshore of Panama and Madeira have the same kind of characteristics, but we cannot close our eyes to what exists in our territory. And do not confuse, I repeat, tax incentives to Madeira with the fiscal paradise or financial square that exists in Madeira, because that is confusing the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u50	We're not confused, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u51	Mr. João Almeida, my party received no funding from anyone, nor can we receive it. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u52	That was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u53	But now, instead of being entertained with false news, explain to us why it is that it protects Angola's corrupt regime, for example. To speak in coherence, explain to us, then, because it protects Angola's corrupt regime and then makes false accusations to the other parties. [[Congratulations from BE.]] False! False accusations! Mr. João Almeida, also the reminder that there was a committee of inquiry to BES and now there are those who want to investigate the issue of offshores, but there was also a commission of inquiry to a very poorly explained submarine business, where several offshores passed. So, to talk about offshore, let's talk about coherence and morals, and the CDS doesn't have one thing or another, no matter how much you want to rip your clothes now. Mr. João Galamba, one thing has to be said: whoever commands the world and has the power to end offshores has no interest in doing so. He who rules the world has offshore profit with them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u55	That is why the President of the European Commission set up tax evasion schemes in the country he ruled, which is Luxembourg, and that is why there are several prime ministers, and among them the Russian oligarchy, involved in offshore. So we're not gonna wait for these people to end the offshores. But it is also not worth confusing the debate, as it has been done here, not to discuss the fundamental question, which is: what can we do, within our powers, to control and minimize this problem? No one wants to voluntarily end the offshores in the world, nor do you think he can do it with a magic pass. This is to reduce the debate. And by the way, it is now to reduce the capacity of this party to believe that someone comes here, voluntarily, to end the offshore ones. But to begin with, there are things that cannot be done and there are other things that can be done. I am going to give an example of something that cannot be done: RERT (Exceptional Regime of Tax Regularization ), tax losses and tax amnesty to whom you have escaped taxes. Three RRRTs were made in Portugal, the last of which was made by the Government which Mr. João Almeida incorporated, who gave Ricardo Salgado a pardon and a tax amnesty. [[All right! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u56	Again the coherence! Furthermore, the commission that constructor José Guilherme paid Ricardo Salgado via an offshore returned to Portugal with a RRRT approved by his government, RRRT which not only gave a tax pardon as an amnesty gave. [[CDS-PP protests.]] What does this mean? It means that Ricardo Salgado will never be able to be judged by those operations because they were kept confidential to the Banco de Portugal in a tax amnesty regime. Thus, RERT is an example of a bad policy for policies against tax evasion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u57	I don't agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u58	But there is another example: IRC reforms that facilitate aggressive tax planning to multinationals, such as your government. And so far I have a report from the European Commission reading that Portugal facilitates aggressive tax planning to multinationals. It is not good news to fight tax evasion and once again your government will have much to say about it. There are, however, things that can be done. The Left Block presented here, in the past, measures to register financial transactions, so that we can know who are the recipients of the transactions, so that banks cannot send money to offshores that are on the black list of offshores. None of these measures, although very reasonable, had voted in favour, i.e., lack of votes to approve them. I therefore hope that next time these measures return to Parliament they will be able to vote in favour of all the banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u59	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u60	I will finish, Mr. President. It is that if they read them carefully and without prejudice that they always have against those who are against the offshore but who never have in relation to their own offshores, if they do, they will see that they make a lot of sense and perhaps even improve the legal framework that exists on the subject. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u61	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor on behalf of the CFP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The market economy, so praised mainly by some parties in this House, and the bank in the hands of privates do not supposedly pose a danger to the public interest because they are supervised. Therefore, there are independent entities—independent—no one knows well why, independent of the public interest, I do not know whether they are independent of the market and financial institutions—that they supervise.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u63	They weren't before!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u64	But the same people, the same parties that tell us that we can be calm with a financial system in private hands are those who authorize and legitimize a whole offshore mesh that works as a parallel universe, where there is no supervision. If independent supervision is already an ambush in the sight of all and a farce, in this parallel universe constituted by offshore, then there is not even supervision. So all the capital that passes from the supervised perimeter to this perimeter runs to any control mesh—and the control mesh, as we know, is no longer a big deal. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that offshores are very bad but nothing can be done, because it is a very distant thing, it is very distant and must be an international thing... Mrs. Members, States, peoples, assemblies, such as this have the mechanisms to approve laws and instruments to prevent the use of these offshore centres. We can't end an offshore in Panama, it's true. But we can prevent and prohibit transfers to these offshores, we can prevent and prohibit trade transactions with that offshore and, therefore, we use these mechanisms. The CFP proposed a plan for national and international action with a view to the extinction of offshores and the PSD and the CDS voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u65	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. The CFP proposed the establishment of a technical unit to search for the money that came out of the BES and which read the Portuguese people in many billions of euros and the PSD and CDS voted against. The CFP proposed the limitation and prohibition of trade and financial transactions with non-cooperating offshores and the PSD and CDS voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u67	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u68	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr Galamba has told us now that this does not go there with high-profile proclamations and outrages, to the newspaper news issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u69	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u70	It is true, Mr. Member, and that is why much more than exalted indignation the CFP has been bringing, for several years, to the House, proposals for it to be here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u71	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u72	...not in an intangible sphere that the Portuguese cannot control, but here, in the Assembly that the Portuguese have elected, that the problems of flight and money laundering are solved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u73	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This is a debate about Panamapapers but we ended up talking more about Madeira's International Business Centre. I would like to say to Mrs Mariana Mortágua that the question she raised on the gross domestic product of the Autonomous Region of Madeira is a completely outdated issue, as I think you know. Eurostat has changed in its entirety the form of accounting for public accounts and this situation does not occur today in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. The second aspect I wanted to mention is that Madeira has never been on the blacklist of offshore...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u75	Nobody said that! Don't confuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u76	...and therefore to confuse what is happening in Panama with what is the situation in Madeira is not, in our view, good practice. Finally, and as regards unilateral positions, as we have heard here, for example, about the International Centre for Madeira Affairs, they do not help anything to solve the fundamental issue. We fully agree with the deepening, strengthening and ensuring greater transparency in this type of square, and I am sure that this is what Madeirans will also do, i.e. support measures in this regard. The Madeira International Business Centre was born more than 25 years ago in the region to solve a problem of regional development, which meant betting on the diversification of the economy, increasing its revenue and wealth...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u77	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u78	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, the Madeira International Business Centre was born more than 25 years ago in the region to solve a regional development problem, which meant betting on the diversification of the economy, increasing its revenue and wealth and increasing employment. That is what has happened in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, that is the way we must continue to do and the Socialist Party will certainly do as it has done so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u79	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to point two of our agenda for political declarations. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Republican principle is a structural principle of our constitutional model which must be called, firstly, to conform to the regime applicable to holders of public office, whether they hold sovereign bodies, other political positions or any other public office. This principle should be oriented around three fundamental axes: the prevalence of service to the republic and civic virtue in the exercise of functions; the creation of conditions for the exercise of fundamental rights of access and the exercise of public office in conditions of freedom and equality; and the definition of rules that help and ensure that no one is benefited or harmed by the exercise of public functions. The Socialist Party views this theme as central to restoring confidence between citizens and institutions and to preventing phenomena such as corruption, strengthening the quality of democracy and assuming, before voters, this commitment in its last electoral manifesto. in this sense, more than just foresee the introduction of avulsive or punctual measures to deal with situations generating greater media attention at a given time, it is effectively necessary an extended and structured reflection of the problem, convening for the parliamentary debate the subject by setting up a possible committee to strengthen transparency. This wish seems to us the way to deal with and solve a set of problems which have long been expressed and identified, in an open manner, extended to all institutions within and outside Parliament. The dispersion of legislation on this subject creates a labyrinth of difficult interpretation and perception by the citizens and the fact that we have divergent forecasts for different office holders does not contribute to this clarity, such as the fact that we have many matters still omitted in national legislation, when other States, the European Union and international institutions and organisations have made a breakthrough that must be accompanied, in particular with regard to lobbying, good transparency practices or the acceptance of suggestions made by the Council of Europe within the framework of GRECO ( Group of States against Corruption ). Only an integrated vision, only a vision that gives a comprehensive and comprehensive response to the problem, which allows for the revision of today's dispersed regimes and which must, as far as possible, be clear and uniform, ensure responses that restore citizens' confidence in democratic institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is with this wish that we stand before the House today and in the debates that will take place in the coming weeks. We have this medium- and long-term objective, this mobilising objective of all those with us who want to do this debate and I believe that this will exists in civil society and exists among the other parties with parliamentary representation. Nor can we forget who was present, who said 'present' when the call rang in this and previous legislatures. That is why the Socialist Party does not forget what it presented in the past, particularly with regard to the strengthening of the rules in force today, and also presents in addition to this package which goes through the creation of a committee where possible a set of measures relevant to the immediate improvement of the same legislation. In fact, we must look again at and revisit the list of high public positions which must be subject to these wealth control, incompatibilities control and the strengthening of the register of interests. On the other hand, there is a growing consensus about the need to review the rules on which the exercise of functions may occur after the cessation of public activity by former holders of government positions, and it is also now increasingly clear that there is a growing consensus to extend the obligations of transparency, the ability to promote registers of interest also in the authorities beyond what exists today in the Assembly or in the Constitutional Court, and above all, there is an increasing consensus, in particular, on the need to revise the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders, in particular the regime applicable to Members of the Assembly of the Republic. Indeed, it is a matter of meeting such a need to separate water from the public and private, between the public interest and the safeguard that other interests will not contaminate this same public interest, which is what is placed on the table at this moment in our democracy and a little across Europe. Basically, we look at areas where there is a consensus, where it is possible to identify what can be done in this area today. If we look at what should be the intervention of a political officer in cases where the State or any public entity is involved, the Socialist Party believes that we should start by saying that the Party should not have intervention as an expert, consultant or arbitrator, it should not have intervention as a consultant or an adviser in any dispute that may involve the State or a public entity, it should not be able to exercise a judicial mandate, impediments that should be extended to the companies that constitute in the exercise of liberal activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At the same time, it is also important to bear in mind that public and private interests often intertwine, necessarily. It is therefore essential that the provision of services, the existence of paid work, subordinated work in entities that will enter into contracts with public service dealers, which are part of a public-private partnership, represents a new wall of separation between public interest and private interest, between those who are performing a function as representative of the Nation and who, of course, can freely engage as private but should not confuse these two spheres. The degree of intensity of this mesh and the ability to improve the perception that citizens have of the exercise of public activities should therefore be a priority. And if I may, it is possible to ensure that between the public and private 'Oceans' it continues to separate them a solid isthmus and not a 'Canal of Panama', of permitivity, confusion and potential conflict of interest between two 'Oceans' which must in fact be on each side. Finally, in this same seat, the Socialist Party believes that it is also time to revisit an issue which in the previous legislature deserved, not once but twice, the rejection by the Constitutional Court of proposed solutions and which were incompatible with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u81	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u82	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is essential to have quality rules for the control of wealth and prevention of corruption and unjustified accumulation of capital increases, but we must do so in accordance with the Constitution, as we said in the parliamentary debates held in the previous legislature. Therefore, we again present a clear project that criminalizes the absence of delivery of the return and also sets out clearly when this intentionally omits or forgery data present...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u83	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u84	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, we again present a clear project that criminalizes the absence of delivery of the return and which sets out clearly when it intentionally omits or falsifies present data. That is why we need to go back to the subject, but in the exact terms in which the Constitutional Court has marked our intervention map. In many cases, we don't need to reinvent the wheel. In fact, Senators of the former Roman Republic were already forbidden to enter into contracts with the State or to engage in banking activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u85	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u86	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Basically, it is not about creating new solutions but about ensuring that the formulas that preside over the guarantee of republican ethics are updated and are able to face the 21st century. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u87	Mr. Deputies, three are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u88	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I believe that the topic that you brought here in your political statement is a subject of greatest relevance. Moreover, a debate is scheduled for Friday on a set of diplomas presented by various parliamentary groups which intend to discuss the issues of transparency, the Statute of Members, incompatibilities. In fact, it seems to me that we should do so without demagogy, populism and a lot of responsibility. That is why, Mr President, I do not want to put this debate here in advance, which is, as I said, scheduled for Friday, I would like to ask you a few questions on the subject of transparency and, above all, a sentence that I have recorded from your speech. Mr Deputies said, well, that we must do everything to separate the waters from the private interests and the public interest. In this regard, I would like to remind you of five cases, and I know that you are not going to do what I have seen others do when they are confronted with these issues, which is to shake the water from the hood. Knowing him well, as I know, I am sure that the honourable Member will go directly to the issue and will give me the answers I want. The first question I would like to ask you, for the sake of transparency, is the following: has the honourable Member already changed his mind about the external audit that the PSD proposed on the Banif case? Is it or not a circumstance that would help all Portuguese understand, independently and impartially, what happened in BANIF? Is it in favour of transparency or not? Mr President, in favour of transparency, the separation of public interest and private interests, and even that which must be the good conduct of public decision-makers, I would like to ask you if you were well aware of the way Dr. António Lamas was replaced at the Cultural Centre in Belém. Is it a matter that pays for the transparency and procedures of the State or not? I would also like to ask you, in favour of transparency, whether you are already able to explain to the House and to the country whose mandate, whose mandate, in what sense, is that Dr. Diogo Lacerda Machado is an intermediary of the State in a set of businesses that have come to the public in the media.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u89	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u90	I will now finish, Mr President. And about Dr. Diogo Lacerda Machado, because this name reminds me of the TAP issue, I wanted to ask you, in favour of transparency, if you also noticed what happened with the Barraqueiro Group and with the Port Metro. Is it in favour of transparency that the decision was taken by the government as it was?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u91	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u92	Mr President, I end with an appeal to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves: I ask you not to do what Mr Prime Minister has done and to answer the questions we have raised about the interference of Mr Prime Minister with the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u93	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u94	I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is appropriate to state: « Well prays Friar Thomas. Look at what he says, do not look at what he does». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u95	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u96	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, allow me to start not by your intervention but by the PSD. On the debate that the Left Block scheduled for Friday, on diplomas on matters relating to the incompatibilities of Members, we have heard the PSD say that it would not present any initiative and, rather than openly telling the truth and why it did not, it made an excuse, which was that they did not legislate on specific cases. Now, listening here to Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, what was not missing were concrete cases, and yet, Mr Deputies, because in these matters it is concrete cases that we understand how the law should be amended. So what is strange is that in the specific case of Dr. Maria Luísa Albuquerque and the clear conflict of interest the PSD does not even have a concern to present a legislative initiative. We would like to know what the PSD thinks about the matter. That would be interesting. Friday we will be here to discuss what the Left Block thinks but the PSD will, by the way, be against it and only against it because it does not want to add anything relevant to this debate. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I would like to tell you that the issue which you raised and which is also linked to the debate that we will have next Friday is of the greatest importance for the qualification of democracy. There is a blackmail about democracy, which is often right to be, about an indication, which is sometimes unknown, in order to be defended by the public interest or private interest. We see this often: in business, in appointments, in choices of representatives of the State for various positions. Anyway, we see that many times. with regard to this matter, it is necessary to move with regard to the mandate of Members. You know the position of the Left Block on the exclusivity of Members, and I would ask you to comment on this position, but we are not only going to debate this diploma, because we realize that there is another paradigm in debate in the House that is related to the question of incompatibilities in a more later manner. And on this matter we need to change the period of disgust, but also, above all, to simplify the law, ending the loopholes that always allow abuses to the law. Mr. President. — Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u97	I conclude, Mr. President. But there is a second step in the debate, and on Friday we will have the opportunity to go ahead with it, which is related to the transparency of public actors and political actors. On this subject I ask you if you follow that project that the Left Block has submitted and which will also lead to the debate in the future, about the need to create a specific entity to find out the declarations of interest, ownership, political agents, high public positions, and there will be consequences if the law is violated,... Mr. President. — Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u98	...if you lie before the law and that this can lead to the loss of mandate. It is an innovation, an advance towards what we have today and I ask for your opinion on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u99	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u100	Mr. President. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I think you do not miss an opportunity to go to what is essential in the debate. It is that on the subjects under discussion today and Friday, what we are discussing, basically, is not knowing what is the regime applicable to access to documentation or ongoing procedures, because this is known and will even be the subject of qualifying intervention during this legislature. The issues you have raised are not related to the fundamental issue that this Parliament has to discuss and that it is to know how far there is the ability to interfere in the management and the guarantee of public interest when it engages with private interests that are carried out simultaneously, and on this matter it does not leave a single question. He asked about the external audit of the Banif case, disqualifying the parliamentary function, which, by chance, has an ongoing parliamentary commission of inquiry, as if he did not care about the fact that there was an extended consensus for this investigation to be carried out. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He asked about the resignation of the President of the Cultural Centre of Belém, Eng. Lamas, forgetting that it was precisely in a parliamentary committee, a public place par excellence, transparent and transmitted live throughout the country, which Mr. Minister for Culture gave notice of the decision he was taking on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More transparent, live and live, it was surely impossible. Finally, it seeks to confuse intentionally what is clear both in the draft laws presented, or in the intervention that I have done recently, which is precisely the need to ensure that those who have intervention in processes such as those that it referred to, in which there is consultation with the State, cannot then remain in a position that potentially puts it in conflict of interest. It is this transparency that the Socialist Party has put on the agenda. It is this transparency and this need for clarification of rules that do not exist today and which has to be clear about what the Socialist Party has here today. In fact, to present something as a start of debate was what we also expected from the PSD and which, unfortunately, at least in this Friday debate, we will not have the opportunity to see, but this does not discourage us and does not close the door to what we have been trying to open. It is a committee that is the privileged place to put on the table the discussion of all these issues and for which the Socialist Party's availability, once again says so, is total, particularly in matters such as, for example, the control of multiple declarations of income, of interests, which must be made in a manner that is perceived by the citizens. Today, we have a blanket of pieces of legislation that is particularly difficult to access not only for those who are subject to it but also for those who seek to control it and consult it. Therefore, the idea of an entity that can concentrate and harmonise the way this is being voted upon deserves our acceptance and, of course, we will have all the capacity to discuss in this possible committee work. And I also say the following: concrete cases must not be the only impulse to have a discussion and therefore it seems to us that there must be time, there must be maturation, there must be the ability to hear experts and civil society, but also the non-relevant concrete cases, they also do not cease to give clear clues, generating greater or minor consensus around these matters. We can still not be tuned around the option of exclusivity, because it also raises questions about the possibility that all those who perform these functions may return to the performance of functions in the private sector or in the public sector in similar situations, that is, it is very different who, being a public official, performs functions and has the ability to re-exercise them once they have completed the representative mandate of someone who, eventually, does not have that safety dose. Therefore, this is a matter that should not be demeaning of attention, but there are cases where there is already consensus. I believe that if we look today, in particular on the subject of how the legal representation of the State and other public legal persons and the type of intervention that must be possible with disputes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u101	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u102	I conclude now, Mr President. As I said, if we look at the matter concerning the form of legal representation of the State, and other public legal persons, and at the type of intervention that there should be together with disputes involving State and other public legal persons, I believe that today's response is, and increasingly, tendingly unanimous in Portuguese society, noting that whoever is representing the Republic or another public institution cannot, either as a consultant, be as a juridical consultant, be as a mere judicial representative, have simultaneous intervention in these disputes, and must be these points of contact, of union, which should promote the search for new legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, two more are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has therefore spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u104	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, today at the time of your political statement, you brought an announcement of a package of the PS initiative on transparency, which, as you know, is the subject which is scheduled for next Friday. The CDS is not going to anticipate the Friday debate, but I would like to tell you that it is available, within the committee that will be proposed by the Socialist Party, to take a look at how there is a uniformization of the legislation dispersed and to reflect on any changes that are necessary. There is, however, a matter which must be clear. It is that this reflection should not be just a reflection of politicians, of those concerned, but it should be an open reflection of civil society so that we can hear all those who have contributed to this. There are two principles that we believe should guide the discussion on this issue. The first is that we should not argue on the basis of populism, demagogy or false morality, because, as we know, it always results in bad results...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u106	... each time it is legislated seeking to address such concerns. On the other hand, we are also clear that in particular political office holders are neither civil servants nor partisan officials. Therefore, we do not agree with the functioning of those positions, especially those of election, as is the case with the mandate of the Member State. In any case, we admit that there are matters in which we approach ourselves and matters in which we eventually separate ourselves, but we have every interest in that debate being done in a reflected manner. We realize from what Mr Deputies announced here that the PS seems to continue to be against the subject of illicit enrichment, seeking in some way to create a new type of crime which, in fact, is an already existing crime, that of false declarations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u107	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u108	As always, the CDS will be available to discuss this matter as well as others, i.e. not only the crime that you have proposed here but also the matter of illicit enrichment, and we will not have any difficulty in making this discussion, because these are subjects that are very expensive to the CDS and we are all interested in doing this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President. — Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u109	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, as you know, the CFP already has a very extensive heritage of presenting concrete proposals on this matter of incompatibilities and impediments and concrete measures aimed at combating the promiscuity that exists between political and economic power. In other words, they are scheduled for next Friday two bills that aim precisely to tighten the standards, the legal framework, to combat these situations that are somehow castrifying the democratic system in which we live. The second question we want to put here is that we follow the proposal for the establishment of a possible committee, and within its scope we have matters that we accompany and others that we do not have, in particular, any doubts as to the legalization of the lobby, but we have no doubts as to the centralization of interest registers, their transparency and better coordination with the various bodies accompanying the interest registers, whether the Constitutional Court, or the Assembly of the Republic, and that this is done in a more articulated manner. But there is one thing that the CFP Parliamentary Group has absolute certainty: there is an imperative need to improve the law governing impediments and incompatibilities. For us, it is not acceptable that anyone who has a particular sector may work in this sector over 3 or 4 months and still above be promoted to the vice president of a particular parliamentary group. For us, it is unacceptable that these situations of promiscuity occur for two reasons: either there is a lack of law or a misunderstanding of it. Regardless of the reasons, we believe that it is necessary to change the law in order to tighten the criteria that lead to these situations in particular and to prevent them for the sake of Portuguese democracy. Another question we wanted to raise has to do with illicit enrichment. The PS applies the issues of illicit enrichment only to the holders of political positions and to high public positions and we believe that this is a limited vision and that the issue of illicit enrichment should also be extended to the private sector. Mr. President. - I ask you to conclude, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u110	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we understand that a vision that limits the application of the law to this sector, not extending it to the private sector, is, in our view, restrictive, and the question is whether the PS perspective is to limit only to this sector or may include a discussion that necessarily extends to other holders, particularly the private sector. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President. — In response to requests for clarification, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Deputies Antonio Carlos Monteiro and Jorge Machado the constructive interventions on this theme. I believe that the spirit is precisely what the CDS and the PCP here have revealed, with the willingness to come to the debate, do not run away from the subject and seek to find points of contact and convergence. In the past, a CDS project, a suggestion that also now leaves, a project that tries to standardize legislation on the subject. It was a project of the 1990s that sought to create a single law and that all these matters, coherently, were analyzed. I believe that it was a good contribution from the CDS and that it could be revised precisely within the framework of the possible committee, which, we stress, should be open to civil society, involve the participation of the academy, involve the participation of those who civically work these matters and who are also qualified observers to help us, ladies and gentlemen, to build the new regime. It is that sometimes public perception, even more so than how the law itself is drafted, is that it is the dynamite that corroborates the foundations of public institutions and, therefore, this communicative factor associated with clarity and transparency must, above all, preside at the way we organize our work. The question of illicit enrichment, which is somehow transversal to the two requests for clarification, for us, has always been addressed in the perspective of constitutional conformity. Now, the proposals that were discussed and approved were later the object of the Constitutional Court's unconstitutional pronouncement, failed in the crevo of constitutionality. So let us resume those proposals that seem to us to be an adequate response in our perspective and in accordance with the Constitution. Somehow, the previous majority had two opportunities to create a good first impression and failed both. Therefore, I think it is also reasonable that the PS can now try to demonstrate that the solution it presents is sufficient to respond to the problem. The question that Mr. Jorge Machado raises may have a technical problem, and a technical problem that is not exposing, which is the fact that criminal law effectively punishes behaviors and not results. And the realization that the behaviour we are going to punish is the difficulty in extending to the generality of the citizens, when, in relation to the holders of public office, it is very easy to do so, because there is a specific heritage statement to which everyone is bound. But once again, I say again, there is total openness on the part of this bench, on the part of the Socialist Party, to build solutions that conform to the constitutional text and increase the quality of our democracy. Finally, in a very brief way, I must say that the PS also has some heritage on this matter and, for example, the aspect it refers to on the exercise of functions at another location, particularly in the protected sector, after the performance of functions, was the subject of a legislative proposal presented by the PS in the past legislature, which has been refused and we are now presenting again, because we are not actually born from zero at this time with the possible committee. There is a history and this history, of course, is permeable and molded to seek consensus and to build as much as possible extended in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u112	For a political statement, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today begins the official discussion of the National Reform Programme ( PNR ) in Parliament, in fact, the kickoff had already been given with a session, I would say, almost clarification and with the debate with the Prime Minister. All these debates — what we are going to have today and others that will follow — are good, important, are relevant. It's always good to discuss and ponder. But, as much as the debates take place, there is one question that remains in the air and that we will not forget. It is because we know very well that, in order to seriously discuss and debate this National Reform Programme, we needed to be discussing the Stability Programme at the same time and related to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u115	It is not by chance that these two documents are planned together and it is not by chance that the discussion of these documents is taking place throughout Europe. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u116	Mrs. Members, we understand very well the difficulties of the Socialist Party, but it is not possible to discuss serious reforms, it is not possible to discuss seriously what we want for Portugal without discussing what means we will have to put these reforms into practice in the country and without discussing, of course, what effects these reforms will have.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u118	Are they going to boost economic growth or are they going to be all the same? They're gonna make the job grow or everything stay the same? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u119	It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are discussing reforms without presenting a scenario, an account, a forecast, an effect, anything that reminds us of reality and concrete, then, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to see that our discussion is amputated on reality and, as such, will have very little practical effect. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Of course, we understand — and we will call things by names — what was almost a sort of publicity blow, in fact, not particularly subtle, by Mr. Prime Minister, presenting the National Reform Programme. And we fully understand how difficult it is to present the Stability Program at the same time. It will not be, I hope, because the government has no idea what the practical application of these measures will actually be. There are two problems: first, when we look at the concrete consequences of what we are proposing, the difficulties arise and the times arise when the world is not only made of roses, and the government naturally wants to hide these difficulties; then, it is also not necessary to be self-conceived to realize that, with a PowerPoint — excuse me — with many common places and many ideas, but few will be original and very commendable, certainly, and the few that are original are very questionable, when we start discussing numbers, when we discuss scenarios, when we discuss what impact some of these reforms will have on employment or the economy, the differences will arise, and the differences within the parties that support the government will emerge. And it is curious that when there are differences of opinion, all the rhetoric we have heard here from « dialogue » of « debate » of « will be constructive » will disappear, because then both the government and the parties who support it say: « No, no! We will close up in a room without telling anyone anything about what is going on here and then we will have to communicate to what agreement we have reached."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u121	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to discuss this, and the government has launched this challenge, then we are going to have a serious discussion. Bring here, with the National Reform Programme, the Stability Programme and we will discuss, but we will discuss seriously. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u122	It's just the CDS, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly do not exempt ourselves from putting forward proposals. And we have concrete proposals for the NRP that do not forget such important issues as, for example, the competitiveness of companies, the scenarios, the concrete consequences. But we do not just want to discuss these proposals, we also want to discuss the Stability Programme, we want to know whether of their proposals will arise, for example, a growing economy, and growing more because that is what we need, we want to know what impact these measures have on employment, whether we will be able to combat unemployment, particularly young unemployment, which is a scourge with which many European economies face. So we did not steal into discussion, but we did not steal into the right question. We want to know the starting point of the National Reform Programme. The Council of Public Finance, which, as many will know — I believe — is an independent body, has been working, as it has, for over a year, been given to look at these documents and, more importantly, to prepare the scenario for these documents. And the Public Finance Council asks a question which we consider to be relevant: what is the starting point? What will happen if we do not take any more measures, if we only take into account the measures that the Government and the left wing parties have already agreed on? And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Public Finance has reached a very worrying conclusion. In addition to those already reported as additional measures, we are also very concerned about what will happen in the coming years. I will therefore read and quote the report of the Council of Public Finance : « (...) the scenario shows that a highly favourable shock to private consumption in the short term cannot relaunch the growth of investment and productivity to the rhythms needed to ensure the desired levels of employment and social well-being. on the contrary, the growth of all... », I repeat, of all «... the components of GDP slowed down over the whole period, the same with job creation ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u123	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u124	I will finish, Mr. President. This one, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as your rhetoric says differently, it is an independent opinion on our starting point.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u126	So the CDS is here and is going to discuss what it takes to change this scenario and to get to a different place. They wanted you to come in, show us the Stability Programme once and discuss it with us! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u127	To request clarification, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u128	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, register, with pleasure, the interest of the CDS in the National Reform Programme and now I also bring here, to recall, a very important document, which is the script for the reform of the State, which was then presented by Vice-First Minister Paulo Portas and which remained to history for having 112 pages and, above all, for the size of the letter and its space. Therefore, in fact, we have discussed reforms here, but not always in a serious way and therefore the PS bench is pleased that the CDS is so interested in the National Reform Programme. I want to give you two clarifications and then leave you some questions, Mrs Cecilia Meireles. And the clarifications are as follows: it is obvious that the two documents you have referred to, i.e. the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, will be presented in this Chamber at the appropriate time. I can tell you that the Council of Ministers, in principle on 21 this month, will approve the final version of both documents, which will be discussed here in this Parliament on 27, and sent to Brussels on 28. I would like to ask you, in this regard, if I ever repeat, in the history of this Parliament, there was a National Reform Programme that would be discussed in this way. Not many were presented, but there were already a few or there was one and, before, there were the Stability and Growth Programs, as will be remembered, and the Budget Strategy Documents, so there were several documents similar to this. During the previous legislation, there was a document every year and in the last year, in 2015, there was the National Reform Programme. So I would like to ask you a question that has to do with the following: we, the Socialist Party, the Government and the Assembly will debate here — starting today and continuing tomorrow — each of the pillars of the National Reform Programme. Has this ever been discussed in this way in Parliament before the final programme was adopted? I would like you to clarify this, i.e. whether there was any document, no longer to speak in the above-mentioned script for the reform of the state, some National Reform Programme presented previously... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u129	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u130	I'm done now, Mr. President. That, therefore, was something that I would like you to clarify. Secondly, I would like you to realize that the two documents will be presented here and discussed before they go to Brussels. So this is the method that distances us and that's what I'd like you to explain to us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u131	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u132	Mr President, Mr Trigo Pereira, first of all, I would like to thank and record your question, since I see that the parties in the arch on the left, who so much appeal to dialogue and who so much want to discuss, since they want to discuss so much as to hear views similar to theirs or as long as it is at the closed door, with the government, because they already like to discuss here in Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u133	No, we really like to debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u134	But, in any case, Mr Deputy, let us note that. As for the script for state reform, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, good memory, because I remember the criticisms at the time, and of which he came here again, that were the type of letter and space. I can answer you, Mr: at least it was not a PowerPoint, at least it was a written text with concrete measures and proposals. We would be discussing a document so concrete or with half the degree of realisation that the script had for the reform of the state! [[CDS-PP applause.]] And that's what impresses you! It is that you present not a script but a programme and it is much less concrete than what was a script. So I would not talk about it again, understand the incoherence and not talk about it again! Secondly, Mr President, the documents must be discussed here. Mr President, it would be bad if they were not discussed here! But the honourable Member said, well, that they will be discussed here on 27th and will be sent to Brussels on 28th. Therefore, the degree of openness that exists in relation to proposals is clearly seen. So I'm going to tell you a little bit of history, as you told me. the last time a National Reform Programme was discussed, and yes, it was the first time, because we were leaving an adjustment program—I don't know if you know that for three years we had a somewhat atypical operation, because of an action by the Socialist Party Government... I don't know if you remember that? Oh, my God! — when we finally returned to normal functioning or within normality, by the action of a Government of this bench and the PSD bench, yes, contributions were requested to all opposition parties before the presentation of the document. And do you know what the Socialist Party's contribution was? I'm going to tell you: I didn't want to contribute, I didn't want to argue, I didn't want to show up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u136	Stay for the story! It is well noted, indeed, that the difference between a serious, responsible opposition, with the ability to present concrete proposals, but that it does not hide the accounts nor does it take into account that the accounts are a shameful thing that is hidden in the closet, and an opposition that does not want to participate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u137	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u138	Of course, Mr. President. I shall finish with one question: I would like to know whether or not the Stability Programme is going to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u139	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u140	Perhaps someone, in this bench, who is from the government party, or in the benches that support you want to answer this question, why is this the question that remains: will you or will you not have the courage to vote for the Stability Programme in this House? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u142	For a political declaration, you now have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past few years, particularly in the years of PSD/CDS governance, which have been years of increasing impoverishment and worsening of social injustices and inequalities, the political options taken have had consequences on the concrete life and day-to-day lives of the Portuguese people, in a reality marked by situations of economic and social vulnerability, poverty and social exclusion, especially aggravated by unemployment, exploitation and precariousness, low wages and the weakening of public health, education and social security systems, which are instruments to guarantee fundamental rights and promote social inclusion. This is a reality more gravely felt by people with disabilities and their families. They are, in their overwhelming majority, citizens with serious economic shortages, subject to greater degradation of living conditions, and most of them suffer from the violent consequences of unemployment and precariousness, thus placing them in the social groups most affected by poverty and social exclusion. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The unemployment rate among people with disabilities is significantly higher, two to three times. The vast majority of disabled people are not employed and a significant part is not even registered in employment centres. There are many thousands of disabled workers who have been waiting for work integration for years and many thousands of others who are in training actions and who are no longer counting on statistics, as if their labour and social situation were thus resolved. The difficulties in access to employment are greatly aggravated in the case of these people. This reality adds to the difficulty in access to education and the continued disinvestment in public school compromises inclusive and solidarity school and the constitutional law of children and young people with disabilities. There are thousands of children and young people without follow-up in schools because of the lack of teachers and other special education professionals; there are countless children and young people who, due to changes introduced by PSD/CDS in the criteria for awarding special education grant, have seen this support cut, as well as delays in their payment, which in many cases caused the interruption of therapies and led to serious clinical setbacks. Inclusive education means that all children and young people, regardless of their characteristics, origins and conditions, can learn together in public school in their communities. In addition, the deep limitations also on access to health care, with the disappearance of hospital services and valences and health units, while not forgetting the difficulty in accessing technical aid and the necessary therapies and, moreover, the scarce public response in the area of rehabilitation for people with disabilities and workers with disabilities. In addition to all those who are physical and architectural barriers, of communication and information, which persist and which urgently resolve, there are still very serious limitations on access to public transport; there are still housing buildings, public services, culture that do not guarantee access to people with disabilities; there is still a lack of appreciation of the Portuguese gestal language, which is constitutionally recognized (') as a cultural expression and instrument for access to education and equal opportunities'. Accessibility, the various accessibilitys are directly related to the full exercise of social and political rights. Also on the victims of the work here is a word, considering the unfair repair system that they have, as well as the abandonment by the State of the follow-up to these people- situation that it is important to bring to reflection, in order to find answers that safeguard their rights. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We note as positive the steps taken in the area of disability and the measures envisaged in this State budget in this area, such as the increase in social benefits and the commitment of actions to the realization of programmes of independent life, as well as the achievement of the victory achieved, with the contribution of the CFP, as regards the special disability regime, rests justice on its allocation and extending this provision to rare diseases. We also note the measures under labour quotas for people with disabilities, noting that the labour response necessarily has to be work with rights. The steps taken are positive, but a long way is missing. The construction of an inclusive society, so often invoked, requires concrete measures that guarantee labour integration and enable people with disabilities to live with dignity in their homes, participating in the lives of their communities, their friends and their families, promoting their autonomy and independence. There are legal instruments that are, in fact, the guarantor of the rights of people with disabilities. It is necessary to implement these rights and to translate them into measures to combat discrimination and exclusion, ensuring access to work and social protection, health, education, housing, culture and knowledge, sport, active participation in political and social life, and eliminating the barriers that persist. We reject attempts to replace the rights of persons with disabilities with care and charitable policies, which represent a profound political and social regression, understanding that the response goes through the realization of the rights already enshrined in the law, but that life is not yet. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our Constitution determines that the State has an obligation to '(...) implement a national policy of prevention and treatment, rehabilitation and integration(...)' of persons with disabilities, as well as support for their families, and that '(...) take charge of the effective realization of their rights(...)'. Inclusion and integration are words whose weight of its meaning must have their translation into policies that translate into concrete life what is enshrined and provided for in international law and legal instruments, which have been subscribed and ratified by the Portuguese State, thus binding it on its assumptions. The commitment that the CFP undertakes is to intervene in response to the problems of people with disabilities, on the path of an autonomous, independent and dignified life, a right that is inalienable, of all and of each. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u144	Mrs. Deputy, three Members have signed up. Members to make requests for clarification. Please tell the Bureau how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u145	I shall reply jointly to two honourable Members. Members and then one, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u146	All right, Mrs. Deputy. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Jorge Falcato Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u147	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, it is not unpunished that disabled people are known as invisible citizens. Citizens who don't have a job, citizens who don't walk on the street, because they can't, citizens who don't leave home, because they're trapped at home, are always those citizens who are forgotten. With regard to what has brought us here, I am concerned at this moment that these citizens are still being forgotten in the State budget. And they continue to be forgotten in the State Budget, but there were two positive measures, which were the increase in the deduction to collection for families with dependent disabled persons and the registration of the independent life commitment and that there will be a single benefit that will remove people with disabilities from the poverty situation. It is a promise that we want to see fulfilled and it is a single benefit that, for me, will have to ensure these two things: to get people out of the poverty situation and to guarantee independent living conditions to those who need support from third parties. The question that I leave is this: is the understanding we have about the single benefit the Communist Party defends, that is, a benefit that takes away the person from the situation of poverty and, on the other hand, guarantees him enough money to hire the personal assistance he needs? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u148	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u149	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, the knowledge we have of the number of people with disabilities has since increased by a greater sense of responsibility from each of us to the problem and the need for their defence, which is an obligation not only of some people but of all society. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted on 13 December 2006 by the Assembly of the Republic, through Resolutions Nos. 56 / 2009 and 57 / 2009, is an instrument of great importance that has been able to overcome an existing failure so far. Tomorrow, in this plenary session, we will again have the discussion of the issue of disabled people and Mrs. Diana Ferreira's intervention came, a little, to anticipate this same discussion, bringing concerns that are shared by all, but which raise two questions to me: the valorization of policies for disabled people and the investment in these same policies could be a fundamental condition for their inclusion? Do you understand that existing legislation is sufficient and that what it needs is to be observed or, in the case of the road to be taken, which you have referred to as a long one, does new measures still require? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u150	In response to these two first requests for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u151	Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Jorge Falcato Simões and Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha for her questions. In fact, the concerns that have been expressed here are concerns that we are following. On the other hand, with regard to the single benefit, for example, which is in the State budget, it was also a matter which we raised at meetings with the Minister, saying that the concern we have is that there can be no reduction in those who are the support to disabled people and that there must be a way to guarantee the rights of these people and to improve their living conditions, considering their grave economic and social situation. I would also like to say that, while signaling the positive aspects of the State budget, we recognize their inadequacies. There is, of course, a path that needs to be made, a path that must be taken in guaranteeing the rights of these people. There are laws, international treaties and international legal instruments which the Portuguese State has ratified and subscribed and which need to be implemented and implemented in the lives of these people. There are legislation that provides for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, but, if it is currently enshrined in the role, provided for in the law, it is not yet effective in the life or daily life of these persons,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u153	... that continue to face a set of difficulties in their daily lives, in the most unusual tasks: in the movement on the street, in access to public transport, in the way to a health centre. The closure of services, hospital valences or health units means, for these people, an increased displacement, with all the difficulties that already exist, also at the level of access to public transport. These are matters on which, already enshrined in the law, nothing prevents new initiatives or new forms of intervention being treated. What matters, yes, is to ensure that what is already enshrined in the law and that the proposals taken by the Portuguese State, particularly in the international legal instruments that have been ratified, are effectively implemented in concrete political measures that contribute to improving the living conditions of these people. This is also a battle for which the CFP undertakes its commitment to contribute, in order to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u154	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u155	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I would like to congratulate her on the topic she brought to this plenary for debate, because it is of the greatest importance and should be treated with great sobriety and high sense of responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u156	It is a sensitive matter, because it covers those who, among all of us, face, perhaps, the greatest difficulties. It is important to say here, perhaps by quoting a phrase from the honourable Member, that there are many legal instruments already approved, but it is important to take a path, and that is what I think we are all, every day, in the face of concrete and objective situations, asked to do. We have tried to do our best, and I am aware of this in a context of great difficulties. We did not stop looking at those who needed it, and the resources were very scarce, but the difficulties were certainly helping these people to overcome them. But there is legislation that must be called upon to be met, whether as regards vocational training, or in support of the independent life of these people who, through immense situations of life, by occupational accidents, by situations of birth disability or throughout life, need support at the level of training in order to overcome their difficulties. But also in creating conditions that allow us to overcome the architectural barriers that exist and that we have so many times denounced that they existed in this plenary session and in this House of the Republic. It is with these questions that we are being questioned every day and for which we are always ready to contribute.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u157	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u158	I will now finish, Mr President. I would just like to ask the honourable Member a very objective question: what does the Portuguese Communist Party intend to do in concrete terms, now that it is an integral part of the government, to resolve this issue more quickly? [[PSD applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u159	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u160	Mr President, I am grateful for the speech of Mrs Mercês Borges who must be mistaken because the CFP is not a government. [[PSD protests.]] [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u161	But the CFP, not being a government at the last legislative session, when you were a government, presented a draft resolution on the independent life which you mentioned here and which you voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u162	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u163	That is why the concern expressed by the honourable Member at this moment should have been expressed in the last legislative session when the CFP presented the draft resolution of independent life. [[Congratulations from the PCP, from the PS and BE Member Jorge Falcato Simões.]] On the question of vocational training, Mrs Deputy, which does not help people with disabilities to skip vocational training in vocational training and internships without having access to their right, i.e. work which guarantees their independence, autonomy and a dignified life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u165	The commitment which the CFP has made in recent years and proposed in this House is to improve the living conditions of these people and to ensure that the constitutional rights of persons with disabilities are respected. That is our commitment to these people, to the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u166	You have the floor for the last political statement, Mr José de Matos Rosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there were any doubts, 36. the National PSD Congress made it clear that we are the only party force that really thinks about the future. [[PSD applause.]] If there were any doubts, it was very clear that the PSD has a reformist and development project for Portugal at the service of the Portuguese, without the rush of being government again, but with the urgency of those who want to solve the problems of Portugal. The PSD has renewed its reformist commitment to the Portuguese, a commitment that places the Portuguese at the heart of political decisions and actions; a commitment that chooses to take on the difficulties and challenges that Portugal still faces and that chooses to tell the truth to the Portuguese; a commitment that chooses to relegate superficiality and that concentrates on the essential. It was a moment of internal construction that will contribute to the construction of an ambitious Portugal and a stronger Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] If there were any doubts, it became very clear that the PSD is the best party to lead the reformist agenda that Portugal needs so much to grow and create jobs. in the PSD, we built a project that can offer the Portuguese better living conditions and horizons of realization. But we know that these goals are only within our reach if we have the courage of — as a country and as a society — to take measures that enable us to free ourselves from the burden of debt and the state; measures that enable us to rid ourselves of the antagonistic habits and habits of developed societies and competitive economies; measures that return to the State its basic functions as regulator and as guarantor of quality public services; measures that strengthen democratic life and that require each one of us, who sits on these benches, the task of placing the interests of the Portuguese above our personal and party agendas. If there were any doubts, it became clear that only the PSD has a truly reformist project for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] It is absolutely clear that we have a strategy for the country, the more we look at the current government and see that it moves drifting, week after week, day after day. He absorbs left-wing proposals when necessary. Cover every claim of trade unions with reversals. the problems of the economy respond with false solutions and without strategic innovation. Let us also be clear: this government does not rule. Your only mission is to undo what has been done behind you, despite the good results recognized inside and out. [[PSD applause.]] This government is like a drifting boat, driven by the winds blowing from the left. Let's see if it doesn't lead the country into the rocks and get stuck. Every day it becomes more clear that with this government, the country needs an active opposition, supervisory and attentive. This is the PSD: the opposition leader party, constructive, when it must be, but without yielding to its convictions. This is because we respond to a mandate and expectations of the Portuguese who chose us to be here. We have a political initiative, and today we have begun to present a set of six draft resolutions to improve the lives of Portuguese and businesses with concrete proposals. Today, we have left to the Government nearly 70 proposals for corporate capitalization and the qualification of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u169	It is thus proven that we do not make the « accounting policy », like others, which are limited to presenting PowerPoint. We do not exchange the strength of our ideas for political timing! We're not in a hurry, but we've got a lot of claws! [[PSD applause.]] We therefore insist on matters that we consider urgent. We want to debate widely and without ideological prejudices the re-approximation of the Portuguese to democracy, through the reform of the electoral law. We ask the PS, the PCP, the Left Block, the Greens Ecological Party and the PAN again if they are available to discuss a solution that will ensure that all of us and our children and grandchildren receive reforms when we reach our height? Are they available, or are they not, to debate, with seriousness and without electoralism? We repeat here in Parliament the challenge we launched in our 36. Congress, because we do not want to believe that the statements of the last days are binding.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u171	We cannot believe that those who asked for proposals now refuse, at first, to know them, because that would be a lot, but very incoherent. No, no, no. We cannot believe that the Socialist Party — which is called the great consensus worker — does not want to hear the new proposals that we have just tabled. [[PSD applause.]] And no use insisting on the lie: we never proposed or defended pensions! If you have any doubts, here we are, here is the PSD to clarify them. We're a reformist party, we're not stuck in the past. We want to build a better Portugal for all Portuguese and we have the courage to say. They say they want to build consensus, but they close the doors of dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u172	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u173	I will now finish, Mr President. They ask us for proposals, but they say that they do not want to talk about them, even knowing their content. Speaking is easy, but democracy is not said, it is done. And it is done with transparency, without trying to manipulate the truth according to it gives us more! Therefore, we are still available to talk about what matters, with all the parties, because above all, for the Social Democratic Party, Portugal must be! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u174	Mr President, the Bureau records five requests for clarification. Please indicate how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u175	I shall answer all together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u176	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, would like to congratulate Mr Matos Rosa democratically on the conduct of the PSD Congress. I must tell you, with all sincerity, that I watched most of the speeches and thought it was a little enthusiastic, perhaps, but not enthusiastic congress.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u178	You've been distracted, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u179	I have just told you that I have heard many speeches from Congress, Mr. In any case, regardless of that, what is important is to ask what happened again from the PSD Congress. After all, what message was the Portuguese people able to galvanize people for this future, which Mr. Matos Rosa mentioned in his speech, left Congress? In fact, as I also said, we do not know the content of the proposals. Better said, we don't know the proposals! In fact, some ideas have been spelled out. For example, I realized that in the final intervention of the President of the PSD, who had just been elected, there was a constitutional review. He said that they would not propose any constitutional revision, because the two-thirds of the Members would certainly be lacking in order to achieve it. But this would not prevent him from verbalizing concrete proposals for the constitutional review. Or will it be the same proposals for 2010, when Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho was first elected President of the PSD? There was no evolution? Is the situation exactly the same? After all, what's going on with the PSD and what's the future of the PSD thinking about the country? In fact, we cannot be clarified on this matter. They spoke in other proposals, such as social security reform. The question is: reform of social security for what? What proposals? What concrete content do these proposals have? Is that already an old proposal to set up social security at that cut of EUR 600 million per year in pensions and reforms? Is that the future that you are planning for our pensioners and pensioners? If that's it, it's good to clarify.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u180	It was nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u181	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u182	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u183	I shall now conclude, Mr President, by referring to the fact that another proposal which has caused us some strangeness was the proposal for a reform of the electoral law. In fact, reforming the electoral law must be the priority of Portuguese priorities right now! There's nothing else in the head of the Portuguese and Portuguese! By the way, would you like to know what the contents of this electoral reform are? Is that what they proposed a few years ago, that is, to win in the office, to transform the electoral system into a bipartisan system around electoral circles? Mr, if that is indeed the case, there is no novelty in the PSD Congress. Anyway, I greet him with sympathy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u184	Mr João Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Matos Rosa, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement and salute the PSD for the conduct of your Congress and its new bodies and leaders for your election. I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that of the interventions made and the outcome of the PSD Congress, it seemed, in fact, that the PSD was still tied to a reality which it did not want to accept, i.e. that the elections of 4 October defeated the previous coalition that ruled the country for four years, with the results that are known. Therefore, the interventions seemed to show that they were still tied to this prospect of refusing the electoral defeat they suffered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u186	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u187	Mr President, in his political statement, he has just pointed out a perspective that may be a little different, assuming that there is a great desire in the PSD to be government again. I am afraid, Mr Matos Rosa, that the desire of the PSD to be government again is proportional to the desire that the Portuguese have to see you away from the government. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But this is a mistrust I have regarding the assessment that will be made of the four-year governance of the PSD and the CDS. Mr Matos Rosa, because from your bench there are already some petitions in this direction, I can always tell you more: the CFP, even if it is not in the government these months,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u188	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u189	...have contributed more to problem solving than you have ever tried in the past four years. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is a reality from which you will have to remove some consequences. Mr Matos Rosa, I would like to ask you a few specific questions that have to do with two issues that you have dealt with in your political statement, in particular with the reminder that the PSD now needed to present proposals about the qualifications of Portuguese, social security and electoral laws. Now, with regard to the first two aspects, Mr President, I would like to know what the consequences are, what an awareness-raising is that the PSD has already made about the options it took in the previous government on education policy, the qualifications of Portuguese workers, social security, to know whether they have already abandoned all those projects that had, namely, the elitization of education, its worsening, the surrender of public school to private interests, the destruction of social security, in particular with cuts of 600 million in pensions and the liquidation of the financial sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u190	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u191	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to electoral laws, Mr Matos Rosa, I would like to know whether this intention to amend the electoral laws has to do with the bitterness that the PSD has in relation to the results of the last legislative elections...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u192	You guys have reasons for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u193	...or if they even want to win in the office what they can't get through the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u194	You've stayed in 5. the place and we in 1. The place!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u195	Do you really want to be able to continue with the government because of the amendments to the electoral laws? Mr. José Matos Rosa, the expression of the Portuguese people in the last elections was the opposite and you should withdraw some of the consequences. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u196	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Matos Rosa, I would like to begin by congratulating the PSD on the conduct of its Congress and thanking the way the CDS delegation was received. We accompany Mr Deputy in the political diagnosis that he makes of this government, the only course of which seems to be to be to revert to privatizations, revert to exams, revert to the modernisation of the economy, reverse to the downside of IRC. I also say to you, Mr President, that we have a lot of honour in the government together, we have served Portugal. We received a country with troika, under rescue, in recession, with unemployment growing, and left a country without troika, without rescue, with economic growth and with unemployment falling.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u199	Let us hope that the current government will not reverse this either. As regards the main conclusions of the Congress, I wanted to say that, as Dr. Assumption Cristas said, the CDS is engaged in a debate on the sustainability of social security and will make very concrete and feasible proposals on this subject. We also count on the PSD for this debate, since the PS does not seem to want to come to the game. With regard to the reform of the electoral system, I say only that the CDS will not escape this debate when it comes to knowing the concrete proposals, and we believe that, as always, it is essential to ensure proportionality and representativeness. in this respect, as in other debates, the CDS will do its part. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u200	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular, Mr Matos Rosa, also liked, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, to welcome the leadership of the PSD, as well as all its militants for the conduct of the Congress, which is, of course, a high moment of the life of any political party. So I want to greet you for that moment. In the meantime, moving to the truly political part, Mr. Member, do you know what the feeling of the PSD Congress is? That you had to get something new, in fact, and it wasn't easy to invent anything new to propose or to do. Then, the gentlemen passed the whole Congress to see how they were able to necklace themselves, labels, labels and labels. The CDS had labels and wanted to hold them now: it was the pensioner's party, the taxpayer's party, the farm party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u202	It was, and it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u203	When he arrived at the government, it was noticed that they were only labels, because materially and in political practice it was all the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u204	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u205	Perhaps the PSD has now found that it is important also to win labels. So, honourable Member, what was the big PSD label in Congress? « We are the most reformist party». If I was the CDS until I was a little upset, because, I tell you already, Mr. Deputy comes to the rostrum and says: "We are the only reformist party, we are the leader of the opposition. » Calm down, Mr. Take a good look, because there's life around you too. Mr President, this label idea is not enough to answer the real problems that the Portuguese face. I must remember that many of the problems that the Portuguese are facing have precisely resulted from the policies that you have practised, and you have not recognized this in your Congress. They could have said in many matters: "We were wrong, but we are willing to make a reading of the last election result, where the Portuguese voters gave a majority of votes to the parties that had committed themselves to the change. But no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u206	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u207	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying the following: what do you propose to the Portuguese? What the Portuguese need for nothing strictly: revision of the electoral law and reform of the electoral system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u208	It is a danger to 'The Greens'!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u209	Take a good look, Mr. Deputies. This is what you have to offer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u210	The danger is 'The Greens' are gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u211	Social security reform: what does this mean in PSD mode? It means cuts and privatization. [[PSD protests.]] It gives me the idea that the Portuguese said no in the last elections. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u212	You have the floor, for the fifth and last request for clarification, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Matos Rosa, in his own person, wanted to greet the Democratic Social Party for the conduct of its Congress, as well as the elected bodies. Mr President, let me tell you, in order to start this debate, that in democracy it is so important the party that rules as the party that opposes it. That is how democracy is strengthened, and that is how it is credible. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should welcome the PSD because the only truly innovative thing that came out of its Congress, after all these months, is that the PSD finally realized that it is in the opposition and that it has to take over its place of opposition in Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore expected that, as an opposition party that is, it will be constructive and that it will not relinquish its mission to also help find solutions for the country. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is any doubt, I will say that you are. Members of the PSD, in the State Budget, have eclipsed themselves in the debate of the National Reform Programme, but here there has been a Congress and today they have presented a significant set of measures for the recapitalisation of companies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was you who, for four and a half years, suffocated small and medium-sized enterprises, led to bankruptcy a significant set of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The gentlemen. Members say: "But today we have a great contribution to the qualification of Portuguese. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is good to remember that the PSD, when opposed, has a set of very good intentions, but during the four and a half years that it was in power what it did was to end adult education and training, was to end public school, it was to attack, in an unbelievable way, the social state. [[PSD protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. So when they invite us to discuss social security, I say we will discuss it with you. Members, but not in accordance with what Dr. Passos Coelho used at the Congress, i.e. only if we meet what the PSDs want, which is the cut of 600 million in pensions. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u214	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u215	And that is what the Socialist Party has already rejected. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u216	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u217	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to tell Mr Matos Rosa that, if there were any doubts, the PSD Congress brought more of the same: words and promises of the PSD when it is in opposition, because when it governs it does everything the opposite. Well, you can appreciate the best living conditions. What you can say is to apologize to the Portuguese people who have become impoverished over four and a half years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u218	To reply, Mr José de Matos Rosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in Portugal, this is the year of congresses. It started with the CDS-PP Congress, which I welcome, the PSD Congress was held last weekend, the PS will have its Congress in June and the Left Block and PCP at the end of the year. Therefore, we can say that this is the year of the party congresses in Portugal. Some will have better reasons to hold these conventions, others will have worse. Our Congress was alive, dynamic, the PSD militants were able to discuss 28 motions on various issues, we gathered together and, on our own site, we discussed our present, but essentially our future, never embarrassing ourselves of our past, because we are not ashamed of what we have done in recent years and throughout these 42 years of democracy, unlike others. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u220	We've made amends!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u221	My dear Mr. Pedro Soares, the PSD is a reformist party, as I said, is a party that the Portuguese know well and know what they can count on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u222	I dare say 'gypsy'!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u223	Mr. João Oliveira, I am talking to Mr. Pedro Soares and I will now speak with you. I want to tell you, Mr Soares, that it is not repeating times without account of a lie that you and the parties that support this government can make it a truth. [[PSD applause.]] For the EUR 600 million, this court has never existed, it has never been proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u224	Ask the ex-Minister for Finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u225	Prove where he is! Prove where it was said that there would be this cut. [[PCP protests.]] My dear Mr João Oliveira, the PSD is not afraid to review the electoral law in any way.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u226	He's afraid he'll stay!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u227	Perhaps, the Portuguese Communist Party is afraid of reversing. We have good results, we have won the legislative elections, we are the first of the first.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u228	Then rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u229	Perhaps, the Communist Party and other parties will have problems not to review and not go to play about these reforms so necessary for the country—and the electoral law is also a necessary reform for the country—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u230	We know what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u231	...because they will be afraid of the results or even worse results than they have had in recent times. If there is a party that has lost election is the Portuguese Communist Party, fortunately. [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Is it a lie that they've lost election? The results say so! See the Journal of the Republic where the election results are published and compare them with those of the other years. [[PSD applause.]] We are not in a hurry to go to the government. It has been said in our Congress, and we continue to say that the success of this government is the success of Portugal and is also the success of all the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u232	They've changed the bottle!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u233	We will always be, but always, next to the Portuguese so that Portugal will succeed. But in order for Portugal to succeed, this government has to govern, it cannot realise that it is ruling week by week or day. He cannot rule day by day without thinking about tomorrow and the Portuguese. He cannot always be thinking, as he is doing, in the future of the party and of the people who are in government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have put forward a number of proposals — and I am repeating myself — such as the reform of social security and the reform of the electoral system, and I want to say to the Socialist Party and the Communist Party the following: come with us! Let's discuss our differences, our projects. Don't be afraid to play with us and discuss with us the reforms that are essential for Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u234	I ask you to conclude, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u235	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. António Carlos Monteiro, I thank you for your congratulations. We worked for four and a half years together and we were very proud of the work we did. In fact, I can't forget what happened today in a newspaper. Today it is five years ago about the date of the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding with the troika and what can be read is the previous government has controlled the public accounts, drastically reduced the budget deficit, made the economy grow again, put unemployment down and employment uphill, greatly improved the external balance of the Portuguese economy. I'm not the one who says it, it's the papers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u236	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u237	Finally, I would like to thank Mrs de las Verdes Heloísa Apolónia and tell her the following: « Mr. The honourable Member, we are not afraid to go to votes. Come and discuss these topics with us. Go to vote, too! Do not go to the lap or hide with the PCP ». [[PSD applause.]] [[Go to vote!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u238	Does this mean that you didn't vote in the last elections? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u239	Solve that thing that we don't mess with!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u240	Thank you very much, Mr Matos Rosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u241	Mr President, before you finish, I would ask you to give me only 30 seconds. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, we are willing, in these great matters, to discuss in this very important matter for Portugal and for the Portuguese. We have no taboos, we are open to your opinion and if your project is better than ours, if we check this, we will be with you. Do not be afraid, but tell the Portuguese: « Come with us, discuss».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u242	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u243	We do not rule by the PS, we do not resign from our obligations and we do not do what the Socialist Party and this government have done, which is the policy of accountability. Portuguese can count on PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u244	We will start point 3 of our agenda today with the government's political declaration on private debt and corporate capitalisation under Article 78 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Economy, Manuel Caldeira Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u245	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Today's discussion begins a series of six debates around the National Reform Programme, which the Government has taken the initiative to request the Assembly of the Republic to make the discussion on structural policies for the Portuguese economy and society as open and as involved as possible. The National Reform Programme is part of the European Semester and the exercise of the definition of the implementation of structural interventions in the country that contribute to the balance of public finances and, essentially, to overcoming structural imbalances, through more growth, better employment and greater equality. The National Reform Programme must respond to the country's problems and challenges. Portugal today presents a level of indebtedness and investment below the values verified before the crisis. It has a higher level of debt than the pre-crisis values and a lower level of investment than the pre-crisis values. It is necessary to give confidence to people and businesses in how income and demand will grow and the State budget has already provided a response to this need, beginning to restore income more quickly. But it is also necessary to ensure that companies that want to invest have access to financing that enables them to move forward with their projects and create value and employment in Portugal. Access to finance remains one of the critical issues affecting the competitiveness of Portuguese companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. On the one hand, Portuguese SMEs continue to have difficulties in accessing credit and being exposed to very high interest rates and to the requirements of collateral discouraging investment. On the other hand, the financing structures of companies remain too dependent on banking credit and very focused on it in the short term. Therefore, difficulties exist on the part of companies in the provision of means to support their investment plans and their export activity adequately and sustainably. in this context, the capitalisation of companies is a priority taken by this government from the beginning. The government took office at the end of November and soon in December created the Business Capitalisation Mission Structure, with the aim of promoting the capitalisation of Portuguese companies through the strengthening of own capital and thus reducing the level of corporate debt. It has already been in coordination with this Mission Structure that the Government has launched a set of capitalisation and financing funds for companies which should allow investments over EUR 1500 million, a programme which includes a mutual guarantee credit line with better financing conditions for companies, whose notices have already been launched, a line of financing for reversible capital operations, which is an original instrument and is being launched now, as well as lines of venture capital financing and lines of financing for Business Angels. Within the capitalisation instruments, we also launched several instruments in the area of tourism, with a supply qualification line amounting to EUR 60 million, which we announced in the Lisbon Tourism Stock Exchange, or the EUR 50 million Investment and Innovation in Tourism Fund, or the reactivation of tourism real estate and venture capital investment instruments, which we are launching. On 17 March, the Executive Committee for the Mission for the Capitalisation of Enterprises presented to its Monitoring Committee, which includes a number of social partners, sectoral and regional entities and market regulators — a total of more than 40 elements of these institutions — a set of 100 measures for the capitalisation and restructuring of companies, structured around five main axes. A first axis based on leverage of financing and investment, a second axis focused on business restructuring, a third axis of the Capitalisation Programme, which concerns taxation and measures in the area of taxation aimed at equalising the tax treatment of equity in relation to foreign capital and also a dynamising axis of the capital market, which aims to increase the financing of companies by this way. The Capitalisation Programme is a programme in which the Government has been committed since the beginning, since its first month. It is a programme that has led to the creation of the Mission Structure which has already presented important results, it is a programme in which we are committed and in which we want to involve the whole government. The Social Democratic Party presented yesterday, but also today, a resolution with measures to promote capitalisation. The 30 measures presented are aligned with a document we presented three weeks ago, showing that there is plenty of space to build consensus and bridges in this area. I would like to present a challenge to the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party so as to have the willingness to meet with the Mission Structure and with the Government so that we can discuss these measures that have been presented — which, in many respects, are similar to those we are presenting — and also some of the measures that we have and are not included in your programme, but which I think may be consensualized or may at least receive interesting contributions. at this time, they are already receiving contributions from various social partners and from several companies and institutions in the financial area, and I think it is very useful that they receive from all parties but, in particular, taking into account this initiative of the PSD. I conclude as I began, to point out the importance of debates such as today's on the structural axes of the National Reform Programme, such as the capitalization of companies, innovation, the qualification of Portuguese. Today, I have focused on the capitalization of companies because it is a central programme of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and because it is also a programme in which we have already taken concrete steps, in which we are launching an integrated programme which includes various fiscal, financial, financing aspects, legal aspects of business restructuring and involving the Ministry of Justice. A programme that we want to be from all over the country and that involves all institutions and, of course, all parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u246	Let's move on to the debate. To speak, Mr Luís Montenegro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u247	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, I would like to begin by saying to Mr Minister that we consider this debate here, the debate on a second generation of structural reforms to transform our economy, which is fundamental to the future of families, businesses and Portuguese. To that end, Mr Minister, first of all, we must not abuse what has already been done in the first generation of reforms. I am sorry that the Minister has not shown here that everything that has been done in recent years, in the area of justice, in the area of employment, in the area of licensing, in the area of investment code, in the area of investment stimulus, was not valued as a starting point for a national reform plan. The Government understood, moreover, that it did not present a plan, it presented a draft, a draft, a PowerPoint, drawn and filled with generalities, for very vague purposes, many of them constant, moreover, of documents that also come from the past. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, I have to tell you, frankly, that we have a great deal of respect for your intentions, but the Minister needs to be helped. And it needs to be helped, of course, within the government itself, because it is very difficult to be Minister of Economy, to stimulate the economic development of the country, to stimulate the capture and attraction of investment when the Minister is part of a government that makes business changes in the area which you can also deal with. When the Government decides to terminate the process of privatisation of TAP or the sub-concessions of public transport, has Mr Minister been taken and found? Did you understand the signal he gave to investors, running away from them and saying that the state has no word, does it not fulfill its commitments?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u249	When the Government and the Socialist Party decide to break a commitment so that we are fiscally competitive by lowering the IRC, does the Minister of Economy not have a word for the fiscal competitiveness of our country to attract investment? Minister, we want to help you. Parliament has an obligation to help the government and to help the Minister for Economic Affairs. We do not want Mr. Minister and his Ministry to be the poor relative of this government, as they have so far been. Moreover, even in budgetary policy, see, the main measure on the side of the tax revenue was the increase in fuel tax, which worsens — and how! — the costs of the business context, which is worsening, and in what way! — its aims to stimulate the growth of the economy and to create jobs. Therefore, Mr Minister, we have tabled more than 30 proposals which are at the parliamentary level at the disposal of the other banks and also of the government bench for discussion. If the challenge is whether we are available to discuss with you and with the rest of the banks, I will say that we are, and with concrete proposals. We do so, of course, at our own headquarters, which is Parliament, where the parties are and where the government is. But let me say that the Minister needs to draw very much on what is contained in these proposals. The Minister needs to step up, he needs not to be part of a process of loss of confidence and credibility of the Portuguese State and the Portuguese economy. The Minister needs not to exacerbate the costs of the business context, because the measures, even those that are good, do not have the desired effect. The Minister needs not to exacerbate corporate taxation, he needs to take advantage of the proposals to strengthen capitalisation with the own resources of the companies. The Minister really needs to be able to diversify the sources of financing for companies. But, Minister, in order to do this, it is necessary that the strategy be correct. To do this all needs to be credible government policy. To do all this it is necessary not to continue the policy of reversals, which flees investors. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u250	To speak, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u251	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, as you have acknowledged in your speech, one of the major problems facing Portuguese companies, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, is access to finance. In fact, today, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in their large majority, are completely dependent on banking credit, which alone is already unhealthy and unrecommendable. But in addition to this dependence, small and medium-sized enterprises still face other problems that are literally suffocating them, from the outset, great difficulties with access to credit and then we still have the fees charged on smaller loans, which are those loans normally used by SMEs, which continue to be much higher than higher loans, which still means penalties for small and medium-sized enterprises and which certainly make life even more difficult for them. Now, if we take all these difficulties into account and the importance that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises represent for our economy, I believe that there is no need to make a great effort to realize that this situation is hampering the country's economic recovery. Therefore, it seems to us that, in view of the weight that SMEs have in our economy, there will be no economic recovery unless efforts and measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are channelled, an urgency, which has been recognised in the joint position established between the Socialist Party and the Green Party. Mr Minister, the National Reform Programme aims to promote the reorganization of the SME financing framework, which is based on three central axes: to promote more balanced financial structures, to stimulate and create alternative sources of financing and, finally, to reduce the dependence on banking credit. I think it would be important, Mr Minister, for us to make some progress on how the Government intends to achieve these objectives, particularly with regard to reducing the dependence of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises on banking credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u252	To speak, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin by referring precisely one of the expressions of the leader of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Montenegro, responding to that challenge that Mr. Minister of Economics needs to be helped. After listening to Mr Luís Montenegro for five long minutes without presenting a single proposal, I think that he also needs some help on this subject. But this, Mr President, is nothing new. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u254	Can't you read? If you want, I'll read for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u255	But this aid must be added because if we listen carefully to Mr. President of the PSD's speech at the last Congress, we find that at some point he said the following: « It is not said to an entrepreneur, who has no capacity to put more capital in his company, which is what needs to strengthen the capitals ». Now, this was said last Sunday. And on Monday, the PSD Parliamentary Group presented a draft resolution with 30 measures to strengthen the capitals of companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u256	Don't! Read it all!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u257	Mr President, there is something that needs to be clarified and, perhaps, this is the right House to do so. The honourable Member said that the Minister for Economic Affairs needed help, but I think that whoever needs help is the whole PSD, because the President of the Party, at Congress, says that there is no need for recapitalisation and that this is not said to the entrepreneurs and, the next day, the parliamentary leader presents a set of proposals, they are soon 30 and above, as Mr. Minister of Economics said, they are already included in the Programme of the Government and Programme of the Socialist Party. Therefore, this aid must in fact be given to the parliamentary leader of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The parliamentary leader of the PSD said another very interesting thing as well. I said that what is needed is that the strategy is right, because what Mr. Minister did and said is all right, but what is needed is that the strategy is right. Mr. PSD's parliamentary leader, we know the PSD strategy, in fact we all know the PSD agenda and we know what has happened in the last four years. in the last four years, you presented to the country something that was more or less like this: virtuous austerity, which would ensure the consolidation of public accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u258	And much better!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u259	We heard that for some four years, every day they said that. What have you gentlemen done? They cut wages, increased taxes, cut social benefits. Now, we have seen the results of this virtuous austerity when we realize that there have actually been results, but that is not what you expected. I was confirmed and the macroeconomic results are as follows: less 11 % in the income of Portuguese families, more than 470 000 people emigrated and thus conditioned the potential GDP and created problems for the Socialist Party Government to comply with a set of rules with the European Union. But they didn't stay here. They also managed to destroy 350 000 jobs and, of course, created enormous problems for the Portuguese, especially those who were unemployed. in practice, what they did was compromise the internal market and this is obviously your responsibility and inheritance. But if we want to add to these macroeconomic results the micro-economic results, the situation is even more serious. We are now on the subject of corporate capitalization. The situation of companies and their results during your term of office are very clear. I would like you to look at the chart I present here and to check the number of companies that you have lost during the time you were in government. [[PSD laughter.]] And it's not worth a smile! If you notice, the number is much lower in 2007, in 2008, in 2009 and in 2010 and from 2012 is the total breakdown. I'm going to give you some numbers: it was 12,850 companies that closed during your four years of governance. This means 268 companies per month, 62 companies per week, about nine companies per day that you have closed. [[PSD protests.]] But the situation was not just that, you have done more. You have achieved that between 2014 and 2015 the credit recovery rate of companies — and this is a very important figure — was only 5 % in 2014 and 6 % in 2015. [[PSD protests.]] In other words, you destroyed the Portuguese economic fabric, blew up with the companies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u260	You need to have a different can come here, to the Assembly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u261	Yeah, yeah! You need to have a big can!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u262	... to say that whoever needs help is Mr. Minister of Economics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, that doesn't make any sense, sir! But, Mr Luís Montenegro, in the middle of this turbulence of options, you have done something. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, it is good to hand it over because these gentlemen have done something. I want to highlight three things you have done. The first was around 2013. Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs of the time, Mr. Pires de Lima, said: « An anticyclical financing function is essential». And the alpha and the omega of corporate capitalisation, according to the then Minister, was the creation of a promotion bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u263	Mr President, you have to synthesize the final part of your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u264	I'm done now, Mr. President. What happened to the creation of a promotional bank? They did not put a single euro in companies, they did not grant a single credit to companies, they did not help a single businessman, they put 100 million euros there and they had a whole administration there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I'm going to give a second example, just to make it clear. You also said that you were going to make a bet in Portugal 2020 and that that would also solve the problems. What was the solution? On 21 days, the Government of the Socialist Party has already put more in Portuguese companies than you did in about 21 months. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In other words, in 21 months, you put EUR 4, EUR 3 million in companies and the current government has put around EUR 140 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u265	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u266	Mr President, at the end of the day I will set the last example. At some point, they said that funding sources needed to be diversified. So they remembered the Juncker Plan and said this: «We will bet on the Juncker Plan to also fund a set of companies ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u267	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u268	Now in some EUR 5 billion of infrastructure support across Europe, the country did not have a single infrastructure support project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u270	More: with regard to support for the financing of companies, they were able to put about 2 million euros in Banif, which never reached the companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u271	Mr Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Plan is a very important debate for the future of Portugal and, of course, the CDS will always be present with its ideas, with its proposals, but also with its criticisms of what you have just announced. The first criticism I want to make to you is that the government presents a National Reform Plan or, better, it presents a propaganda pamphlet on a set of reforms, but does not present the numbers, it does not present the economic scenario to do the same reform. As is typical, in fact, in socialists, you want to advertise, but you don't want to do the math, and that's something we have to report here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u273	The CDS is armed in mathematics!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u274	The first question I ask is this: Does the Minister ensure that there is no increase in the tax burden on economic activity in the Stability Programme? It does not make sense to say that you are concerned about the capitalisation of companies when it is exactly the same government that interrupted the decline from IRC to the same companies and which increased, and much, the tax burden on economic activity when it increased taxes on fuels. It is not serious to say that companies have a need for capitalisation, but then to tax economic activity and, in this sense, to put companies in an even greater difficulty. Mr. Minister cannot introduce himself here as a sort of Robin of the Forests, but then be effectively the Sheriff of Nottingham, who takes away a lot of liquidity that our business fabric needs. That is why, Mr Minister, I ask you a very specific question: is it available to discuss and accept the proposal of the CDS, within the National Reform Plan and the Stability Programme, in order to continue to have a sharp fall in the tax burden on companies, including a 4 percentage point drop? Third question, Minister. For us, the capitalisation of companies is indeed very important. Liquidity, the treasury of Portuguese companies, is very relevant. in this sense, I would like to know what from an effective point of view the Minister will do in order to make available to the economy the approximately EUR 1500 million currently allocated to the Financial Institution for Development, common Development Bank. And now, Minister, when do the Capital and Almost Capital Fund and the Debt and Guarantee Fund, which were formed at the end of 2015, effectively reach our economy? Is it available to accept the CDS proposal to have the promotion bank with an aggregate function of the various public entities that exist within the Ministry of Economy such as SMEs Investment, Portugal Ventures, SOFID (Society for Development Financing) or the Mutual Guarantee Society? Is it available to have, in effect, the Development Bank as aggregater of all these financing mechanisms? And is it now available to accept the CDS proposal to have a pre-fixed and pre-determined calendar that allows each of the investors to know when they open the applications of the Development Bank and, more important than that, when the funds are actually made available to the companies? Fourth question, Minister : investment and exports. I would like to ask you a very direct question, Minister: why, when you talk about foreign direct investment, do you only talk about innovation alone and exclusively? I have no doubt that innovation is very important, but it seems to me that we are back in the wrong past, in which the government thinks it knows more than the investors themselves, that is, in which the government tells investors very clearly, in a socializing and totalitarian logic, which are the areas where it can invest. Does it not seem to you that investors know much better what the absolutely essential areas are? Is it available to extend foreign direct investment to all areas and to all materials? And on exports, Minister, I'd like you to tell me...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u275	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u276	I will finish, Mr. President. I hope you give me the same tolerance that you gave the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u277	There was no tolerance. What happened was beyond the intervention time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u278	I would like you to tell me here why the export target was reviewed below and whether it is available to accept a CDS proposal to have by 2020 as a 50 % export target. It is because we believe in Portuguese companies, we believe in investors and workers in Portugal and, of course, you do not believe. Is it available or not to accept these CDS proposals? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u279	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u280	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u281	Mr President, if I may, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau to request the distribution of a report from the European Commission of February this year, delivered and distributed publicly in March, confirming that Portugal was, in 2014 and 2015, the Member State of the European Union which made more transfers (payments to beneficiaries) under Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. You've already understood the nature of the interpellation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u283	Portugal was the number one of Europe...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u284	Mr President, an appeal is not an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u285	...that more transfers did. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u286	The report will be distributed, Mr. To speak, Mr Paulino Ascenção, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the diagnosis is known. The companies are indebted and decapitalized and this is the result of the impoverishment policy carried out in recent years — income cuts, demand reductions — which has led to the withdrawal of economic activity and business activity and the accumulation of losses. however, there are some factors that need to be highlighted. Despite this crisis context, many companies have contracted debts to continue paying dividends. That is, they were indebted to be decapitalized. Despite the crisis, the accumulation of losses, dividends continue to be paid at the same level, obviously to meet the profit expectations of the so-called right-wing investors. This shows us the limits of the economic model based on the speculation of the private company, of profit at all costs, of ethics, greed and also the limits of the model of attraction of foreign investors, which, of course, come here to extract the maximum, decapitalize companies and leave them at waste. This is also the effect of privatization of the bank and a credit strategy oriented towards immediate return. Funding favored speculative sectors rather than productive activity. This reminds us of the importance of having a public bank with an action aligned with those that are the strategic objectives of the country and its targeted economy for long-term productive investment. And here we make the bridge for the New Bank, whose future is still pending, and for the need to consider the maintenance of this Bank in the public sphere. As an alternative or complement, the possibility of this Bank to strengthen the social economy must also be considered, and for example, the agricultural credit system, making this New Bank network a network of economic funds supporting the social economy. This is because if there are companies that retain capital and do not distribute them are cooperatives. If there are companies that do not move, which, on the contrary, are heavily anchored in the territory, they are cooperatives. And if there are companies that do not expatriate profits and show enormous resilience in the face of the crisis, as the White Paper on Social Economy reveals — to resume the initiative, it is cooperatives. Mr Minister, as regards the promotion bank, the IFD ( Financial Institution for Development ), what is the future? Are you going to move on? Are you going to get out of paper? Will it be articulated with the General Deposit Box? With regard to the economic recovery processes, to PER, where 50 % of the processes do not even get approved, nor do they see the recovery process approved, do you see the need to be reformulated this PER so that it is a real mechanism for the recovery of companies or do you think to leave it as it is, since it is a means of feeding the activity of beekeepers, like the Arrows of this country? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u288	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u289	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, I would like first of all to thank the possibility of participating in this debate, to which the Government has called all parties to contribute. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Economic Affairs, for five years now, Portugal has taken on the need for a financial rescue. Since then, economic activity has seen a slow growth, with the business fabric facing serious challenges and with the unemployment rate to remain at a level similar to 2011. when a national reform programme is being discussed, it will be important to consider proposals for new views on the future. It is not enough to provide funds to capitalise Portuguese companies and to encourage economic activities that have been deteriorating our strategic resources, which are finite. I therefore ask whether the Government agrees that the financial effort to be made under this plan should be used preferably to capitalise on companies whose activity focuses on the development of products and services that place Portugal at the forefront of technological, ecological and social innovation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u290	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u291	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries : The Government, in promoting this discussion on the financing and capitalisation of companies, when opening the debate, highlighted a concern about the scope of the debate. He has sought a comprehensive debate on interlocutors — and we will now return to this issue — and on approaches and solutions. But in this area there is an unmistakable aspect, which we want to start by stressing, which is the practical practice of banking in relation to businesses and, in particular, to micro and small enterprises. We see: the year 2015 was marked by the maintenance of historically low interest rates, alongside inflation also low, but, with continued very limited access to credit by companies, the evolution of loans granted to companies over the year has always been with negative variations. The money was there, the spreads were supposed to be low, but the money didn't show up. Businesses can't get there. In January this year, the annual rate of change, in total loans to companies, was still negative. This raises a specific problem that can not only be overcome by decreasing dependence or mitigating this problem, but also by dealing with this situation in a concrete way. The PSD came here again to talk about help and inspiration. It is appropriate to say: « Mr. Minister, watch out for the traps', because when we look at the concrete text presented by the PSD, we can find by means of proposals that raise the greatest concern. Reduce taxation on capital gains? Oh, my God! Reduce, at the IRS headquarters, the taxation of dividends and capital gains? Oh, my God! Additional benefits to entrepreneurship? Oh, my God! Concentration of economic groups, therefore to support pala with public money! Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. PSD Members, it is appropriate to say: « No, thank you! "That's enough! "More than that is not necessary! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” What brought us to this problem we are facing is not what will make us solve the problem. Whoever brought us to this hole won't get us out of it. No, thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! You can go with those proposals! The contribution of the CFP identifies in this discussion the central issue for micro and small enterprises, which is the problem of the operation of the bank in Portugal, the intervention required by the State, in particular through the General Deposit Box, for the rapid granting of credits and credit insurance to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The question of the State assumes a dominant and effective role in the sector, preventing foreign capital from taking positions in strategic sectors of the national bank. The CFP has been underlining this same issue for years, not now. For years we have raised this problem, which we have been advocating for measures to be taken in the financial sector with a view to fixing the ceilings on margins, commissions, interest rates, conditions for access to credit by companies and the implementation of legislative and regulatory measures that prevent unilateral changes in lending spreads, current accounts, discounts, insurance, other forms of credit to businesses and individuals by the financial sector. The PCP has already presented in this Legislation, and it has seen approval, a bill, which is currently in the field of specialty, in this sense. It is important not to waste the opportunity, because we are not talking only about credit to housing, we are talking about the concrete life of companies and the relationship the bank has with these companies, in which the inequality of negotiating power is deeply overwhelming. And we must not fail to point out that there are concrete constraints on the country with the impositions on economic and monetary policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u292	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u293	I will finish, Mr. President. We are talking about an unsustainable public and private debt to a financial sector that has been a bottomless well and, at the same time, implacable to companies. In conclusion, Mr President, we want to say that, from our point of view, it is even necessary to break with the right-wing policy and with these impositions, not to bet on continuity policies, but to bear in mind the position we have stated on the whole framework of the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, its nature and its objectives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u294	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u295	We reaffirm that what is decisive and necessary for the country is first and foremost to ensure the sovereign development of Portugal with a policy free from external taxation, which recovers the instruments of public control from sectors essential to the promotion of national development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u296	To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Domingos from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u297	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members, Minister for Economic Affairs, at this final stage the PSD proposals have been discussed...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u298	He's from the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u299	... and we were very pleased by today's debate on the PSD diploma, because everything the government has is a PowerPoint, which is a outline of intentions, with which it aims to solve a very complicated problem, which is the financing of companies. The PSD today came against a programme that has more than 30 measures, following reforms that were initiated by the previous government, and that effectively solves the important problems of companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u300	Two big economic groups!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u301	... and encourages the savings of families to promote national development. Among these measures, I would point out only a few: to promote the more balanced fiscal treatment of debt and equity; to strengthen the incentive for savings and investment of households within IRS; to conduct an analysis of the impact of current restructuring programmes; to improve access to European and multilateral financing; and to ensure that Portugal 2020 continues to be geared towards results and to maintain a high percentage of reimbursable support, which allows to multiply supported projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u302	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u303	I conclude, Mr. President. Minister, the Government's PowerPoint has less content than the statement of intentions of a Miss World,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u304	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u305	...but business problems are not a beauty contest. The PSD hopes that the government will be able to rely on its concrete measures to effectively solve these problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u306	To reply, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the questions you asked me and the suggestions you gave me. Firstly, I would like to explain that the National Reform Programme is something the Government is committed to and is something in which the Government has concrete proposals, elaborate proposals and quite detailed. however, it is a programme that we want to debate with the country and therefore we first presented the general lines and then some more detailed proposals with the social partners. And, as it has been announced, it will be presented here in Parliament, before the end of the month, even in time for a debate, a more elaborate and detailed document of the Government's proposals and of the contributions not only of the social partners but of course also of the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic, and in this sense we welcome the contributions made by the Social Democratic Party. I will not be involved in paternity discussions, but I must say that the mission structure has, in fact, long and detailed documents, very competent people who have done a serious job, and these measures have already been presented to a wide range of partners in the sector, who have become aware of them and who have made contributions. So there is not yet a closed final document, a document that can be presented as a closed final document, because we are still collecting a number of proposals, but several measures have already been put forward. I must say, moreover, that some of the proposals of the Social Democratic Party that he speaks of, in tax terms, were referred to by me as measures, and are included, because they had already been discussed between me and the mission structure, in interviews I gave on the subject. You may see that they were already there, but I am shocked to see that there are coincidences, first, in the diagnosis. Both the Democratic Social Party and all the parties represented in this House recognise that there are problems of financing and indebtedness of companies and the problem that this is about investment and employment. This is recognised by all, which can help to ensure that this Programme is done with consensus. The measures to be presented — and perhaps that is the difference in what is being done in this National Reform Programme — are comprehensive and this is an integrated programme that includes funding issues. We have already announced and launched lines and axes of support for the financing of companies, the notices are already public and can therefore be seen. Obviously, we are negotiating with the bank and other stakeholders to get them to companies as quickly as possible. But in addition to funding, there are issues of restructuring, taxation, legislation, dynamisation of the capital market and administrative simplification. Working in all these areas is complex and it is good to be in consensus. The worst thing could be done would be to do something very well for then not to be at least in accordance with what the agents on the market expect, or then to be completely at odds with the parliamentary groups of the PCP, the Left Block, the Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party, the CDS and obviously also the PAN and the Greens, with all respect, because I do not want to exclude anyone, and then be reverted or have to be successively altered. It is in this sense that I welcome the initiative and that I leave the invitation to meet with us, with the mission structure, so that they can explain more what they understand in your measures and to what extent, being some similar to what is already proposed, in the specification and in the detail, they are consistent or have some problem that they want to raise, so that you can arrive not to a fully consensual version, because they do not exist, but to a version that brings together as much consensus as possible. This is the work we're doing. Capitalization is a serious problem and it is to be resolved. Several other things have been mentioned here, including the promotion bank and the role of this institution. I think what we have is an institution that is not yet a promotion bank, but we are working for it. What we did was activate this institution, launching warnings from that institution and beginning to use the amount that was there to start creating lines of financing to companies, what we are not doing is politics or politicism with the promotion bank. The promotion bank is something, I think, that several parliamentary groups recognize how it can be a necessary contribution and that we all recognize that it does not yet exist in Portugal. There is an institution that was a project of this and we must try to move forward in this direction. One last answer, on the tax burden, which is of great concern to the CDS — and well! — and also to us, this year will be a year when the tax burden does not increase. The tax burden is a concept we all know and taxation, the level of tax on GDP, will not increase, that is not what is in the Portuguese Government's forecasts either or, I think, in all other forecasts. And, therefore, there is a tax adjustment, and there has been, unlike previous years, no increase in the tax burden. But it's good that we're all vigilant.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u308	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u309	I would just like to point out that this is the first debate on capitalisation, a problem which has been considered very important. I will be here in other debates on innovation, a very important aspect of the National Reform Plan, and there will be several other debates on the various axes of this National Reform Plan that will, exactly, serve to deepen the knowledge and debate about them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u310	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate, so I thank the members of the Government here present, starting with Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u311	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u312	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u313	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will distribute to the various parliamentary groups the implementation reports of the QREN and the 2020 Programme, in order to end once and for all the confusion that the PSD has made on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-06.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Therefore, the PS Parliamentary Group distributes, the Bureau is left without this burden. We are thus finishing our work today. The plenary meets tomorrow and has a very long agenda, of which it consists: firstly, an urgent debate, required by the Government, on qualifications; secondly, the general assessment of draft law No 149 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation of parental responsibilities by mutual agreement with the conservatories of the civil registry in the event of dissolution of de facto unions and similar cases ( PS ) ; three ; joint discussion of draft resolutions 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the sanctioning system by indexing the value of fines to the sales volume of the commercial area as regards labelling, origin of agri-food and lossful sales and by establishing a price observatory for pigmeat ( CDS-PP ), 159 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a programme allowing the restructuring of the short-term credit of pig growers in the medium term, with two years of deficiency, and exempts producers of pig collection costs of animal carcasses ( SIRCA) for a period of 6 months, to reassess at the end of that period ( CDS-PP ), 160 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government exempt producers, spouses and workers in the pigmeat sector from payment to social security for a period of 6 months ( CDS-PP ), 145 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government exempt the payment of social security contributions from producers of raw cow's milk and pig meat producers ( PSD ), 176 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by replacing milk quotas in the European Union and protecting the line of Portuguese milk ( BE) and 208 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of measures to address the problems of pig farming ( CFP ) ; four, the joint assessment of the projects of lein. 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Set the maximum number of students per class ( The Greens ), 148 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establish measures to reduce the number of students per class with a view to improving the teaching-learning process ( CFP ) and 154 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish a maximum number of students by class and by teacher in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education(BE) and draft resolutions 213 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Promotion of school success through strategic and appropriate class size ( CDS-PP ), 216 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the progressive reduction in the number of students per class ( PS ) and 217 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Measures to promote school success ( BE); fifth, discussion of draft resolutions n. 163 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Reposition of legality in the allocation of special education allowance ( BE), 182 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the allocation of special education allowance and ensures clinical support for all children and young people with disabilities ( PCP ) and 219 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reform of the allocation of special education allowance ( PS ) ; and finally, sixth, we have draft resolution No 188 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of European initiatives considered as priority for scrutiny under the European Commission's 2016 work programme (the European Committee on European Affairs ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work, so I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 18 hours and 28 minutes.]]
