ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we enter our agenda, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 316 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the extraordinary tax credit for Investment II ( CFEI II ) ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 317 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the right to gender self-determination ( NAP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Parliamentary assessments 24 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 of 17 August, which adopts a set of complementary rules for the transition process of polytechnic higher education teachers regulated by Decree-Law No 207 / 2009 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 7 / 2010 of 13 May ( PCP ) and 25 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August adopting a doctoral recruitment scheme designed to stimulate scientific and technological employment in all areas of knowledge ( CFP ). Finally, they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 493 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Improve public access to public water, sanitation and waste services ( PCP ), 494 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the measures necessary for UNICER to fully comply with the commitments undertaken under the project PIN in Salgada Stones ( The Greens ), 495 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish the longitudinal route of Portugal — EN2 and its valuation ( PS ), 496 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop all diplomatic efforts to ensure the end of pollution and decontamination of soils and aquifers contaminated with hydrocarbon spills at the Lajes ( BE ) air base, which falls to 11. the Commission, 497 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Measures for the eradication of employment contracts insertion as a mechanism for the completion of permanent needs, for the recognition of labour contracts and for the supervision of the stages promoted by IEFP ( BE ), 498 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of new demolitions, dialogue with populations and recognition of the economic, social and cultural value of the populations of the Isles-Barreira da Ria Formosa ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 499 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the thermal tourism of the Key / Weight of the River ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are going to get on the agenda, the first point of which is to recall the 20th. the anniversary of the CPLP ( Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries). Before you give the floor to the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly like to say that the CPLP is 20 years ago — in fact, it can be said that it is already 20 years ago — and it seems that it was yesterday. It is an opportunity to celebrate, to make a first balance sheet and thus look firmly at the collective future. This morning, several very interesting debates took place in the Assembly of the Republic, a place for this celebration. 42 years ago, Portugal turned the page of international isolation. The Portuguese-speaking African peoples became independent. at the end of the 20th century would be the turn of Timor-Leste. We assume our position as a democratic European State open to the world, but this European condition is not, however, incompatible with our Atlantic vocation and also with our universal vocation, on the contrary. The independence of Portuguese-speaking peoples also does not imply a policy of backs focused on Portugal. We will be and will continue to heal the wounds of colonialism, on behalf of the historical and cultural ties that unite the Portuguese-speaking peoples, on behalf of the common strategic interests. Portugal is strengthened in Europe thanks to its Atlantic and universalist vocation, and we can also say that it is strengthened in the world through that vocation. The other Portuguese-speaking countries are strengthened in the relationship with Europe and with a democratic and European Portugal. I welcome the vision of the generation of statesmen who for 20 years have learned to overcome anachronic blockades and thus establish CPLP, a new community in the concert of nations, a community that has based on a common history and language, a deep connection between peoples and cultures, but a community that is increasingly projected as a community of cooperation, trade, economic development and security. We know how to honor the memory and vision of the founders through the construction of this CPLP of the future. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]] I shall now give the floor to the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party welcomes the celebration of the 20 years of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. It is undoubtedly a special date, a date when we celebrate the meeting of brothers and sisters, able to pave the way for common paths in a global world where there is no place for isolated countries. This meeting of sovereign countries and peoples who know how to give their hands was based on our extraordinary common language, the language of Camões, Jorge Amado and so many other components of universal culture, without which there would be no CPLP. As Mia Couto said, « Our common language was built by old ties, so old that we sometimes lost track of them. once and for all, we overcome fears and ghosts. once and for all, we will love the future so that he will fall in love with us." It is precisely in the name of this future that we today exalt our common values. But for that, we cannot forget all those who, in some way or another, have contributed to the CPLP being a reality today. This is the time to say thank you to so many, often unknown, who symbolically here I evoke, quoting figures like José Aparecido de Oliveira, Marcolino Moco, Joaquim Chissano, Armindo Vaz de Almeida, Mascarenhas Monteiro, João Bernardo Vieira, José Sarney, José Eduardo dos Santos, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Aníbal Cavaco Silva, António Guterres, Durão Barroso, Jaime Gama, António Monteiro and later, but no less important, Xanana Gusmão, Ramos Horta and today, Murade Muragy. However, we are well aware that the successes achieved will only be consolidated with new challenges that must be met globally. Of course, it is important that the new strategic vision is applied based on the principle that CPLP does not have, or will, owners. Its success is through cohesion, sharing, mutual respect, cooperation. in this logic, it is important to develop joint mechanisms that promote common experiences in the field of political-diplomatic cooperation, education, approximation between university institutions and training, the movement of people, particularly students, teachers, researchers and entrepreneurs, the creation of business networks, the development of a common digital agenda and the improvement of Portuguese teaching and dissemination policies through the concerted action of governments and the strengthening of the International Institute of Portuguese Language (ILP). Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something of fundamental importance that we do not want to lose sight of today. We must not forget the importance of the global assumption of the intransigent defence of human rights, freedom of expression and democratic participation, areas in which diplomatic dialogue and dialogue must be deepened. And, speaking in consultation, being in the Assembly of the Republic, I would like to stress the strategic importance of the CPLP Parliamentary Assembly, a body indispensable for the promotion of this democratic dialogue, capable of overcoming the small differences on behalf of the great global interests of the peoples we represent. in the same way, we also stress the extraordinary importance of the election of Antonio Guterres to UN Secretary-General, knowing all of us about the full involvement of all CPLP countries in their success and the importance that their performance will also have for this great collective project. I shall finish, Mr. President, Mr. Members, remembering premonitionally a small poem of a popular artist, Martinho da Vila, who, a little from all over the world, never got tired of singing the Lusophony: « I dream of seeing a day/ music and poetry/ overlap with weapons/ in the fight for an ideal/ and advocate/ Lusophony/ in universal diplomacy». [[Congratulations from PSD, CDS-PP and PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u5	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: CPLP is an original multilateral organization. It is spread across several continents and has its own identity linked to the language and cultures of its Member States. It has already a considerable heritage of achievements and has undoubtedly an increasing attraction in other countries and organizations who also want to have observer status. by celebrating its 20th. the Anniversary, the CPLP looks at itself, for the globalized world in which it is inserted, but also for the future, with confidence, as it is evident by the new strategic vision that will be approved at the summit of Brasília. As a relatively young organization, CPLP still has a huge potential that can develop, particularly in the economy, in political-diplomatic cooperation and strategic cooperation. With everyone's commitment, CPLP is such an important instrument of global affirmation as for the internal development of each of its members. Just think about achieving the ambitious objectives of the action plans of Brasília and Lisbon that define common goals for the promotion of language, access to education and culture and scientific development. Indeed, the CPLP has come to remain, because everyone understands that what may eventually separate us is insignificant in relation to the strength of what unites us, the common language and the affections forged over the centuries, which enables us to affirm, without empty rhetoric, that we are brothers peoples. And that is why the election of Antonio Guterres to the Secretary-General of the United Nations is also a victory for the Lusophony and its vast universe, including the important diasporas of CPLP countries that multiply our presence almost to the planetary scale in more than 150 countries. It is through the language and the affections that come to us the echoes of our universalism by the writing of Jorge Amado, of Persona, of Pepetela, of Mia Couto or of Germano Almeida. It is through the language and the affections that spread throughout the world the sounds of fado and bossa nova, mornas and coladas, the richness of multiculturalism and cultural diversity. The Portuguese language is an open window to the sea. It's an open window for the world. It is an integral part of our history, of our collective identity, of our imagination. Like any multilateral organization, CPLP faces ongoing challenges of its internal dynamics. It needs to strengthen its institutions, particularly the International Institute of the Portuguese Language, and to have adequate resources to function effectively. It needs to be more rooted in national public opinions and progress in citizenship and mobility in CPLP space, creating more opportunities for students, workers and investors. But you also need to take care, in permanence, of your identity, of your constituent values and principles. The defence of the common language and cultural diversity, peace and political stability, democracy and the rule of law, human rights and social justice must form the basis of our collective strength. If we think about the demographic projections for the CPLP set, we can easily see a huge potential for the future. It is expected that after 2050 there will be at least 350 million speakers in our language. It is therefore this rich and vast heritage that we celebrate here today. We welcome the language, affections and solidarity, friendship and the ability of peoples to overcome their historical differences. We celebrate an organization that we want stronger, stronger and more and more proud for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u7	I have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: CPLP, Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, celebrates 20 years. It was an important step that allowed us, in our historical process, to find ourselves with peoples, with friends, with connections, after a black period of colonialism. The CPLP goes beyond this historical period, of which Portugal is not so proud. And do it with a relevant qualitative leap. All the countries that joined the CPLP have done so freely and on an equal footing. It is therefore also a celebration of the respect these countries have for each other and a celebration of the guarantee that there is no protection in the CPLP, but rather an equality between countries which together can lead to a better future. I highlight two of the founding principles of CPLP. The first principle is based on the primacy of values such as peace, democracy, the rule of law, good governance, human rights and social justice. The second founding principle is the CPLP's commitment to promoting cooperation among its members, with the aim of promoting democratic practices, good governance and respect for human rights. It is obvious that, to these principles, it joins, as the name says, the Portuguese language itself, factor of affections, factor of experiences, factor of proximity. It is also in these values that CPLP itself is rooted, something that we cannot forget in the future, this requirement that has been legislated to us over the last 20 years. The peoples who join the CPLP accompany their activities in a global context, in an integration of globalization and in an interdependence that can be favorable to all, because the language is also an economic factor. But if we demand that there are no owners in the CPLP - the PSD said, still recently, that CPLP has no owners and we follow this idea - it cannot fail to have values. That is the key point for the future. The primacy of democracy, the primacy of human rights, the primacy of the rule of law are fundamental values of the CPLP and which in recent years have not had due appreciation. The acceptance of the entry of Equatorial Guinea is perhaps the most relevant point, which demonstrates how the founding principles of CPLP are not being valued as they should be. I think that's embarrassing us all. The fact that democracy and the rule of law in some of the CPLP countries are not being respected is something that must be of concern to us. It is true that the CPLP has no owners and we respect the right of every people to whom there is no interference in their internal protection, in their destinations, in their democracies. But today, democracy is a global requirement and therefore CPLP cannot give up being a promotion factor for the positive development of this civilizational advancement that is established in its founding principles. Otherwise, it will not have a great future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u9	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila spoke for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Celebrating the 20 years of the CPLP is celebrating the past, but above all it is celebrating the past to project the future we want. To celebrate the 20 years of CPLP is to celebrate two decades of a common path; it is to reaffirm the continuity of values and interests in which national foreign policy is based; it is to renew our commitment to one of the main strategic insertion spaces of Portugal, the lusophone space; it is to revitalize a coexistence based on strong links of cooperation and based on a language spoken by over 200 million inhabitants. Celebrating the 20 years of CPLP is still actively participating in the approval of the new strategic vision of CPLP, which represents a manifestation of confidence in ourselves and each other ; it is decisively advancing in a common, active, effective and comprehensive strategy of defence and language projection; it is consolidating its common trunk and improving articulation in public policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, celebrating the 20 years of CPLP is looking to the future and wanting our community to be increasingly a citizenship project, in a space of greater mobility for citizens, entrepreneurs and students. It is to look at the future and want our community to be increasingly an area of opportunity and of deepening the business relations of the States, but above all, of the citizens of those States. It is to look at the future and want our community to be more than a communication vehicle and can be an expression of our influence and affirmation in the world. It is our ambition to give economic substrate and institutional weight to our language. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the first time, we have a luxophone in front of the United Nations. The challenge of making Portuguese an official language of the United Nations remains. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u13	I wanted to finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with a simple final message. The CPLP is with everyone, it is not one to indicate a certain standard, whether it is a European standard, an African standard or any other standard. Our wealth, the wealth of CPLP, is the coexistence of all these standards. For the CDS-PP, Mrs and Mrs. Members, 20 years later CPLP continues to make sense. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u14	Mr Carla Cruz has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After 20 years of the constitution of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, the stated principles and values that were at the origin of their creation are an unmistakable righteousness and modernity. They are principles such as the sovereign equality of States, non-interference in the internal affairs of each State, respect for their territorial integrity and national identity, and reciprocity of treatment. The values are those of peace, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, social justice and, no less important, the promotion of development and mutually advantageous cooperation or the right of each people to decide sovereignly the forms of their own political, economic and social development. These are principles whose fairness and modernity are reaffirmed, taking into account the time in which we live. This time is also marked by threats to peace and numerous maneuvers of interference and operations of destabilization and aggression against sovereign States. Therefore, the principles governing the CPLP should be clearly defended and fully implemented. The objectives that guided the creation of the CPLP must also be fully implemented, including cooperation in all fields, including education, health, science and technology and also defence, agriculture, public administration, communications, justice, public security, culture, sport and social communication. in the same way, the realisation of projects for the promotion and dissemination of Portuguese language, in particular through the International Institute of Portuguese Language. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the introduction of new dimensions in the CPLP should be carried out for the achievement of these objectives and not for their distortion or subversion. It understands the PCP that the CPLP should not be transformed into any agreement, area or treaty on trade and services liberalization. On the contrary, the CPLP should be a space with its own originality, not undermining aspects of any other area of integration such as the European Union. We defend that the Portuguese State must intervene within the framework of the CPLP by affirming the principles and values that it has been and must continue to be, on the basis of the existence of a Community of Portuguese-speaking countries and that, according to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, they must contribute to the maintenance of privileged ties of friendship and cooperation with the countries and peoples of the CPLP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u16	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Green Group of the European Parliament, I would like to greet the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries and its 20. the Anniversary. I also wanted to take the opportunity to welcome the 20th Memorial Seminar. the anniversary of the CPLP, held today in the Assembly of the Republic, which discussed such issues relevant to the CPLP and which I believe has been an appropriate initiative. The Greens attach great importance to this area of strategic partners in development cooperation and in areas as relevant as the environment — with so many challenges in this area today — and also in areas such as education, health, and hopefully still in other areas, such as food security. The common identity, which binds us through such an intense heritage as the Portuguese language, is a binder pole among peoples, with such intense bonds of friendship that, despite territorial discontinuities, are linked by very strong historical and cultural factors. Although it may also be relevant to say that this territorial discontinuity is, or ends up being itself, an advantage of presence on several continents, a mark of the CPLP in the world. There are challenges in this area, such as the intermobility of citizens, the intensification of the promotion of knowledge, research, science, art, culture, the dynamics for environmental sustainability, the intensification of teaching and cooperation in teaching and the dissemination of Portuguese language. In the face of these challenges, the need for inclusive and always involved responses is placed, but always, by the dignity of the peoples, these answers that a strong CPLP certainly helps to build. in this regard, Mr President, The Greens welcome 20. the Anniversary of CPLP. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u18	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To mark today the existence of the CPLP and its work in the context of the consultation and cooperation between multiple cultural expressions of the Member States is a cause for great satisfaction for us. We welcome the CPLP for its remarkable achievements in strengthening dialogue, sharing, exchanging consistent experiences, multilateral policies and networking. over 20 years of existence, many will certainly have been the challenges in strengthening relationships and in the demand and articulation that have allowed the process of development and governance of Portuguese-speaking countries. I recall that the CPLP was born from the desire to unite a group of countries that share the same language, historical and cultural ties, a set of humanist and universal values and that want to place their joint action in the service of development, progress and the well-being of their peoples, but the progress and well-being of peoples does not depend solely on the dynamisation of economic and business cooperation. at this point we need a paradigmatic, political and ideological change. The area of the earth globe occupied by the nine CPLP Member States is very large, represents 7 % of the planet and covers four continents — Europe, America, Africa and Asia. The poorest countries are the most vulnerable to extreme climate phenomena, associated with climate change, which puts the richest countries in the face of an ecological debt that began with colonialism and which is still continuing in the most diverse ways today. The richest countries thus have an ethical responsibility that goes beyond purely economic matters. Globalization cannot mean domination, but must be at the service of true inclusion. Development factors such as entrepreneurship and innovation call for significant changes in discourse and political, diplomatic and business priorities. Entities such as CPLP have a decisive potential in this paradigm change, and this may be the pioneer objective for the next 20 years. We need to scale globally small solutions on green technologies, local legislation, bilateral treaties and carbon taxes for strong commitments between nations, cities and individuals in adopting courageous measures to make the Paris conference goals a possible reality. Not all growth is good and social problems cannot be solved without solving the ecological recession in which we live. We've been living credit since August 8 this year. Humanity is already consuming more than all the resources that the planet is able to renew annually, which makes the global ecological footprint incredibly superior to the capacity to regenerate the earth. The obstacles that continue today to deepen relations between the Lusophone countries can be overcome with the appearance of protagonists with truly innovative perspectives for a constructive and interdisciplinary change. Deep ecological thinking must become a priority or we will continue to perpetuate various deficiencies for the populations. Mr President, I conclude by saying that all the decisive, legal and social transformations of the last 150 years have been the result of massive social movements either in favour of women's rights, the abolition of slavery or civil rights. We need this robustness now with regard to climate change and global ecological policies and the space of the Lusophony is a privileged stage for this experience.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u20	Mrs. Members, we now move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of a current debate, marked by the CDS-PP, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic on the theme « Breakdown of Public Services: the invoice of the left-wing agenda ». To open the debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u21	Mr President, Mr Members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members: This debate we raise about the rupture of public services or the bill of the left agenda goes beyond the official propaganda of turning the page of austerity. It is a debate about the austerity of the left and it is also a debate about the very real life from day to day in hospitals, in schools, on the street, in public services. It is a debate on budgetary implementation in addition to numbers, on very real budgetary implementation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is a debate about calling things by names and which has to do with the following: we finally understand what the PS meant when, in his programme, he was talking about — and I quote — « defending an intelligent reading of budgetary discipline». In translation, this means that the government imposes severe cuts, which are now called cuts but captivating, and the parties that support it here, of the two one: in a few days, they look to the side and nothing they see, nothing they hear and nothing they say; in other days, they cry " tears of crocodile" and affirm great protests, but when the time of truth comes, which is the hour of vote, they say amen and lower their heads. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, in the past, this political hypocrisy has reached a truly unbelievable degree of refinement. There is already a Member here who, within Parliament, supports the government and then goes to the street to protest against it. Maybe it's time to decide... But let's talk about it from day to day and start with the transport sector, a flag sector of this new left-wing government. in the beginning all were eases, reversals and return to the past in accelerated vision. however, quickly, the citizens realized that what was the ideological paradise of the most radical left is, in reality, the hell that many citizens face daily, especially in port and Lisbon. This is the case, for example, of the endless rows in some stops to catch buses and trains always delayed and full. This, when they pass and are not, for some reason, interrupted or will not happen on that day. This is also the case with the perfectly unbelievable situation of the subway tickets, with thousands of people unable to buy a ticket. The Minister for the Protection says — it is a bit surprising — that it was a coincidence. Minister, this is what I call choice and incompetence. Azar seems to me the worst word to describe this daily hell because many lisboets pass through. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Only in the first half of this year were 4500 complaints about public transport, 25 complaints per day. With regard to hospitals, we have the famous centralisation office which makes it impossible at any hospital to make an investment acquisition, which may, for example, be repairing a machine of exams that has failed or even acquire medicines without the permission of the Minister and the guardianship, to not mention payments in late EUR 262 million. When are you guys? Members of this House, who talk about the replacement of income, will realize that they have payments in late EUR 262 million is to make, in time, a cut of EUR 262 million in the income of the workers of these companies? They also have rights! [[CDS-PP applause.]] But there are no concrete examples of the reality of cuts here. This policy also arrived at schools and, apparently and unfortunately, it came to stay. It was necessary to wait seven months, already with the school year in operation, and there are closed schools or threatening closure to unlock the competitions for non-teachers. Apparently they would have been, but in very few numbers. The problem is far from being solved and we have been confronted with announcements of schools that close, as was the case of EB1 António Nobre, in the Grouping of Schools of Oranges, and open in precarious conditions resorting to assistants, in the case of a childhood garden. Also in higher education, we have heard many times about the problems that the captivating of EUR 44 million to universities has caused to several institutions. I remember, in ancient times, hearing very inflamed protests about the start of the school year and the social insensitivity of the government. I don't know what the PS, the PCP and the Left Block will now call this, they will call social sensitivity or care with public services. Maybe they call it public service bet. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not betting, that is, in good Portuguese, they are cuts and are trouble running for lack, pure and simple money. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Also in security, the wave of cuts arrived : of the competition which was approved for the formation of 800 new police, 500 were left out, the government only approved 300. This is not to speak of the thousands of pre-appointments that remain in the drawer waiting for authorization, saying the Minister "that is not with me, it is with Mr. Minister for Finance". I suppose this is also social sensitivity and care with areas of sovereignty. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course we have never denied the sacrifices that the Portuguese had to make in recent years, especially during the period of the troika. That is precisely why we are betting on cautious, secure policies that do not compromise the future and that do not allow Portugal to go through this again. But what we will certainly never accept is what we have seen, which is the policy of hiding the truth and "throwing sand for the eyes" of the Portuguese, pretending that things are not what they are and that reality is not what they see every day. It is a policy in which the courts begin to call savings, to the serious difficulties in services call efficiency and, more so, to the ranks that grow every day in transport, hospitals or open schools call public service bet. Me, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I call them disrespect for those who work. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u22	Madam Member, at the request of her Parliamentary Group, which the honourable Member has used most of her speech in the following speech. Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS has completely lost sense: it is a year away from the government and has already forgotten all the evils it has done to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS was part of a government that has launched the greatest attack on public transport since 25 April. For four years, the urban transport of Porto has worsened and the urban transport of Lisbon has worsened; for four years, it has disinvested in public transport companies. I remind you, Mrs. Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, that for four years, from 2011 to 2015, Carris had fewer than 700 workers, the Metro of Lisbon had fewer than 300 workers, Transtejo and Soflusa had fewer than 80 workers. Only in the urban transport of Lisbon, these companies had fewer than 1080 workers. From 2011 to 2015, the former government, of which the CDS was part, invested in maintenance, invested in circulating material, invested in infrastructures, disinvested in mathematics, disinvested in service. During these four years, the offer of service in Porto and Lisbon was reduced by 25 %. But this had a strategy, which was to make these companies, with this damage, desirable for privatizations and for private sub-concessions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And only a new parliamentary majority and a new government is that they have blocked this obsessive agenda by the PSD and the CDS. I would finish this by giving some indicators that successfully improve the service in urban transport in Lisbon and Porto, contrary to all that the CDS said. The demand for urban transport in Lisbon, until September, compared to the same period of 2015, grew by 2, 5 % and in the Lisbon Metro grew by 10 %. The search in September at STCP, in Porto, grew 7, 1 % compared to the same month of 2015. The number of claims in the STCP, between January and September 2016, declined by 81 % compared to 2015. These data reveal that the path adopted by this new majority, the reversal of sub-concessions to privates, the decentralization of urban transport operations in Lisbon and Porto are positive data, improve service and, above all, go to meet what is expected of users. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u24	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has, and well, scheduled this current debate on public services. The CDS, which incorporated a government that will remain for history as the government that failed to hide its aversion to everything that was public,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u26	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u27	... the CDS, which integrated the government that most weakened public services and looked disdainfully at the social functions of the state, has now remembered the public services. It's always better late than ever. Welcome to the club! But what is true is that the previous government has invested in public services, especially in the field of health without parallel in our history and, of course, has contributed decisively to the reduction of the capacity to respond to public services and, of course, to health services. In fact, the situation we have lived for three years in hospital emergencies has clearly reflected this disinvestment on the part of the PSD Government and the CDS-PP in a sector as sensitive as the health sector. A drama that resulted in the de-investment by the PSD Government / CDS in the National Health Service, but also in the limitations imposed on hospitals to be able to contract early health professionals; in the options of the previous government regarding the use of temporary work enterprises; in the containment of costs and the closure of health services. In fact, the health policy of the previous government basically sat on four central axes: blind cuts in an area as sensitive as health; closure of services throughout the country; a deliberate effort to attribute health costs to users; and, finally, a concern to fatten the private sector market with health interests. This was the health policy of the PSD government / CDS. The same is said about justice with the closure of courts and the consequent overload of those who have received the proceedings of the courts they have closed, which has brought even more delay in our justice. We could also talk about public transport and the de-investment that the previous government has made at this level, as well as about the redundancies it has made in this sector. But more: the PSD/CDS government, through its reform of the local business sector, has put an end to the privatization of municipal enterprises, but it has forgotten, I do not know whether intentionally or deliberately, the most important. And most importantly, what this government and others should pay more attention to, has completely gone along with this reform, has not even been considered. And most importantly, what should be the guiding basis for the concerns of the previous government in this area was to ensure the interests of the people and the workers involved. But as we have seen, the interest of the people and the workers of these companies, and even that of democratic control itself, was zero in this reform of the PSD / CDS government. What was of interest to this government was to continue its saga against public services and, above all, make use of the magic word of the PSD / CDS government : fire! Say good-bye was the order word of the PSD Government / CDS, which also accompanied him until the last days of his government. In view of this framework, which is indeed strange to the public interest, measures are in fact required to ensure the continuity of the provision of essential public services for the people and to ensure the effectiveness of the principle of universality of these services. We cannot ignore the great contribution to the fragility of public services that has been made by the PSD Government and the CDS. Public services are very fragile, with lack of people and lack of technical means, it is true, but it is also true that the situation has been greatly aggravated by the passage of the PSD/CDS government by the country's destinations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u28	Now we're guilty of everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u29	They were guilty of everything and much more, so we're not here yet! You've done so much wrong that it's hard to get there, but we'll have to get there! [[PSD protests.]] I know that it is difficult for you to hear, but these are the facts, and against the facts of the hat! The responsibility of the previous government in the situation that is created, especially if we take into account that between 2011 and 2015 the Government of the PSD and the CDS has destroyed about 78 000 jobs in the Public Administration...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u30	How much? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u31	78 000 posts have been destroyed in the Public Administration! It's a lot of jobs! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u32	All right, ladies and gentlemen, it was only 77 999! Instead of talking about the « left-wing agenda invoice », the most correct thing would be to talk about the invoice that Portuguese continue to pay as a result of the options of the PSD government and the CDS. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u33	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Bureau no longer registers to intervene in this debate. [[Pause.]] With no registrations, we will move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u34	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u35	To what effect, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u36	Mr President, I assume that the practice is that the Government will speak immediately before the last intervention of the party proposing the debate. I do not know whether the parliamentary groups will or will not sign up, but we do not want to stop intervening and therefore ask the Bureau to sign us up for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u37	Since there are no rules on this matter, what will happen is that, with no inscriptions — what has been almost happening today — next time we will adopt the rule definitely not to give the floor. in these debates, which are essentially an appeal to the Government, which in my view makes sense that the first intervention following the proposed party is that of the Government, even if the Government can allow time for the end of the debate. If there were no entries, the Bureau would conclude the debate and move on to the next item on the agenda, but, in this case, by registering on the part of the Government, it may intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u38	Mr. President, I just said that the government has signed up to speak...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u39	All right, I just meant that, as there is no rule on this situation, next time there will be no such opportunity. You then have the floor for an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the CDS-PP bench for the scheduling of this debate on public services. And I welcome it because it seems to me an attempt to contribute after four years of degradation of public services, after a strategy that not only failed in the objective of consolidating public accounts as it characterized itself as being a deliberate degradation of public service in education, health, transport, social action, justice, centralization of decisions, removing public management from citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this reason, we find it positive that those who, over these four years, were proud to reduce the number of educational establishments, to reduce tens of thousands of teachers, to reduce spending affects the public health service, to degrade the supply of public transport, to place courts to judge more than 100 km of the citizens concerned in the cases, now, in good time, to schedule a debate on the defence of the public service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Welcome the CDS to your Christian Democratic tradition. Repentance is a Christian value that we should welcome in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] That is why the CDS, which incorporated a government, failing the public service, also failed in the one who was the alpha and the omega of its policy, failed in the debt that rose from less than 100 % of GDP to 130 % of GDP and failed in the deficit that, in 2016, in the second quarter, in national accounting, has a value that is significantly lower than 2015 and that is half of the deficit recorded in 2014, the deficit of the famous clean exit. Mrs. Members of the CDS, the deficit in 2014 was at the end of the second quarter 6 % and is now 2, 8 %. This is the comparison in what was the central objective of your policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u41	What about 2008? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u42	But they failed essentially, let's go to what they hostileized the Portuguese. We will compare a strategy that has led to the reduction of nearly 30 000 people from places in education, four years after the reduction of the education budget, with a budget that increases the expenditure on education, which extends the preschool to the four years of schooling, which increases the full-time school, which responds to the needs of administrative support in schools and which makes the opening of the school year not news and which, instead of the stress and tragedy of recent years, took place with teachers placed in time and with the schools to open calmly the school year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u43	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u44	in health, the difference is in concern in the response to the needs of citizens: there was a reduction in the number of citizens without a family doctor — 500 000 citizens at least without a family doctor — more than 200 retired doctors returned to service, incentives were given to the establishment of doctors in the areas of the interior, where there is also the right to health. in justice, dozens of courts have been closed and, in the Assembly of the Republic, the debate is now being held which allows for its reopening. on the transport side of elections, they tried to make illegal public adjustments, direct adjustments of EUR 900 million for the transport of port. What happened was that all the municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, regardless of their political orientation, concluded an agreement with the Government for the decentralized management of transport in the Metropolitan Area. We could therefore go from sector to sector in the service of the citizen: with your government it was the return of bureaucracy, the abandonment of the Simplex ; this government places as priority the Simplex +— in one year we opened more shops of the citizen than they opened during the four years of your government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u45	Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : We already knew three invoices of left-wing governance and of the choices of Antonio Costa. We already knew that we had to pay more and more taxes on everything and something else, that we had to suffer with a stopped economy, with the fall in investment and the slowdown in exports, employment and even family income. We know that we have a public debt to record, but we also know now, and more and more, this fourth and heavy bill, the rupture of public services and the paralysis of the social state. Yes, Minister and left-wing parties, it is you who are in government, those responsible for public services, and for a year you have been responsible for failing and breaking up, especially because they are the result of your choices. [[PSD applause.]] It was you who decided to make the biggest reduction in the memory of public investment. Yes, it was you who decided to use and transfer money, which should be to invest in public services in the long term, to distribute some blessings in the short term. And the decision to return to 35 hours of weekly work not only reduces work in public services and reduces the service period as it requires that they seek money, which was for investment and the use of consumables, to cover other expenses and, once again, your decisions and your blessings. Yes, it is your decisions, when payments are increased late, a wrong behavior that they have already brought to your back. It is a mark of your government. Every time the Socialist Party is in government, late payments increase and, indeed, public services are damaged. The same is true when they takeovers and cutoffs in transfers to public services and return structural reforms, especially in education. But this rupture in public services is a behavior that afflicts people, disturbs people's lives. The rupture in the public services that you have caused is equivalent to worse conditions. For example, in transport, not a week ago, there is no day when you don't talk and never see delays and lines ever seen, carriages and ships stopped without maintenance, because you need to take parts for others, and remove transport careers. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And, yes, all this the Communist Party itself has already acknowledged. Mr Minister, in health, not a year has passed and we have seen something unpublished, that it was all the agents in the sector come together to say that in health there is an emergency situation. Mr Minister, this is also the result of your governance, of your choices! It is that hospitals already have only money to pay salaries, do not invest and even have difficulty buying equipment and utensils from their daily lives and therefore accumulated more than 50 % late payments in six months. in education, yes, Mr Minister, in the first school year in which you are in government, there are schools that do not open for lack of employees,... [[PS protests.]] ... there are schools that have no money to pay for electricity and water, there are students who have to bring home toilet paper,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u47	A little decorum! There are minimum limits!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u48	... there are delays in payments to professional schools, there are support units to students with special educational needs that are closed. [[PS protests.]] Minister, this is the result of your choices. The Portuguese are paying with worse access and worse quality the mistakes of your choices and the incompetence of your management. They have again made sense of the phrase that the greatest enemy in the social state is the broken state. That's what you're doing. This is the price to be paid not only for the radicalization of the Socialist Party, but for the complicit silence of several of its radical partners, who previously decreed the death of the social state. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] What's happening is your responsibility. It's another bill of your government's mistakes. The social state is worse, the Portuguese are worse, because of socialist governance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u49	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concern of the CDS — and PSD, by drag, although the PSD did not have the initiative to be concerned about public services —... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u51	...it's just not touching, because it's hopelessly opportunistic. And we are not, with this finding of opportunism of the CDS, denying the existence of problems, weaknesses, deficiencies and difficulties in public services. What we are asking is the legitimacy of the CDS to come here « tear garments » on behalf of the quality of public service in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And I'd like to explain why. Let us start with education: less EUR 1223 million between 2010 and 2014 — the work of the Government of the CDS / PSD; less 2500 schools, i.e., 2500 schools closed — the work of the former Government; less 30 000 teachers — the work of the former Government; precariousness and abuse in contracts. And what, for four years, have we heard the CDS say about this? Zero! Nothing! They spent four years denying any problem in public school. But we move on to health: from 2011 to 2014, minus EUR 1500 million of investments. We have the OECD and the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems to say that cuts in the National Health Service were far beyond what was required by the troika. We have an increase in moderate rates. We have the end of transport support for non-emergency patients. We have precariousness and lack of means over four years. What did the CDS say over the last four years? Zero! Nothing! He did nothing but deny the problems in the National Health Service. Let us move on to transport: plus 15 % in the transport price; attack on quality; decrease in the number of carriages; decrease in the number of careers. Sérgio Monteiro was actually the cover of the national transport service in Portugal, and in particular the transport service in Lisbon. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And Mr. Leitão Amaro is only impressed with the lines on the Carris because he hasn't been on transport a year ago. It is that the same ranks were already there and were caused by the Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro. You must have the notion of this! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] But we can continue: financial counters closed throughout the country; social security balconies granted to private or para-private entities; courts closed throughout the country; and, above all, a reality that the PSD and the CDS ignore: is that there are no public services without valuing public officials. And the biggest attack the PSD and CDS made was to public employees, forcing them to work longer hours for the same salary, cutting their salary and creating an ideological battle against public officials in Portugal. So, yes, when this majority returned to 35 hours of work, when this majority eliminated cuts in the salaries of public servants, when this majority valued public servants and all that they gave by the country, it was also valuing public service. This is a reality that the right will never understand, for what you have done in the past. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have this discussion on public services seriously without valuing the point of departure. The starting point is the brutal attack on the public service done by the right. And the attack on public service is a budgetary attack, but more than that, it is an ideological attack. It is an ideological attack when the right replaced emancipation by assistanceism, when it replaced universality by choice, and the choice is nothing more than leaving the public service to the poor and letting the rich choose the private service. It is also an ideological attack, when it replaced solidarity by charity, when the reintroduction of the Church was admitted in the provision of basic services of the State and when hospitals were handed over to mercy. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That's why, sirs. Members, if the title of this debate speaks on the left-hand agenda for public services—and now we are going to the left-hand agenda—, I think it was very good for democracy, it was very good for the Assembly of the Republic if the right, in particular the CDS, took on its own ideological agenda for public service without fear. It is that its ideological agenda is the opposite of the universality and freeness of public services which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic enshrines. It's the opposite! The CDS has an ideological agenda contrary to these principles and would greatly appreciate the debate if this ideological agenda was admitted. We can now also talk about the agenda on the left. I can't speak all over the left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u52	You can't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u53	...but only by the Left Block. [[That could be it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u54	I can therefore say that our priorities have not changed and that we look forward to all the priorities that have been and are still ours. Our agenda is the fight against precariousness, which the PSD Government and the CDS have hidden. So we forced the current government to do an audit so that we finally knew the number of precariouss in public service, which we asked the PSD government for so many years, but the PSD hid and never gave us those numbers. We therefore negotiated and passed new laws to combat precariousness, with the votes against the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u55	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u56	I will finish, Mr. President. We therefore negotiated and supported the hiring of assistants for Portuguese public schools, contrary to the model of precariousness that the PSD and CDS defended. Our agenda is to fight the rents, yes. And that is why we defend the end of incomes that "cannibalize" the public service in order to have more investment in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u57	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u58	I will finish, Mr. President. The gentlemen. Members will say that it is not enough to do what they defend and defend. And you're right, it's not enough, you need to go much further. But one thing is true: it is much more than what you have offered to the country. in fact, it's the opposite of what CDS and PSD have offered to the country in recent years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u59	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Mr Minister, in this debate, we want to address the government and we also want to take advantage of it to put on the table and go to meet those who are the concerns of the workers and the people. We cannot take seriously what the CDS said here, because indeed the CDS was responsible for the degradation of public services. More: In addition to being responsible for its degradation, he was also responsible for the worsening of the provision of public services in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u62	Therefore, in view of what was its government practice, what we have withdrawn from here is that there is no real concern about the situation of public services, with its accessibility by the citizens,. Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u64	... otherwise it would not have promoted privatization, closures, cuts in financing, attack on workers' rights. But, Minister, we want to take this opportunity that the CDS has given us in the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the specific problems faced by the people, problems that the CFP has long been putting in this House. We did not wake up to these problems today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u65	But it seems!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u66	In addition, we have long been raising concerns about the quality of public services, about the need to guarantee workers' rights, about the need for public services of proximity and quality. We have not agreed today on transport problems — in fact, what exists today in our country is the result of the political options of the previous government, when it led to a brutal de-investment in public transport, non-maintainment of circulating material, high costs for the population and reduced schedules and careers. But, Minister, we can also talk about health problems, which today many Portuguese continue to feel, namely, accessibility, lack of a family doctor or a family nurse, and the fact that the former government has concentrated services and valences, which has led to profound difficulties. But we also remember, Mr Minister, by means of the health cuts, that the emergency services had been in broken situations, while members of the former Government had come here to say that there was no problem, that they were all having access to health. Now, reality, it shows exactly the opposite. We can also bring here concerns about the lack of operational assistants in schools, concerns about the lack of staff to monitor students with special educational needs, problems that continue to be solved and which have been greatly aggravated by previous governance of the PSD and the CDS, as well as the problem of the high number of students per class. We also want to bring here the concerns regarding postal service, because following the privatization of CTTs by the PSD and the CDS there are now more delays in postal distribution, there is a delay in postal distribution, there is a reduction in the hours of operation of the CTTs and even the deviation of workers, who, instead of being employed in postal service, are diverted to services related to the CTT Bank. With regard to justice, we also remember the one who was the removal of the courts from the population, now being the Assembly of the Republic, also at the initiative of the CFP, to discuss a different process of reversal of these same closures. Mr Minister, while he cannot take the questions and statements brought here by the PSD and the CDS seriously, there are concrete aspects to which it is necessary to answer. One of them, which I would like to stress here, has to do with the employees of the Public Administration, because, in order to have quality public services, we need to have the workers needed, valued and with their rights respected. Between 2011 and 2015, the Public Administration lost 78 000 workers. It was 78 000 jobs that were destroyed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u68	... at the same time as there was an incentive to precariousness, with employment-inclusion contracts (IEC), with internships, with hiring workers, as happens, for example, in schools, with part-time recruitment, which in some cases is less than four hours to not even pay the meal allowance to these same workers. We believe that it is necessary to put an end to this path. And because the CFP is part of the solution, it is not part of the problems today in the Assembly of the Republic, we are going to discuss a precisely initiative to combat precariousness, to guarantee workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u69	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u70	This is also an important time to see those who really want to solve the concrete problems that affect our population, which affect Portuguese workers, because, without any doubt, it was always on this side that the PCP was. In fact, in the past, when we brought here initiatives to prevent the closure of public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u71	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u72	... only the PSD and CDS voted against, which well reveals the political options of who is next to the public interests, who is next to the workers. It's on this side that the PCP is and will continue to be. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u73	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have heard here — and I am responding — in opportunism, despoiling and shamelessness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u75	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u76	I would like to say, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, that opportunism is to be against outside and come to vote in favour here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u77	Are you talking about BANIF?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u78	Disposing is saying that it defends people and then saying that if the service is public is good, if it is private is bad. If, then, people wait longer or if the treatment is worse, it doesn't matter. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u79	Ideology always comes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u80	And with regard to the lack of shame, I would say that it is no longer extraordinary to call for measures which are taken in an emergency and bankruptcy « deliberate measures ». The word used was « evil». Then, when the same measures are taken in a situation that is not of emergency, on the contrary, saying that they are no longer evil and that is random, that is a great lack of shame! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Nor does it cease to be extraordinary—I have heard well the concerns of the CFP—that the CFP, out there, and in ancient times, had demands and now has concerns. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, worry less and do more in here! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u81	Don't you need any trumpets to keep up with? Honestly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u82	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: This current debate does not go beyond an attempt by the CDS to remove the legacy of devastation left in public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u84	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u85	But that attempt will not work! And it doesn't happen, of course, because it comes into confrontation with reality. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, we are aware of the financial difficulties that exist in the National Health Service ( SNS) — we know them well. But in the face of these difficulties, I wanted to remind you of what has happened in the few months of PS governance. And the honourable Member now has the opportunity to measure these numbers, because, contrary to what happened in the time of your governance, they are available, at the minute, on the SNS portal. The honourable Member could have done the housework and seen how the indicators evolve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you look at me, I will remind you that only three numbers are important for the Portuguese people who listen to us: medical consultations — we have increased from 12, 3 million to 14, 5 million; surgical interventions — we have increased from 434 000 to 445 000; urgent steps — we have increased from 4, 08 million to 4, 28 million. These numbers don't tell you anything, Your Honor? This is not exactly the breakdown of services, it is the increase in the response capacity of the SNS, despite the debt that you have left, and which, as you know, was far beyond the anticipated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] Mrs Deputy, I mean another indicator that you will find important, which has to do with the number of professionals who have entered the SNS, which Mrs Deputy will surely value: doctors are more than 1036 ; nurses—who all claim so much from the honourable Members. Members—are more 1504, despite a poorly constructed contest, unable to execute, that the Government which the Member of Parliament had left behind; diagnostic and therapeutic technicians are more 299 ; operational assistants are more 401. With these figures, does the honourable Member really think there is a imminent risk in health services in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u86	I think!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u87	And what do you say to me when, at that time when we were already in such a clean exit speech, cancer patients were waiting for a year to consult? Doesn't that bother you? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Actually, what we're doing now, yes, is rescuing the SNS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u88	They forgot!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u89	... to increase the number of beds — 826 — in continuous care, to provide responses in mental health. for the first time, at the end of many years, we are thinking about the health of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u90	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u91	We're worried about the accounts. Let us wait for the end of the year to compare our results with yours. We have no problems, we ask people to do better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u92	Mr António Leitão Amaro, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard from both the government and the left, truly the left-to-back or the rear-to-back government, that instead of looking at what is happening or deciding about the future, they do not stop looking at the rear-to-back and talking about the past. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that is why, when there are rows in public transport, when there are stopped carriages, when there are closed schools—and they are those in charge of the sector that say there is an emergency in health and official data that say debt accumulates—you look at the rearviewer! But it's not a government with eyes on the rearviewer we need. It's because you're looking at the rearviewer that you're making the wrong decisions! And that's why they decide to cut public investment and investment in public services, divert revenue, not to return money to the Portuguese, because they charge it, not only with more taxes, but to move it towards another current expense.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u94	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u95	This is how the problems are created... your decisions, such as those of 35 hours, such as that of captivating, that create these problems in public services!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u97	I shall conclude by saying the following: we are already tired of speaking and unhonored.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u98	Then change your life!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u99	The problem is that these failed promises are the suffering of Portuguese public service users, and this is bad and the eyes on the rearview do not allow to see it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u100	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Deputy Minister Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the final stage of this debate, I cannot fail to be surprised by the intervention of the PSD given by Mr Leitão Amaro. Who was the face of radical right-wing governance in four years of cristing against the Constitution, against the public service? Oh, my God! Who was the face of the one who expelled 350 000 Portuguese for emigration? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Who left 1, 2 million Portuguese without a family doctor? Oh, my God! Who left Portugal with 30,000 teachers less and more than 1000 schools less? Oh, my God! Those were the ones who were hit by your government. Let's look to the future! Let's look at who's going to give a family doctor, already next year, to 500 000 Portuguese! Let's look at who's going to give justice of proximity in 40 more comarcas! Let's look at those who guaranteed a start of school year with quietness! Let's look at who's going to improve the exercise of public safety in Lisbon or in Porto!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u102	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u103	Let's work for the future! That's how the Portuguese really took them off the track by vote on October 4 last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u104	To close the debate, Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies José Luís Ferreira, Mariana Mortágua, Paula Santos, João Paulo Oliveira and Luísa Mesquita : We are on October 12, 2016. The gentlemen crystallized in 2015, but today they were, well, confronted by the CDS with a reality that bothers you, and so it took so long to sign up. [[Rice from the members of BE Mariana Mortágua and Pedro Filipe Soares.]] They rule a year ago — the waiting lists are yours, the unposted teachers are yours, the closed schools are yours, the transport complaints are yours, the debts they hire are yours! All this with your complicity, with your convivence, with your support. You spoke here in ideology. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our ideology is to live in a country where someone can buy a metro ticket and does not have a government minister who says there is no reason why it was a chance, it was a "suckiness",...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u106	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u107	...is to live in a country where government members assume responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u108	That's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u109	And in that sense, Minister, it is not an act of contrition, it is an act of accusation. You promised the end of austerity, but austerity did not end and the risk increased. They say that the blame lies with the European Union — with the blackmail of the European Union —, with the situation in Angola, with the situation in Brazil, with the U.S. elections... Now we even realize that the fault is by chance, with the 'lucky' that this government has, because there are no tickets on the subway! Open... Minister, you really like to play Russian roulette. The problem is that it is always the country that pays, with bankruptcy and with very hard measures, as the previous government had to take. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, spoke of a lack of legitimacy. on our part, in Parliament, and in democracy, we all have legitimacy, we all have equal legitimacy. But I would like to tell you that the CDS, of course, has as much legitimacy as the Member of Parliament to talk about public services, has as much legitimacy as the Member of Parliament to confront it with the measures that your Government is taking, the Government that supports. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u110	They just can't be taken seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u111	Political legitimacy often comes from the political credibility that is created. Mrs. Member, who saw her and who saw her! Where I once claimed, I denounced, now the honourable Member and the Left Block do not hear, they do not see, they do not speak, that is, they have become politically useless, and that is your problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u112	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us move on to the third item on the agenda, the joint discussion of draft resolutions 482 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide competent municipal, inter-municipal and multi-municipal authorities with access to the mechanism established for the automatic allocation of social energy tariffs as a contribution to the adequacy and improvement of the social water tariffs approved by them ( BE) and 493 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve public access to public water, sanitation and waste services ( CFP ). To open the debate and present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has a heavy burden on water poverty. The burden of spending on the bill of water at the expense of the most economically vulnerable families is very high. The sector regulator has recommended the application of social tariffs that can relieve the most disadvantaged families of the weight of water bill in the family economy. On average, this discount reaches half the water supply value for a consumption of 10 m3 per month. The problem is that this measure is a failure in its application. The Left Block launched an investigation to the Portuguese authorities and received a response from about half of them — 135. of these 135 authorities, 35 do not practice the social rate of water, but there are 100 that have planned it. however, of these 100, there are 70 that cannot cover at least 2 % of contracts in their territory in the social water tariff. There are 10 authorities who succeed in not having a single beneficiary of the social tariff which have decided to constitute. The explanation for this is very simple. I would like to refer to the answer we received from the Aarganil authorship: « There have already been more contracts with social tariffs, but after one year it is necessary to revalidate them by the customer with the services, and this is often not done». And that is how, in 8718 supply contracts in the Arganil municipality, only one benefits from the social rate. How can you ensure, then, that the discount for those who really need it can be applied? A year ago, we decided in this House to change the way in which the social energy tariff is applied. The story was the same: it was necessary to ask, it was necessary to pass a series of bureaucratic obstacles in order to access the social tariff in electricity and channeled gas. We then had 140 000 beneficiaries of the social tariff. The Left Block then proposed an automatic mechanism which, from the data of tax administration and social security, would allow families economically vulnerable to have automatic access to this discount. This decision was taken in the Assembly of the Republic and today there are 700 000 families benefiting from the discount on electricity bill. The authorities maintain their responsibilities: they decide to apply a social tariff and they will be setting the value of this discount. But nothing justifies that it is not universally established not only the criterion of access, that it is the same standard of economic vulnerability that has been defined for the social rate of electricity, as nothing inhibits the application of the criteria of automatic access. There are clear criteria applied to all, which have already been tested and which have removed this discount from arbitrariness, from the decision of favour and which pass it into the exercise of a right of the most disadvantaged sectors of society. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer any excuse for maintaining the social tariff as a discount that no one receives. In order to combat poverty in water in Portugal, it is necessary to ensure that the discount due to arrive at those who need it most. This is the recommendation that the Assembly of the Republic must make today, and we are in a position to ensure, as soon as possible, that the social tariff can be allocated automatically. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u114	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Water is a right of everyone and, being a right of all and an essential good to life, it must obviously be accessible to all citizens. We are, in fact, talking about a right, a good of which people cannot get away with. from there we understand that public water management is the model that best serves the interests of populations, public interests. Any prospect of privatization—in fact, this has been the position we have taken—or of making water into a business, and we well know that some parties are defending it, would only limit access and would only penalize the people themselves. Today we are bringing to the Assembly of the Republic an initiative aimed at improving citizens' access to public services of water, sanitation and waste. We therefore propose that a set of taxes which exist today, in particular by the Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ( ERSAR ), may be reversed. The recommendations of ERSAR on water and waste materials lead or are made from a perspective in which what is privileged is cost recovery, economic and financial sustainability, and not that all citizens can have access to water. More: it also prevents the possibility of partial recovery of costs by the Budget. This is one of the issues that even raises doubts about the initiative presented by the Left Block. The Left Block states that it is essential to sensitize municipalities that do not yet follow the recommendation of the regulator of the sector. Well, if these recommendations are applied as they are put, they lead not to a reduction in the cost of water for citizens, but to an increase, because it leads to all associated costs being translated into tariffs, and this will lead to a widespread increase in the cost of water for all. The social tariff is also provided, but it is limited only to the exemption of the fixed rate, which, in our view, is quite limited. We therefore present this initiative, concerned with the access of all citizens to water, with increased concerns about families with greater economic deficits. from there we propose that there may be changes in ERSAR's statutes in order to remove all the taxes made by municipalities with regard to the application of tariffs and social tariffs, in order to ensure the economic accessibility of consumers to this essential service. We also propose that the imposition of short-term applications for Community funds should be terminated at a rate of 90 % or more, which, to be applied, would entail a substantial increase in tariffs. This is a right, which is an essential part of life, more than appreciable measures, structural measures are needed, measures which cover a more comprehensive intervention that enables authorities, within the framework of their autonomy, to be able to apply tariffs that meet the needs of citizens, but also to improve the accessibility of citizens to supply water, sanitation and waste. [[PCP applause.]] [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u116	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any entries on this agenda item at this time, so we are waiting for the Members. Ladies and gentlemen sign up. [[Pause.]] [[In the meantime, the Bureau recorded Mr Renato Sampaio's entry for an intervention.]] Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two draft resolutions, one of the Left Block and another of the Communist Party, of the greatest importance for Portuguese families. The PS has always been empowered by effective social justice, particularly with regard to the inalienable right of citizens to essential public services, which, because they are essential, are a right of everyone and in any circumstances. We believe it is good to improve the model of social water tariffs, using the same model that the government has implemented in energy and gas, despite the fact that the implementation of these social tariffs is dependent on the options of each municipality. However, the universal right of access to water cannot be ignored. According to data provided by the Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services, the monthly charge for a domestic user, for about 10 m3 per month with public water and waste services, was 20, 69 € in 2012, an invoice that not all families can bear. Thinking of these cases, ERSAR made recommendations in 2009 and 2012 on the application of social tariffs in the various municipalities of the country. however, even in 2014 this social tariff reached only about 3% of families in each municipality. A narrow parallelism can be traced between this regime with what happened with electricity and natural gas. Indeed, in 2010 and 2011 the social rate of supply of electricity and natural gas was created to apply to economically vulnerable final customers. The problem, however, was that access to the benefit was found in the model of allocation of the social tariff advocated in a logic in which the interested parties had to request from the entities. This Government has redesigned the new procedure for access to the social rate of supply of natural gas and electricity to make it automatic and informal for low-resource family aggregates. Thus, based on a new paradigm and an inversion of the procedural, automatic and informal initiative, a new system was implemented for the allocation of the social electricity supply tariff, which entered into force on 1 July 2016 and involved the exchange of information between the traders — the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology, the Social Security Institute, the Institute of Computer Science and the Tax Authority. Mr President, allow me to stress the commitment of public servants of these entities who, by their effectiveness and action, have allowed these good results. Protocols were thus concluded between all those entities, previously approved by the National Data Protection Commission, in response to the special requirement of respect for personal data.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u118	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u119	I'm done now, Mr. President. The experience of this tax benefit allocation model—and the results achieved were 8, 5 times higher for energy and 6, 7 times higher for gas—with its automation, it presents such clear and obvious success contours that make its transposition into the supply sector of other needs, such as water, a clear added value and, above all, it is a huge contribution to combating social inequalities, becoming a political initiative that could be within the reach of this government. This is how this House understands it, like the Socialist Party's bench. It is necessary to raise awareness among municipalities in this regard. We believe in the Portuguese municipalities and our authorships that, aware of the difficulties of families who belong to their territories and who need social support, will access this tariff, thus contributing to the development of more effective municipal social policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u120	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block initiative we are discussing today aims at the availability of the Government to the competent authorities — municipal, inter-municipal and multi-municipal — the mechanism for the automatic allocation of social energy tariffs as regards social water tariffs. I would like to point out that the social rate of supply of electricity and gas aimed, in the process of liberalising the energy sector and protecting consumers, to ensure access to all consumers to the essential service of electricity supply, irrespective of their provider, to apply to economically vulnerable end customers. Since the creation of the extent to which its scope has always been extended, it has benefited the most deprived families for the use of this essential public service. We have no doubt that such provision of water and sanitation services, in a safe, reliable, physically affordable and acceptable way, is essential for public health and for the socio-economic development of populations in a sustainable way. It is obviously up to the State to ensure universal access to this service to the entire population by eliminating any inequality or discrimination. in this sense, the former government, following the various recommendations of ERSAR, implemented important structural reforms in the water sector in order to streamline and make this sector efficient. So, Mr. Members, what was actually intended to do was to achieve a balance point from the economic and financial point of view of the systems and to make it possible to increase the uniformization of tariffs at more affordable prices for the whole population, together with municipalities. What we wanted was a uniformization of water prices and sanitation for the entire Portuguese population, in particular by balancing prices on the coast and on the interior and taking care of the most deprived families. Thus, many operating costs of the structure were reduced and a greater rationalization of the means was possible. What the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party have done was reverse this reform and our fear is that this is expensive, particularly at the price of water to be paid by the people, and that consequently the social rate of water also suffers from this. We will therefore support all measures aimed at improving the accessibility and quality of the essential public services to be provided to the people, but we are entirely against that, for reasons of purely theoretical or ideological order, if policies are taken that call into question the system's own sustainability and that may call into question the access of the water service to the entire population and harm the social tariff of the water, which the Block of Left comes here today to say that it wants to protect. Mrs. Members of the Left Block, I wanted to tell them that if they were actually concerned about the price of water, if they did not want it to go up, they should have thought about it before and should not have reversed or supported the reversal of the reform made by the PSD/CDS government in the water sector, because there they had the guarantee that the price of water in the country was all balanced and at the cheapest prices. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u122	Mr António Topa, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Draft resolution No 482 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), from the Left Block, recommends to the Government the provision to municipal, inter-municipal and multi-municipal entities managing the bottom water supply service of the social security databases and the Consumer Tax Authority, in order to allow the automatic allocation of social energy tariffs as a contribution to the adequacy and improvement of the social water tariffs approved by them. Draft resolution No 493 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), in paragraph 5 of the CFP, makes a similar proposal. It is our view that the provision of such information to those entities may help to speed up the more conscious and rapid allocation of social tariffs to consumers of low economic resources. We agree that the lack of information and bureaucratic barriers may constitute the main factors in inhibiting the access of potential beneficiaries of the social water tariff to a discount, so the information provided in an automatic manner by the above-mentioned entities, social security and the Tax Authority may allow the extension to potential beneficiaries. The implementation of the social tariff recommended several times by ERSAR is already in force in many authorities, allowing the information, which is now intended to be provided to management entities, to facilitate its implementation in a more adjusted way in the municipalities where it already exists or in those where it does not yet exist. It should be clarified that the procedure and competences for the approval of lower rates are reserved exclusively to local municipal bodies, which, in view of their proximity to their municipalities, have a deep knowledge of the reality of the land, having identified the cases of families with lower resources. This relationship allows the authorities to adopt a varied range of possible solutions to support families, doing so in a flexible and more appropriate way, often in each case. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u124	It believes that the provision of data to enable the allocation of social tariffs to consumers is only useful in helping and providing more comprehensive information, not at least colliding with the autonomy of local authority. Contrary to the draft resolution submitted by the CFP, it is our view that the existence of a regulatory entity for water services, sanitation and waste, the most recent approval of which was the responsibility of the PSD/CDS Government, is important as an independent entity with regulatory and supervisory functions of these sectors, including the functions of competent authority for the coordination and monitoring of the water quality regime for human consumption. As mentioned above, ERSAR does not approve the lower rates, as this is the competence of the local authorities, and can only issue binding instructions in situations and in accordance with the terms of the law on the tariffs to be applied by the municipal ownership systems which do not comply with the existing legal and regulatory provisions. The role of ERSAR is identical to that of other existing regulatory entities. ERSAR, with its well-defined competences, has made several recommendations that have led the municipal water, sanitation and urban waste systems to help implement the application of the social tariff. We understand that the existence of ERSAR with its current powers and responsibilities is neither a danger nor conflict with the autonomy and competences of the local power. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u125	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions on this point of our agenda, we move on to the next, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 464 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene on the national road No 2 to transform this route into a « product » of economic interest and tourist promotion ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 495 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the consecration of the Longitudinal Way of Portugal — EN2 and its valuation ( PS ). To present the draft resolution of the PSD and the CDS-PP, Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Eight provinces, 11 districts, 4 greenhouses, 11 rivers, 32 municipalities. I tell you about the only road that crosses the country, literally, from north to south, through the interior, from Keys to Faro. This road can bring about a product with potential economic interest in promoting tourism. This is the backbone of the country, with 738, 5 km. There are few in the world and virtually none in Europe with this dimension. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has grown in recent years in the tourism sector and has received international awards for the various tourist products it offers. Portugal is an immense and diversified wealth, although it is a country of small size. Despite this limitation, many other routes and destinations in our Portugal are ready to be discovered. We just have to go on the adventure and move on to meet him. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea is neither PSD nor CDS. We are not the owners of the road just because we present a draft resolution and the role of Parliament is not to replace anyone. Much work is done by the tourism regions, by the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), by the infrastructures of Portugal, by the authorities of all parties, without exception. We therefore welcome this national effort. We have limited ourselves, because of our condition as Members, to give visibility to the project, taking advantage of a legislative instrument that we have, that is, even more or less, this draft resolution, to advise the Government in the areas itself protected to look differently at this diamond for exploring. This is a territory that is recognised as having a need to rediscover itself. the urgent need for measures to combat regional asymmetries between these territories. These are measures such as those which, using endogenous resources, attract new audiences, those who have to eat lunch, dinner, sleep, finally consume, contribute to job creation and concomitantly to the fixing of populations. in the background, it will be be bet on what already exists, modernizing, improving structures, valuing the local economy. National road No. 2 is undoubtedly the instrument of many different types of tourism even the most sophisticated, such as the new strategic trends in environmental matters, cycling mobility and pedestrianism. Another great potential of these regions is an intrinsic characteristic of the Portuguese people: the sympathy of people, the willingness to receive well, with quality, offering what they best have. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all of this should make us think of ourselves, Parliament, and the government, so that we can look at this national way with a coherent and integrated look that will allow its protection, conservation, promotion and dynamisation. Transforming this road into a national green road for tourism, promoting this link of the country, encouraging environmental recovery, sustainable development from a large region that is the interior of the north to the south, should be our design. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the road is moving! We are doing our part, it will be up to everyone to carry out this project on the ground. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] During the intervention, an Image was designed, which can be seen at the end of the Diário.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u127	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Communication routes have always been considered as central elements of the development of societies by improving and facilitating the movement of people and goods and enhancing their security. Today, we are not only talking about the contribution and importance of the national road No 2 and it has in the development of our country. Today, we are going to talk about a structured way that wants to raise its condition, wanting to become a product and an innovative concept that allows, with another ease, to promote tourism development, the economic and cultural promotion of the 32 municipalities that touch this route throughout Portugal, transforming it into our largest tourist platform. What we are discussing today in the House of Democracy is a pretext of 739, 26 km transformed into a desire to unite, develop and deepen relations between territories as different as, for example, Vila Real and Faro, Lamego and Castro Verde, Penacova and Sardoal, realized in their traditions, history, heritage, landscape, culture, endogenous resources and gastronomy, meeting strategically under the designation of « route». We welcome the PSD and the CDS for the sudden discovery of the potential of the national road #2 and we cannot fail to criticize the fact that these same parties olympically ignore the work done by the municipalities, some under the leadership of the PSD, in this entire process that has lasted for more than two years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, in the name of the most basic justice, we have the duty to state here that the momentum of the constitution of the « route» has author, local and date, not born of spontaneous generation, had no origin in any government of our democracy, was not triggered by any tourist entity or on any journey carried out on foot, by bicycle or by motor vehicle, The initiative of the « route» was born of those who live, work and represent the populations of this real backbone of Portugal. Therefore, the Socialist Party cannot fail to stress the leading role of the President of the Municipal Chamber of Santa Marta de Penaguião, Luís Machado, whom I take advantage of to greet, who in June 2014 decided to invite all the municipalities crossed the national road No. 2 to share their vision and from there start the path of achieving this goal. in your person, we would like to greet and praise all the autarchs that, briefly, will carry out the formalization of the association of municipalities of the route of national road No 2. This new association will be the key component for the establishment of integrated, concerted and coordinated intervention within regional development options between the municipalities and the various bodies protected by the State which have as their main responsibility to deal with infrastructure and tourism in Portugal. It makes sense, therefore, that this House, through the parties represented in it, recommends to the Government a strong involvement in this project, framed in a relationship of true partnership with local authorities, which allows this challenge to give a dimension that goes beyond our borders and that, at the very end, it can acquire, with UNESCO, the status of Immaterial Heritage of Humanity and that this synergy can result in the strengthening of its ability to promote and attract this unusual road, as well as a new impetus as regards its maintenance, security, information and signage, not forgetting the recovery of all its granite marking, houses and canteen shelters, granting them new and creative uses. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are therefore convinced of the enormous potential and size of this project and of the strong socio-economic impact it will have on the populations, contributing to the sustainable development of their territories, thereby further realizing a good example of reinvention of our tourist potentials. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u129	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin, of course, by congratulating the real authors of this draft resolution, which was not myself but my colleague Abel Baptista and Mr Carlos Silva. This is a draft resolution that comes from the 'pedalada' of these two Members. I, with less health gains and much less time but equal enthusiasm, took 10 minutes to make the trip—it was the time that took me to describe the magnificent landscape and the magnificent history of this journey that I would call the « real avenue of Portugal ». in it it is a whole country, either, as has already been said, the people and the Portuguese people, whether their gastronomy, their cultural heritage, their history and even something that is an increasingly evident national brand, which is wine, gastronomy and also water, because it exceeds a set of rivers, a set of dams. That is to say, we are speaking in fact of an entire Portugal, of a journey that links Keys to Faro and, therefore, it seems to me - it is clear that Parliament does not want to take it today - nor do we want to do it - the paternity of nothing; only, and only, we want Parliament to join its voice to a group of entities that have long looked at, protected and strengthened that same route. There is an association — and I would also like here to congratulate the 31 authors who, I know, of the 32, have already accessed it — whose members have worked and who will certainly be the main actors in the preservation, exploitation and promotion of this journey. But it is even more obvious that there has been, and that there is, to generate consensus on this path, to find points in common, to look at the potential of this route or this route — which I would rather call 'Avenida de Portugal' — to highlight this broad consensus that existed and obviously wanted to say that Parliament would be ill if it could also not say 'We agreed'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u132	This is a draft resolution, not a bill, which tells the Government: « Look at the discentred bodies of the State — the Coordination and Regional Development Commissions, the Tourism of Portugal, the regional tourism entities, because they can also help the autarchs in what is fundamental ». I therefore think that this draft resolution has also been a good one, just as it has done well the action of the autarchs in time. Why? Because this route still has a lot of quality, it is not yet achieving levels of degradation, whose recovery would be much more costly. So if there is some time before we can protect this heritage, so that we can have one single thing, which is a way that passes through the whole country, which itself closes tourist potential in some products, namely the thermal, since it also passes through a set of territories which has one of its tourist posters in the thermal baths, it seems to me that Parliament has been doing well, as well as the honourable Members. rapporteurs for this draft resolution. The other parties, which, of course, we invite and call for them to be able to approve, unanimously, this draft resolution, but they are not saying what we are taking advantage of and caressing this product, so that we may eventually be able to protect some recovery that needs to be done and, of course, let time, use, curiosity and even the lack of so many and so many who have gone through this way — and there is a set of family life stories on the same path — can then make their way and perhaps transform this product into a unique, pleasant product and, eventually, into an anchor of some local economy, in particular endogenous products, but also into a product of recovery of heritage and of what is, in essence, a set of realities that we all have to protect. So I will just say that, on our part, there was no attempt to exceed anyone, it was simply to value, support and draw attention to this reality, which may indeed be a tourist product, but above all an economic value for the people and for the country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u133	I have the floor, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As already mentioned today, the national road No. 2 is the only Portuguese road that crosses the country from north to south. They are more than 700 km of route, crossing 11 districts and more than 30 of our municipalities. National road No. 2 is, above all, the road to cultures, the specificities of our lands, our rural localities and also our history, but it must still be seen as an effort, a journey of paths, shortcuts for the development of the interior of the country. The importance of this road continues to be fundamental from the point of view of mobility, since it not only circulates motor vehicles as well as bicycles and still has all the characteristics to be able to promote and implement pedestrian routes. If there is a road that, in addition to the importance it has in terms of mobility for the population, still has potential to promote increasingly sought tourist motives, such as thermal tourism, nature tourism, rural tourism, the search for places where it can circulate sustainably, such as cycling or even walking, this is the national road No 2. The growing demand for tourism, which not only goes through the visit to big cities, is increasingly evident, which calls on us to look for alternative ways to boost what we have in terms of tourism. There is no need to invent anything because we have many potentials to discover and explore. We know how to look at them as true potentialities, as high quality tourist products. We know that we are paying attention to growing environmental and ecological awareness, which tends to spread around the world, and to the importance it represents in all the variables when tourists decide to visit a country. The rich natural heritage that involves much of the route of national road No 2 — rivers, mountains, mountains and landscapes — deserves to be seen and visited throughout the world in a perspective of sustainable tourism and a friend of the environment and nature, always in a perspective of an environmentally balanced tourism capable of not compromising the future of these natural resources. But the route of the national road No 2 also offers us a valuable heritage built — castles, convents, churches and other monuments — and above all offers us a unique picture of our culture and the specificities of each region in terms, for example, cultural or gastronomic. from Algarve to Trás-os-Montes there is a world of worlds with tourist interest that it is necessary to enhance and which must also be looked not only as a tourist product but as an enhancer of a serious fight against regional asymmetries and as a factor of regional development. A work that should involve not only the central government but also regional tourism authorities and, of course, local authorities. It is therefore necessary to look at this road as a potential to be conserved and dynamized, not only as a tourist product, but also, above all, as a mobility tool for populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u135	I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After years and years of disinvestment and budget cuts in the conservation and benefit of the national road network, after billions of euros buried in PPP (public-private partnerships) to the detriment of national and regional roads, after the dismantling of services and technical structures on the ground,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u137	That has Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u138	... after all this, here the PSD and the CDS are now both walking and discovered the national road No. 2.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u140	Of course, Mrs. Members, the conservation and exploitation of the road; certainly the re-qualification of milestones and signage; of course digital technologies in promotion and dissemination; of course, we all agree. What is unbelievable is that you are now proposing road safety interventions when a year and a half ago there were proposals for intervention on roads where tragedies still continue to happen, as has been the case in the IC1.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u141	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u142	What is unbelievable is now to talk about tourist activities — restoration, local trade — near the road when, in fact, micro and small entrepreneurs, in these activities and in these places, are confronted with abusive and unacceptable rates by the infrastructures of Portugal, the result of the law that you have approved. from the PCP, there will be no obstacles or impediments to which, from the national road No 2, a strategy to enhance the territory of the interior of the country, to promote and disseminate the regions, their heritage and identity, but we want to leave here a word on a small detail that seems to have been forgotten in some discourses. We talk about the local populations, we talk about all those who live, work, study in the regions that are served by this road and therefore use it in their daily lives. We speak of the populations affected, over the years and years, by policies on the right of abandonment of the interior, of closure of companies, of public services, of jobs, of the imposition of tolls in SCUT. The people who face these problems, who are there, in these regions, every day and who need this road and the other roads cannot be forgotten, as they have been. We are in favour of the dissemination and promotion of tourism. For this reason, we welcome the work on the ground that is being done by the local power and the association movement; therefore, we want to emphasize that these regions of the interior of the country are something much more important than the landscape for tourists to see. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u143	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming and welcoming the arrival of the PSD and the CDS in promoting and defending public investment within the framework of the proposal they make, or of the invitation they make, to which the infrastructure of Portugal takes the lead in the implementation of a project that you, for the four and a half years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u145	Why didn't you show up before?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u146	... which were in the government, they made — the Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure for the Country — for a 10-year horizon, but did not remember at that time to make this concrete proposal for public investment. This is because, by consulting the Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure that you have approved, there is no investment on the national road No 2. Probably the ladies. Members of the PSD and the CDS, who now had time to make the route of the national road No. 2 from above to below, were at the time very busy in defining the cut-off of investments, public investment policy,... [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] ... in particular in terms of road infrastructure. And because they were very entertained in these cuts, they didn't remember this project. The merit of this project is to draw attention to the fact that the PSD and the CDS come here on this occasion to confess their incapacity, their political error in the past, either in relation to this road infrastructure in particular, or in relation to the reduction and annihilation of public investment processes in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u148	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of the PSD and the CDS, the merit of this initiative is undoubtedly a way of convening us for the importance that this infrastructure can have for the purposes of valuing the territories, improving accessibility in the interior territories and for some fairness in the application of public investment in terms of transport infrastructure in the country. It is a region, as you say, and well, that crosses the whole territory longitudinally and, from this point of view, being re-qualified this infrastructure, will always be a factor in improving accessibility to these territories and promoting the local and regional development of these territories. We therefore follow this proposal, but we cannot but say that it is a proposal that has been at least four years late because you have been agents of a process of destruction of public investment in the road infrastructure that has caused many regions of the country to come now with this government to the Assembly of the Republic to demand urgent investment, which cannot fail to be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u149	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u150	For example, investments in CI2, in sections which by their state of degradation cause numerous road accidents with fatal victims, call us to avoid mixing priorities and to ensure that public investment is a qualitative investment in terms of requalification of the national road network. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u151	I would also like to congratulate Mr Carlos Santos Silva on his three-second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will be very quick, just to leave two notes, the first of which I regret. I regret the fact that Mr Francisco Rocha accused my party of a certain injustice when, after all, who was wrong was Mr Rocha. And I'll explain why. It is because in my speech that you probably did not hear — you already brought your written text and you did not have the opportunity to listen to my speech — I had the humility to say that the PSD and the CDS are not owners of this project, because we have presented a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u153	It's not written!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u154	We went further: we welcomed exactly all the work done! And I can tell you that I saluted exactly all the autarchs, from all parties, without exception. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u155	So you didn't hear what I said. Another regret is exactly with the honourable Members. Members of the left, of the management. To these gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that on my holidays I do what I want and, as a Member, I take the political initiatives that my party considers to be correct to contribute to what you, in a way, have also contributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u156	Now I'm crushed with that argument!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u157	And here comes the second point I want to leave a note.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u158	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the second point I want to make is the strong consensus that is being created around the proposals that we have put forward. by the visas, they bring together the consensus of all parliamentary benches. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u160	Mrs. Members, the joint debate on draft resolutions 464 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 495 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), we will move to the fifth point of our order of business, the general assessment of Bill No 135 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combats precariousness by preventing the use of active public employment measures to meet the permanent needs of public services, companies and other entities ( CFP ) together with draft resolution No 497 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for the eradication of employment-inclusion contracts as a mechanism for the completion of permanent needs, for the recognition of employment contracts and for the supervision of the stages promoted by IEFP ( BE ). To present the bill of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this agenda of the CFP, today we have the opportunity to take a firm step and discuss concrete measures to combat precariousness. Today we are bringing to the discussion a proposal to prevent the use of internships and employment-inclusion contracts when it comes to meeting the permanent needs of public services, businesses and other entities. Furthermore, it is not possible to speak of the importance of quality public services without referring to valued workers and in sufficient numbers. The latest data available on this subject for 2015 point to the existence of around 68 000 employment-inclusion contracts and more than 73 000 professional internships. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in fact, these workers do not meet the transitional or seasonal needs of services and businesses. on the contrary, if we retain in the number of public administration workers who, between 2011 and 2015, were reduced by 78 000 and if we add to this 68 000 employment-inclusion contracts and 5000 professional stages, we have proof that those who are replacing permanent jobs are unemployed workers who do not receive any remuneration for the exercise of their work and in professional stages. It should also be said that, in fact, it is these workers who, to a large extent, ensure the normal functioning of services, schools, social security services and many other public equipment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Internships, employment-inclusion contracts and other such active employment measures serve to mask unemployment statistics, reduce the number of unemployed workers statistically, but do not create any prospect of effectively solving the problem of unemployment and it is not possible to solve the problem of unemployment without combating precariousness. The alternative to unemployment is not precarious, it is right employment. Therefore, the solutions that we bring to the discussion today, and on which we would like to hear you, are: that workers in unemployment situations and occupational internships cannot occupy permanent jobs; that, whenever there are vacant public services for supply, tenders are opened for the recruitment of workers; that, where they exist in enterprises and other vacant bodies of employment for supply, workers are contracted without end, preventing, in such cases, the use of internships and employment-inclusion contracts; that the needs to be provided in public enterprises and services cannot be filled by unemployed workers through employment-inclusion contracts or occupational internships; and that, in cases where such happens, the entity or the undertaking concerned is deprived of access to any benefit, subsidies or subsidies, as well as to use any such active employment measure over the period of one year. These are concrete proposals for combating precariousness. It's the PCP compromise, that's why we're here. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u162	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we want to fulfil the commitment to combat precariousness, particularly the precariousness that the right created in Portugal in recent years, this commitment must necessarily involve combating this precautionary technique, the most significant in Portugal in recent years, which is the use of active employment policies, including employment-inclusion contracts and the stages of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( IEFP ), in order to meet permanent needs and conceal working relationships to which a contract should correspond. The case of employment-inclusion contracts is probably the most inconsistencies, to the extent that it has motivated, during the right-wing Government, a strong position of the Ombudsman, which warned about the illegal use of these contracts, which have served, as we know, not to create the necessary employment in the State and in the private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ) to hide the effects of the decrease in public service workers — only in the mandate of the former Government has decreased by 49,500 Central Public Administration employees, and there are still those of the authorities — to create a pressure to lower wages and to create a quota of tens of thousands of workers without any rights. As the number of workers in the various State bodies decreased, the number of employment-inclusion contracts increased: 18 000 in IPSS ; 12 000 in the Public Administration ; and 38 000 in the authorities, in fact, it is said to be passed on in the authorities of all colors. These are workers who receive the unemployment allowance and a €83 grant, not to fill, as it was supposed, temporary needs but permanent needs, knowing that, in the end, they will have no contract, no employment, no insertion. in the case of IEFP internships, they ceased to fulfil the mission so that they were allegedly created and became a precarious business, with companies addicted to the use of public subsidies to have workers, in particular those licensed at low cost, and to use the trainees rotationally to fill jobs, with a result that was a fiasco, from the point of view of creating employment with rights, since only 5, 3 % of the IEFP internships gave rise to effective recruitment in the same company. In April this year, on a proposal from the Left Block, a recommendation was adopted for the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) to monitor the misuse of employment-inclusion contracts and IEFP internships and was included in the 2016 State Budget for a diagnosis of precariousness in the Public Administration and the State business sector. We are talking about thousands of workers who are in public bodies such as IEFP, RTP, schools, health centres, hospitals, using employment-insertion contracts or false green receipts or even false outsourcing to meet permanent needs. We therefore propose concrete measures, namely that this ACT campaign should take place in the next three months, that this diagnosis of precariousness in public administration be made public this month, that places be opened on the staff map of public bodies and that these places with employment contracts be filled by competitions, that private entities that use the CIS and traineeships are prohibited from competing in public tenders and subsidies and that there are new rules for internships, capable of combating precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u164	You now have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Active employment policies represent the best of the European social model. In times of very high economic crisis and unemployment, it is part of the social dimension of the State that can stimulate companies to hire and help people find work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u166	Subsidies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u167	We know that the CFP and the Left Block are against the European social model. That is why we are not surprised, in this case, at this schedule. The PCP decided to reschedule its disagreement with active public employment policies, presenting a bill. The Left Block came straight back, running, not to get out of this same debate, and presented a draft resolution. The Left Block and the CFP are against active employment measures and professional insertion measures. It is important to remember that these measures were launched by a PS government, by a socialist minister, who is exactly the same minister who today exercises this portfolio. We're talking about Minister Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u168	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u169	And the Left Block and the PCP are against these measures, they are against these initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u170	So they're against the Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u171	The Left Block and the CFP do not accept or understand that vocational integration measures are often the best — and sometimes the only — way to help long-term unemployed and people with disabilities or disabilities to integrate into the labour market. The Left Block and the PCP do not accept, nor do they understand, that professional internships are a way of giving many young people the first opportunity to work. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u172	The first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u173	The PCP and the Left Block prefer to feed on the protest to present solutions. In fact, the only solution they present is to abandon these people to their own fate. [[BE's protests.]] That's too bad! It's too bad! On the other hand, it is worth remembering, as Mr. José Moura Soeiro has recently done, that for the PCP the measures are bad in the Assembly of the Republic, but they are already good when they are used in the authorities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u174	They're not good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u175	...in particular in its authorities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u176	It's like this in Évora. It's like this in Setúbal. It's like this in Peniche. It is so in Loures — exactly, in Loures, that it is governed by a former PCP parliamentary leader. It's like this in Benavente. of the 20 municipal chambers that most use these measures, 5 are from the PCP and 10 are from the Socialist Party. [[PCP protests.]] That is, the current majority, in these 20 cameras, represents 75 %. It is appropriate to say: « Well pray Brother Thomas ; do as he says... », in Parliament, «... do not do as he does», in the authorities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u177	You don't know what he's saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u178	in this game push between PCP and Left Block, what does PS tell us? We're curious! Has the PS changed his mind? We know from several authorities who are currently waiting for the internships to be approved and still have no news from the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. Now, did the PS leave this consensus around the European social model and became against the measures it created? Oh, my God! We're curious to know. Are you going to vote in favour of the PCP bill and the Left Block draft resolution?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u179	That's dishonesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u180	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u181	I'm done now, Mr. President. It was good to know, even to evaluate the coherence of this debate, because, in relation to the CFP, as regards coherence, we are talking about. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u182	That's dishonesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u183	Mr José Luís Ferreira spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Whether through term contracts, either through temporary employment contracts or even the use of green receipts, either through employment-inclusion contracts or professional internships, the fact is that, from a few years ago, precariousness seems to want to take account of the reality of work in Portugal, a problem that, in fact, grew surprisingly with the previous government. More than 1,2 million workers today, especially young people, are forced to jump between unemployment and work without rights. And the previous government not only pretended that nothing happened as it still helped the party. at the level of administration, the PSD/CDS government promoted precarious recruitment to meet permanent needs. at the local level, the previous government imposed redundancies of workers from local authorities, forcing them to use employment-inclusion contracts. Mr António Carlos Monteiro, it is very bad to come here to say that the authorities resort to employment-inclusion contracts, when it was the government that the CDS was part of forcing them to do so because it prevented them from hiring people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u185	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u186	They could only hire with permission from the Ministry of Finance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u188	What about before? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u189	Therefore, what is true is that the PSD/CDS government somehow tried to institutionalize precariousness, transforming it into a rule. Today, there is a serious need to combat this serious problem that represents precariousness in our country, even because precarious workers have lower wages than others and therefore this type of work is always a factor of discrimination, which condemns the worker to complete deprotection. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] In other words, precariousness, which mainly affects women and young people, is socially unfair and degrading, affects the country itself in its productivity and in its development. Even so, recourse to precarious work has been representing a recurrent, common and almost institutionalized practice as a way of disresponsibility of the employer and stressing the precariousness of those who are forced to work without rights. thus, the worker loses across the line, loses rights or does not arrive, even if it acquires them, loses job security and loses in wage terms. This is the result of precariousness. It happens that false green receipts, because they are false, are lies and that future contracts, as well as temporary employment contracts, employment-inclusion contracts or professional internships, which aim to satisfy permanent needs, are not substantially contracts in terms of term, nor temporary employment contracts, nor insertion contracts, nor professional internships, are fraud, they are a lie.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u191	This House cannot remain indifferent to what is going on and must engage in a real struggle to end the falsehood and the contractual lie in labour relations. what is involved is to place the truth in the link that is established in labour relations, because if those who work do their part, fulfill their obligations, comply with the law, the same is required of employers, in particular respect for labour laws. In conclusion, I just want to say that the Greens follow the bills of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Block of Left that are currently under discussion and that they aim, in a way, to combat the precariousness of work. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u193	Mr Rui Riso has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on precariousness, at least in the brief survey that was made, has a first record in 2006, which means that this is an old problem and a current problem. It is a problem that in each legislature, if you wish, has aggravated, or not, according to external and internal conditions, drastically, the dignity of work in Portugal. It is true that we call for stability in the tax system at every step, because companies want to invest. We call for stability in interest rates at each step, because we need to know what kind of investment companies can make. But here too there is another stability that must necessarily be asked, which is the need for employment and stability in employment, because people who are employed need to know, especially young people, whether they can marry, or not, whether they can have a child or two, or not, whether they have the capacity to educate them or not. They have to be able to make some predictability of their own life. It is in this context, and in the face of the worsening work insecurity in recent years, particularly in public institutions, which have, or are not, permanent labour needs — I will immediately explain what we think about this issue — which indeed needs to be rectified, there is a need to improve and reduce precariousness. There will continue to be stages, real stages, but we must eliminate the false stages. There will always be non-permanent needs and therefore we must separate from the actual permanent needs. We must have this critical capacity, because the organizations themselves accommodate the workers who receive these conditions and they themselves generate this need, which initially was not permanent, but at the end of some time it seems permanent, because they have already accommodated these workers, have already integrated them and no longer pass without them, since, however, they have created routines of integration of these workers and more work for them, because they do indeed have them, otherwise they did not create them. And there is a pressing need to make this critical analysis, relative to both public and private entities. I remember that, with regard to this matter, there is a working group created in June, if I do not miss the memory on day 5, which is exactly raising the permanent needs, or not, and of this whole set of workers that exist in the official services of the State in a precarious situation. It is obvious that there is still a temporary space for this working group to present the results, because if it does not appeal to me the memory, the deadline for presenting the conclusions of this work will be at the end of this month, but, eventually, and we hope that there will be no delay. That is why we understand that we must wait until we can frame them in this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u195	Ah! They're going to vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u196	We're talking about October 31st. Actually, today is day 12, so for those who started this debate in 2006 wait 18 days I think it won't be too long. It's true that you've lost a lot of time for these workers, they've lost a lot of time themselves...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u197	We got it! He'll come down without a vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u198	...because they haven't given them any conditions. Let me now say that, contrary to what Mr Carlos Monteiro has said, it is not a matter of helping. This House and the Government have an obligation to give dignity to all workers. They're not here to help, they're here to dignify the job! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u199	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u200	I will finish, Mr. President. This is taking into account that we think we should wait for the final outcome of the study, which will be on October 31. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u201	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Roque for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are brought to the Left Block by means of a draft resolution, and the Communist Party, through a bill, a new debate on the question of precariousness. But one thing is to highlight: whoever heard the interventions of these two benches, including the Green Bank, came up with the idea that precariousness, and precariousness in the state, was something that began in 2011 with the previous government. Nothing more false! Precautionary is a consequence of the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u204	I'm starting to think this is a recent problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u205	It is a consequence of the lack of growth in this country. And it will only be solved this way. I must say that the previous government, represented here by the PSD and the CDS, does not have to be embarrassed about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u207	Despite particularly difficult financial, economic and social circumstances, we have continuously reduced unemployment since the first quarter of 2013. From that period to the end of the first quarter of 2015, the number of employees on behalf of others with non-term contracts rose to around 181,000, while the number of employees with term contracts increased to more than 63,900 workers. This is because of each job created supported by term contracts, about 2, 8 jobs were created based on permanent working relationships, supported by non-term contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u208	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u209	Therefore, this is a reality that should not be squambling.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u211	Another issue is also the active employment measures or policies. It has already been said here that active employment policies are the social state at its best. That was what Roosevelt did in the 1930s in the United States, that was what Scandinavian countries did in the post-war period and in situations of high unemployment in order to bring people into contact with the world of work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u213	...to allow them to have an income for the same job and can more easily get a job.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u214	That was not a good idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u215	Therefore, something that is introduced in Portugal by previous governments of the Social Democratic Party, the CDS, the Socialist Party, negotiated in the center of social dialogue with the responsible social partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u217	... where everyone sees, are here, a penalty, put in question by these projects of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u218	What radicalism!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u219	We don't think that makes any sense. More: here is, within management, the attempt to create a embarrassment to the Socialist Party and its government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u220	Are you worried about that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u221	If the bill brought here by the Communist Party is approved, it will be an unsustainable cost for the State budget. There goes the deficit and we'll probably have a new rescue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u222	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u223	So you have to be very careful. At a time when public services continue — it is true! — provided and in which the Government reduced working hours per week in the Public Administration from 40 hours to 35 hours, ending employment-inclusion contracts and employment-inclusion + contracts to prevent the municipal chambers of the Setúbal Peninsula, of the Communist Party, from being able to use active employment measures to meet the needs of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u224	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u225	...is strongly irresponsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u226	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u227	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that, of course, although we are the largest parliamentary group and we are in opposition, we do not cease to have a sense of state and will therefore vote against the bill and the draft resolution. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u228	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u229	Mr. President and Mr. Members, on this subject, I shall quote a report from the Ombudsman at the end of 2014: « From evidence of the misuse of these measures by public services and bodies, the judgment I am making is that the unfair and illegal form of such measures, in particular the measure of employment-inclusion contracts, have been used in the Public Administration, to which it is urgent to put an end ». This is contained in a report by the Ombudsman. I'd like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly the PSD and the CDS, if the Ombudsman is a leftist against the European social model. I would also like to ask if you are in favour of...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u230	We're against abuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u231	What the projects of the Left Block and the PCP propose is that these measures be prevented from being used to fill permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u232	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u233	What you say is they're against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u234	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u235	In other words, they are in favour of completing permanent jobs with this type of measure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u236	Don't say things that aren't true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u237	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u238	I'm done now, Mr. President. I was asking them, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are making an appeal here to prevarication of the law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u239	I wonder if you are making an appeal here to the labor mafiosity that uses these measures illegally to avoid recognising employment contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u241	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u242	Just one more second, Mr President, just to say that, on the right, we realize that there are no answers, but the compromise that has been established here by the majority must have a concrete translation into people's lives. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u243	And this implies recognizing employment contracts to which the Public Administration is precarious, trainees and employment-inclusion contracts. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u244	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I do not want to believe that Mr. Members have not even read the PCP bill. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I don't want to believe you didn't even read it, because, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, for you to know what you are going to vote on Friday, the proposal is not to put an end to active employment measures. The proposal is to ensure compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u246	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u247	There's a difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u248	Look carefully, it is to ensure compliance with the law. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing today is correcting a serious injustice and guaranteeing employment with rights. In the 21st century, you can see that you want to defend employment with rights! How bold it is to comply with the Constitution! Which is not acceptable, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 68 000 unemployed workers in our country who receive nothing for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u249	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u250	That's not acceptable. That is why the proposal we bring here, and for which we will continue to beat, is that the alternative to unemployment is not precarious, that it is employment with rights, and that the backwardness has already forced us for four years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u251	Ended discussion of draft law No 135 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and draft resolution No 497 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), we enter the next item on our agenda which consists of the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 494 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the measures necessary for UNICER to fully comply with the commitments undertaken under the project PIN in Salgada Stones ( The Greens) and 499 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the thermal tourism of the Key / Weight of the River ( PS ). To present the Greens initiative, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have always been against the system of PIN projects, and have already presented several bills to eliminate them. However, as these legislative initiatives do not deserve the acceptance of most parliamentary banks, the Greens believe that it is of interest, despite all, to ensure the presence of public interest in existing PIN projects, from the point of view of the need for full compliance by the promoters of the commitments made with the State, because, in fact, the general feeling of the citizens is that companies receive financial and fiscal incentives and often fail to comply with their share. This is what happened in Salgadas Stones, whose populations have long been reporting the failure by the Unicer of the commitments made. in the understanding of the populations, the Unicer, besides not having created the jobs that committed to create in Salgadas Stones, is killing or letting the thermal nature that more than a century ago characterizes the thermal village of Salgadas Stones. It is recalled that the thermal renewal and tourist offer in Salgadas Stones is one of the foundations for the allocation of tax benefits and such generous financial incentives by the State to Unicer. But, after all, the thermal renewal and the tourist offer in Pedras Salgadas is not being verified, nor will it be possible, in fact, with the valuable infrastructure literally closed and the abandonment and without having a single hotel. Where is the deep remodeling of the Park of Salgadas with the construction of hotel, cultural, sports, social and tourist infrastructures of quality promised by Unicer? Let's look at the Unicer's commitments. First, I refer to the rehabilitation of the Hotel Avelames to raise it to a higher category. The Avelames Hotel which had been rebuilt in 1995, with Community funds, was demolished in 2010 ; today, neither the rehabilitated hotel nor the Hotel Avelames nor the superior hotel. I also refer to the creation of a new hotel unit for recovery of the Grand Hotel ; today, the Grand Hotel continues in ruins, literally to abandon, to fall slowly. It was committed to the implementation of museum spaces, but old garages remain closed, the old bottleneck area and Vila Adriana are in total abandonment and the minigolfe is in ruins. As for the sources, only the source of Salgadas Stones is open to the public, because all the others are closed and some of them are abandoned. It was also committed to re-qualifying the marginal area to the river Avelames through the implementation of a thematic garden. Today, the populations of Salgadas Stones still do not see any theme garden. As regards jobs, according to the former employees of the company, no jobs were created in Pedras Salgadas and no jobs were maintained in 2005. In view of this scenario, it is not unusual for people to feel completely disappointed because they are watching the death of their thermal village, because they do not see the creation of jobs, which are so lacking in a strongly unprotected interior region, and because they do not see the promised hotels for tourists who want to enjoy thermalism. But like the populations, the Greens also believe that it is still possible to reborn the thermalism in Saldade Stones, so that Unicer fulfils its commitments. It is therefore important for the Government to force Uniter to comply with its share, the only way to keep the thermalism alive in Saldade Stones.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u253	Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party today presents a legislative initiative in the Assembly of the Republic to touch three points which we consider relevant. The first point should be those which should be health policies and tourism policies. in the next decades, we need to look at the issues that have to do with health tourism, affirming Portugal in an increasingly important and developed market and which must also be a regional development engine in Portugal. That is why, within the framework of the tourism strategy 2027, it is important that we have specific attention to health tourism in the relationship between tourism policies and health policies that are the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The second point, very relevant, has to do with the heritage that Portugal has in the universe of thermalism. For a long time, for many decades, Portugal has stated itself as a space where thermalism has been essential for many Portuguese communities, for many of the territorial communities and must also be seen today as a relevant element in regional development. That is why the Socialist Party, on this initiative, also brings this approach, a broader approach, to health and thermal issues. Finally, Mr President, I would like to leave Mr. Members a note on the issues related to the Vila Real district, specifically with initiatives in Vidago and in Salgadas Stones. The district of Vila Real is just the district where there are more initiatives in the thermal field: Keys, Vidago, Salgadas Stones, Carlão and Régua are thermal spaces with high potential. Of course, we also need to look at the complementarity, either in terms of offer or in terms of the affirmation of the vocations of each land. And we should look at the heritage that is added to this thermal space in the sense of valuing it to also put it at the service of Portuguese tourism. When we look at this territory in its relationship, for example, with Galicia, we also have to check the complementarity of the offer with the spaces that are side by side in the province of Ourense. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, brought here these subjects, which are very important, it is important that Parliament also focus on the availability that exists on the territory. Finally, I do an analysis of the PIN that led to considerable investments in Vidago and Salgadas Stones. We understand that at the moment it is important to truly know the situation of projects that have been approved for this region for a long time now. We know the investments that have already been made, but it is important that we make an assessment of the investments that have not been made, and it is essential that we be aware of those that have been the disauthorisations that the previous government has granted to these projects. In other words, the previous government has relieved the public responsibilities of this project of national interest where it matters that Parliament, the country and the region truly know the circumstances in which this happened. Therefore, Mr President, we are presenting here today an initiative aimed at putting the issues of thermalism in the political debate in the areas of health and tourism, without fail making an assessment of those which are the most territorial and local initiatives and which were also important in this same debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u255	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I begin by congratulating Mr José Luís Ferreira for presenting, in the Hemicycle, this project PIN of Unicer in Vidago, Salgadas Stones. For us, it is an interesting initiative, but actually it leaves me a little confused. And I am confused for a very simple reason: I do not understand why you do not directly ask Mr Prime Minister or Mr Minister for Economic Affairs why you do not solve the matter directly, since you are part of a coalition that supports the government, because you are very friends. So we don't realize why they don't solve the matter directly. This is because if what is at issue is a matter of non-compliance with the law, then the law is complied with. That is the central issue, and you will allow me honestly to say to you: let me enforce the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u257	You don't have anything else to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u258	Therefore, in particular, I do not understand the presentation of the initiative for a very simple reason: if the objective is that Unicer fulfils a contract, if it is not being fulfilled, with the Portuguese State... i.e., so that the law is fulfilled are not necessary errands, nor draft resolutions, sent through the Assembly of the Republic, I think. Be very clear about that. Now I want to tell you that the PSD is in favour of fulfilling all the obligations of companies with the State, whether to Unite, whatever the company, there are no exceptions. Therefore, the law is respected in this and in all cases—that is what we defend. Then what do we know specifically about this project? We know that it is a project approved in 2005, which, in initial terms, was the subject of a proposed change in 2010, as regards investment values, numbers of jobs to be maintained and created, and the tax incentives and benefits of the project to be received, in this case by the Unicer Group. If the project is not closed and if there are commitments that have not been made by either side, there is no doubt that Salgadas Stones need, of course, public investments and many private investments that create jobs and wealth in the region. Unicer is, and must continue to be, a fundamental partner of that village and the municipality in promoting local development throughout that territory. It's fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u259	He's alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u260	But, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, if you want to really help Salada Stones and their people, you have a great opportunity here to do so. Mr. President of the House of Vila Pouca de Aguiar, who must be listening to us at this time and to whom I greet, has a project of the waters of the Cardal, in particular the construction of a spa, whose project needs financing in Portugal 2020. Why don't you help him, asking for support from Mr. Minister of Economy or Mr. Prime Minister, your friends? [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] Mr. Deputies, it is the least you are asked who is a friend of the coalition. It's the least! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u261	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to begin by greeting and, from now on, to say that we are following the initiative of the Green Party. We are not discussing the PINs, the projects of potential national interest, which have always deserved strong criticism from the PCP, but we can say that this is a beautiful example of what should not happen. What is at stake is the need to ensure the public interest and not to allow companies that have already received millions and millions of euros for tax benefits and other financial support to fail to meet their investment and job creation obligations. We have no doubt in saying that this little embarrassment of the economic groups takes money from the state, from all of us, without even fulfilling their contractual obligations has to end. In 2005 the exchange of millions of euros in tax support and benefits, which it received, Unicer was obliged to promote thermalism in the Saldade Stones and create jobs. It had to keep the 220 existing jobs and create 110 new jobs. In 2012 the PSD/CDS-PP government reduced the jobs to be created from 110 to 58 and delivered more million to Unicer. Unicer continued to do nothing; on the contrary, not only did he not create jobs, as he did not keep existing jobs. But Mr. PSD thinks it's all right! And instead of promoting thermalism in the Saldada Stones, Unicer is killing the thermalism. While the sale of bottled water represented EUR 25 million of its activity in 2015, thermalism represented around €24 000, i.e. less than 10 % of Unicer's activity. If we look at the thermal frequency data, we notice that the saltstones were in the middle of the table, of 40 existing thermal instances. And if we look at health thermalism, medical thermalism, which characterized that region, we only record 36 entries in that unit in 2015. There is, therefore, the need to revive the thermalism of the Saldada Stones by the potential, quality and importance it has for regional development. in this regard, Mr President and Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the recommendation presented by the Green Party to the Assembly of the Republic: « Develop the measures necessary for the Union to fully comply with the commitments made under the PIN project (...) in Salgadas Stones». I would say that this is the minimum compromise that can be demanded of those who are at least good-faith and who meet what is the defence of national interest. It is therefore entirely fair to approve this draft resolution by the Green Party. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u263	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has a problem in its economic development model today. in the first half of 2016, Portugal grew less than 1 % compared to an accumulated growth of 1, 6 % in 2015. We grow less than the European Union, which puts us again at odds, which puts us further away from the growth and economic development that has been effectively promised to us by this Government supported by the Left. In fact, it was today that the government announced that it lowered the economic growth estimate for 2016. And, of all the variables, the one that's running worse is the variable of the investment. The investment forecast for this year was that investment should grow 4, 9 %, but the fact is that in the first half it fell 2, 7 %, giving a differential of 7, 6 % compared to the forecast.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u265	You're not talking about UNICER? Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u266	Do you have anything to say? Go to the Public Prosecutor's Office or shut up! Be a little man!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u267	What Portugal has to do is capture investment, attract investors, farmers, inside and outside the borders, capitals. For this reason, we in the CDS, unlike the leftmost benches, have always said that it makes sense the existence of own projects, which makes sense to contract specific support, which makes all the sense to contract precise incentives to businesses and investors. Often this is what makes the real difference at the time of investment. PIN projects make sense; they make sense if support and objectives are contracted, they make sense if incentives are contracted, but also goals. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] This is dually important within the country, because we know that in many areas it is even more difficult to capture investment. It is still early to make the full evaluation of this project because what is foreseen in the investment contract is that this evaluation is done at the end of 2017. [[PCP laughter.]] In any case, it is possible to say the following: for an investment that was planned to be EUR 54 million, EUR 85 million has already been invested, i.e. a higher amount than it was contracted. With regard to the forecast of the creation or maintenance of 278 jobs, at the moment this project is ensuring 298 jobs, i.e. a higher number than was expected in the initial investment. For this reason, we are here to effectively make the evaluation and to do it in each of their times, particularly those that were contracted. Mr President, in conclusion, I want to say that there is a paradox that we cannot fail to sign here today. In fact, it is true that there was an amendment in this project in 2010. [[In 2012!]] [[In 2012!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u268	The major change in this project was the contractualization with the state to, instead of building a hotel, if they make ecological houses, environmentally sustainable houses, houses that, curiously, received all the prizes of the specialty. Mr. José Luís Ferreira (The Greens):- Green houses!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u269	The great paradox here is to see a party such as the Green Party to prefer concrete to environmentally sustainable houses, to prefer cement to investments that today are effectively prestigious both the region and the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Green Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u270	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u271	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, I will not make any comments, but the honourable Member has spoken of anything less than what he was interested in. Even came here with the waters of the Cardal, which have nothing to do with the matter! Let me make only one correction to you and Mr. Pedro Mota Soares : the addition to the contract is 2012, with the PSD / CDS government. I have a copy here that I can give them, if they're reading the wrong date. It was in this addiction that the jobs ceased to be 110 and became 58. And, moreover, Mr Deputy, since he says that only at the end of the contract is that this has to be decided, let me tell him that you made an addition to the contract in 2012 in which they said: « UNICER undertakes to create 58 jobs until 31 December 2011 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u272	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u273	You see what the dimension of this is? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputies, a hotel was exchanged for echo houses. I don't know where this is written, but actually echo houses are there. It would suffice to paint them of green to remove such paradox as it refers to. But, sir, you didn't talk about the other hotel. UNICER has undertaken to build two hotels. One was exchanged for echo houses. What about the other one? Yeah, don't say! He's in there with the flies! Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that if the State has complied with its share, and it has not been little in terms of tax benefits and financial incentives, UNICER will also have to comply. It is not acceptable for a company to install itself, do what it understands with the project and with the commitments it has made with the state and merely take a good of nature as unique and unique as are the gaseous and medicinal waters of the Salgadas Stones, leaving the populations of Salgadas Stones to their fate. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u274	Mrs. Members, let us come to the last item on our agenda, which concerns the evaluation of the Report of the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry into the Process that Leaded to the Sale and Resolution of the International Funchal Bank ( BANIF ). To begin this item on the agenda, Mr President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, Mr Antonio Filipe, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course a few words are justified on my part, inasmuch as it will certainly be up to the parliamentary groups to express their views on the content of this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission. for my part, I would just like to say that I am honored by the fact that I have presided over this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission and I believe that it was entirely fair for the decision taken by the Assembly of the Republic to set up this Commission, dealing in a case which cost a lot of money to the Portuguese taxpayers, another case of a Portuguese bank that passed to the hands of a foreign bank under conditions which it was important to clarify properly so that the Portuguese and the Assembly of the Republic could ascertain all the facts surrounding this Banif situation and so that all political responsibilities can be ascertained by the decisions taken. The Assembly of the Republic and the Country had every right to know what happened in BANIF. Therefore, this Committee of Inquiry was fully justified and, in my view, it has fulfilled its mandate with all commitment and effectiveness. It was difficult to make a strict settlement of the facts and responsibilities. It should be said here that there have been difficulties with certain entities, in particular DGComp, the European Union, the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which have been created by the Commission of Inquiry to obtain all the information the Commission needed. It is only because of a great deal of commitment from the Commission and from all the parliamentary groups that participated in it, and with great insistence on our part, it was still possible to obtain an information acquis which enabled the Committee of Inquiry to complete its work in a satisfactory way. I wanted to leave a special thank you to the gentlemen. Vice-Presidents of the Commission, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão and Mr Luís Marques Guedes, for their prompt availability as Members of the Bureau of this Commission ; Mr Co-ordinators of the parliamentary groups and the other members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry ; to the support services, which were inexhaustible in all that was necessary, in particular in all the contacts necessary for the Commission to carry out its work ; and finally I wanted to congratulate Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, rapporteur of this Commission, on the magnificent work he has done in preparing this report. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] Regardless of the positions that all parliamentary groups have in relation to their content, and certainly because of the explanations of vote which have been expressed differ with regard to the content of the report, everyone will recognize that this has been a great work, a thorough task of ascertaining facts and responsibilities which justifies and prestigious this Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry and which, I believe, also contributes to the prestige of the Assembly of the Republic. This is the last word I wanted to leave, naturally renewing my thanks to all of you. Members and all those who have participated in the work of this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, to which I must, with great honor, preside. [[PCP, PSD, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u276	I now give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, wrote the poet Mário Cesariny : « It is made light by the process of removing shadows ». That's what we've been trying to do. Despite the light of the media statement of the Banif case, the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission prepared a report in which prejudices from the first glance could give rise to facts and conclusions leading to the response to concerns, to the scope and objectives of the resolution adopted by this House. The "shades" that existed were revealed by the systematic method around three major questions: why did the State have to capitalise on BANIF in January 2013? Why was it impossible to approve a restructuring plan, despite the eight versions submitted to the Directorate-General for Competition between 2013 and 2015? And finally, why did the State spend EUR 4 billion on public aid, which eventually led to a final exposure of more than EUR 3 billion, in a resolution process? The answer to the first question lies in a need identified, even during the last quarter of 2012, of EUR 1100 million of public aid to a bank that presented an unsustainable business model, with high exposure to the real estate sector, with poor or even reckless risk management and a fragile and insufficient information organisation and systems. The shareholders, the administrators, but also the bank supervisor, particularly in the period prior to the intervention of the troika, showed at least little effectiveness. The results of the forensic audit, however, and the legal actions around BANIF Brazil, can demonstrate that, in addition to incompetence, we can also find evidence of a civil and criminal nature. Part of the answer to the second question lies in the inability to meet the objectives set out in the December 2012 Capitalisation Plan — a deviation in the order of EUR 500 million in net results and EUR 360 million in the sale of assets. This aspect adds up to errors and inaccuracies that have continuously withdrawn credibility from the Bank to the European Commission and led to the opening of an in-depth investigation procedure, together with the identification during the first half of 2015 of a regulatory capital deficit within the framework of the Capital Requirements Directive, leading Banif to stress tests carried out in accordance with the EBA methodology ( European Banking Authority ). On 17 November 2015, a schedule for the sale of the Bank was established until the end of the year in order to avoid the Bank's resolution by the European Resolution Authority already in 2016, in a framework where deposits of more than €100,000 would be unprotected and eligible for an internal recapitalisation process. It is clear that the political management of the process between 2013 and 2015 postponed a sale of the Bank or the anticipation of a carve out solution with sale of the so-called clean bank. This postponement, at the same time that the State has repeatedly failed to fulfil its commitments to the Directorate-General for Competition, is a responsibility of the XIX and the XX Constitutional Governments. Just as it is your responsibility and the bank supervisor that the voluntary sale process was launched in November 2015 in the molds in which it was executed by the Banif Administration during the month of December of that year. in the end, in response to the third question, four binding and unviable proposals emerged because they involve more State aid. A resolution-based sale process was followed, with the limits set by the Directorate-General for Competition and the ECB, but only with a single buyer sitting at the negotiating table, in a situation where a non-sale to Banco Santander Totta could entail the liquidation of BANIF, with all the consequences for employment, for older creditors and for the economic activity that a decision such as these would entail. This solution was not perfect, since it did not prevent the existence of injured persons who lost their savings in a largely public bank since January 2013, to which is added the precarious situation of workers transferred to the Eighth. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there are shadows that persist—and indeed some persist— there is one that I cannot fail to mention here: to perceive many of the decisions of the European bodies, either by manifest refusal of the ECB to respond to this ICC (Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry ), taking refuge in its status, or even from the Directorate-General for Competition, which has responded late and which has been completely impossible to confront and inquire about many aspects. That is why one of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has been to send our conclusions to the European Parliament so that the work of scrutiny and suffrage can continue there. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I could not finish without thanking the Members from this rostrum. Members of the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry, in particular Mr. President, Mr. Antonio Filipe, and Mr. Vice-Presidents, Filipe Neto Brandão and Luís Marques Guedes, but also to all Mrs. Members who, with comments and different perspectives, were supporting the rapporteur in the construction of the report which was voted on in the Commission's office in July 2016. But I also leave a word for the advisers and workers of the Assembly of the Republic, for the advisers of the parliamentary groups and for the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists who followed the work of this Committee of Inquiry. It was the work of everyone that made Parliament able to carry out its task of scrutiny; it was with the work of all that it was possible to remove shadows and shed light on the Banif process. Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your indulgence. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u278	You now have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by expressing, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, a sincere thanks to the high and impartial work of the President of the Commission and the Bureau, and to the Members. Vice-Presidents, whenever they have been called to serve as President. I am grateful and grateful to the support services of the Commission and the Members. Journalists who followed his work. However, Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group is obliged to recognise that this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry did not want to learn from the relevant lessons of the BES Committee of Inquiry, which it had before. Unfortunately, the balance of this Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry cannot fail to be negative. And why? First of all, because it returned to the times of the « majority compressor roll », in which the purposes of the opposition were crushed, without appeal or aggravating, as happened with the repeated refusal of an independent audit to the BANIF and the conditions of its resolution. Secondly, because it resumed the practice, which seemed definitely abandoned, of the lack of cooperation of the Government with the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry. We are still awaiting the documents repeatedly requested by the Ministry of Finance and never received. Thirdly, the rapporteur's bad habit was to offer the Report to journalists, accompanied by their specific political reading, even before the Commission was in a position to analyse, and unfortunately condition the constructive proposals that could exist in this Report. Thus, Mr President, the new majority did not know how to be a majority and eventually conditioned the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u281	The report, instead of reducing these malfunctions of operation, accentuated them, becoming even in their faithful mirror. The report pointed out voluntarily the facts found in the Commission, and its central concern is, on the one hand, an impossible whitening of the role of the current government, attempting to represent a situation in which the resolution, as it has been done, would be the only possible way, which has been proved false during the work, and on the other hand an almost pathetic effort to throw blame or to the Banco de Portugal or to the previous government, only trying to discharge the responsibilities of the resolution by those who have done so and have announced it to the country as their work and that even they were very proud. The report, curiously, also forgets that the current government has abandoned the line of direction that existed and was proved during the hearings, that the resolution and the consequent donation of BANIF to Santander was a conscious option of this government ; and that the resolution ignores and leaves the discovery of the interests of the workers of BANIF, whose rights are still in danger today. The report is frighteningly attempting to ignore the dramatic effects of the TVI news, which unchallenged the sales process that was under way and caused the flight of EUR 1030 million of deposits in a single week. in this respect, the silence of the report is even absurd, almost like a freighter to the information director of the TVI, responding to the initial freighter's having planted the television news that defined the end of the BANIF, even taking into account the legal processes that are currently under way. What a sad role of judicial support, Mr Rapporteur, if you wanted to give your report! Finally, Mr President, we have tried to erase the most permanent figure in the report from this whole ICC: that of the Minister of Finance, Mário Centeno. Mr. Mário Centeno was in the ICC three times and contradicted his Secretary of State, contradicted his Prime Minister and denied himself consecutively ; he gave false statements without any shame, leading to the need of the PSD Parliamentary Group to draw up a « table of reverses », so many of them were by Mr. Mário Centeno ; he recalled important information from the Commission and tried to mislead Members, for example, on the aid investigation process in Portugal. thus, the report is inadequate in terms of facts and tendency towards political tone and cannot obtain the approval of the PSD Parliamentary Group. This ICC and its report were a lost opportunity, the only advantage of which was to observe the radical extreme left parties, those who noted that they were fighting without a quartet against the capital and against the private bank—I still remember Dr. Louçã and not being able to say « bank», the « baaanca», such was the rage he had at that time—and that they contradicted, in this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission, through his words and actions, everything they said about the private bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u282	What a sad figure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u283	And that was the greatest curiosity of this Committee of Inquiry. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u284	You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, after hearing him, the first question I would like to ask you, the PSD Members and also the CDS Members, is to read Mr Eurico Brillante Dias' report. I am sure, I have no doubt, that all of you. Ladies and gentlemen read the report. I'm sure they read it. I just don't understand why you are not ashamed of all the factual responsibilities involved in that report. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, it seems unbelievable that in his speech he is able to make a whim of fantasy, and the most incredible is the one in which he says that one of the leaders of this process is only the Minister of Finance of the PS Government, who has been three months in the process — three months, Mr Deputy! [[PSD laughter.]] This is absolutely unbelievable! Unbelievable! So, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim and Mrs. Members of the PSD, what part of the history have you not yet understood so as not to understand that the great responsibility, the great responsibility in the case of BANIF is obviously the PSD/CDS coalition government? Oh, my God! And, honourable Member, in order not to go to the extensive and deep Report of Mr Eurico Brilhante Dias, I just wanted to read - part of a news from June 2016, in addition to a completely suspicious newspaper whose title is very elucidative. The title says « Case BANIF-Brussels razes the performance of the Coelho Pass Government ». It was not the Government of the Socialist Party, it was not the Members, nor even the Commission of Inquiry, it is Brussels that takes the action of the Coelho Pass Government! And, if you want, we can continue and read part of the news, which says: « Vestager is concerned to make clear the European Commission's dissatisfaction with the way the Government of Steps dealt with BANIF. Moreover, the frissy Commissioner who had already demonstrated this discontent to Maria Luís Albuquerque". Now, we know that Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque always hides herself in the last row of the plenary, but she is in the first line of responsibility for this process of BANIF — we all know of this, the country knows of this and everyone knows of it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]] The honourable Member wants to hide this, but it is not possible to hide it, and it is very ugly to throw sand and shit on top of the Minister for Finance. But, sir, we're not staying here. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen also wanted... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u286	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for setting up conditions for your intervention, as you have done before.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u287	As I said, the gentlemen. Members also wanted to hide what everyone saw when this Committee of Inquiry began to operate. It's just the ladies. Deputies, in fact, put BANIF under the carpet, hid BANIF under the carpet,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u288	Before the carpet below Santander!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u289	...to see if no one understood, because they wanted to present to the Portuguese a "clean out" of the country. But they were not able to do that, because, unfortunately, that "clean exit" was a full of shit and who had to solve that shit was actually the Socialist Party's government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, I will finish by saying two more things. The first is that Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, in his speech, said he was against the facts. We do not understand this statement, because in the vote on the report, as far as the facts are concerned, it has abstained. I therefore do not understand what Mr and the PSD have to say about this. Finally, a final word for the injured Banif, who are victims in this process,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u290	What about the workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u291	...for the workers, for the injured Banif and for the Portuguese taxpayers. It must be said that you have made the injured, the workers and the Portuguese taxpayer victims, victims who had no chance of fleeing this issue. It is that you did not want to solve the Banif problem in good time, by political interests, because the elections were close. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u292	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u293	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u294	To defend the honour, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u295	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u296	Mr President, I would like to say to the PS Member that I am not hiding, I am here, I see, I am watching this debate, I am listening to the argument. Mr President, I have never been hidden from anything, much less from the responsibilities that I am in or that I am in the process and which I have had occasion to clarify. I would also like to ask the honourable Member if he thinks that the value and importance of each of the Members of this House is measured by the place where he sits... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u297	Is that a question?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u298	...and extends your analysis to all Mr. Ladies and gentlemen who sit in the last row. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u299	To reply, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u300	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, I reiterate what she said: with regard to the Banif case, she has always avoided answering the questions in a affirmative manner. [[PSD protests.]] We have seen Mrs Deputy on television several times, in interviews, saying that she did not know the numbers, she did not know the facts, she did not know the circumstances. So I reaffirm what I said. It is not worth hiding in the last row of Parliament because its responsibilities are great and we are not the only ones who say it, it is not just the Committee of Inquiry who says it, it is the European Union who says it and other entities have already said it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u301	We will resume the thread of our interventions. You have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to begin by congratulating the Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, Members and Members coordinators of their parliamentary groups and all officials who have followed and allowed these intensive work, as always is the work of a Committee of Inquiry. Although I had not planned to say it in this speech, and controversial aside — the latter is certainly one of them — I cannot fail to note that I find the speech by Mr Abreu Amorim regrettable. Sorry! It is regrettable not only because the consequences and the political conclusions we draw may be different — and it is normal to be, it is normal for Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim to have a politically different position than that of the Left Block or the PS — but accusations of a compressor roll...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u303	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u304	... when all the work was done, when there was always openness to everything to be discussed and when, in fact, the Commission was so open and the facts were so reflected in the report that the CDS abstained... if it were so radical, if there was such a radical compressor roll on the left, I think it would be difficult for the CDS to abstain from voting on the report of this Committee of Inquiry. on the contrary, we had a PSD with a small attitude, always trying to do chicana, always trying to find a reason to go to the newspapers to become victim, creating conditions for the work not to proceed in the best way, and I think that, yes, did not help the Commission's work and much less the role of accusations it makes here about news that has been passed on to the TVI, when there is no proof even of the accusation it has made or of exchanges of favors. And it wasn't even me I was accusing. But I must say that I think this has so little basis that these comments are regrettable right now. Regarding the case of BANIF, it reflects in four points the history of our country. First of all, it reflects a greedy bank that grew under the shadow of political power, and I do not say only of the rotating door that rolled characters between the power parties, the PS and the PSD, and the bank itself, I say to the shadow of a supposed model of growth and economic development that thought that financial liberalization, free movement of capital and speculation could be viable in the long term, and it has been shown that they were not viable, speculative bubbles have been created and have not contributed to the stability of the country, nor to the economic consolidation, nor to the production growth model that would be desired. Secondly, it reflects a regulatory and supposedly supervisor who has been systematically unable to avoid the worst, and we are not naive when we accuse the supervisor. It is not always possible to avoid the worst, and that is why it explains the fact that the financial crisis is global. The EDF ( FederalReserve System ) was unable to avoid the worst in the United States, neither the Bank of England in England, nor the Deutsche Bank in Germany. But in the Portuguese case, there is a permanent attitude that goes beyond incompetence and has to do with an attitude of compliance and complicity of the regulator towards the private bank and toward the public bank, towards the bank that is supposed to supervise. The regulator in Portugal sees itself as part of the bank and not as an independent entity that is supposed to supervise it. This was already visible in the past, but it has been very obvious during the times when Dr. Carlos Costa was Governor of Banco de Portugal. We therefore repeat that for a long time he should have ceased to be a Governor, because he has no conditions on the basis of these facts. Thirdly, it reflects how the PSD and CDS government ignored the Banif problem. And there is no way to escape this fact. It was pushing with the belly, avoiding making a decision, because a decision would have serious political costs, because a decision involved an intervention, because the New Bank had been intervened with the promise that it would have no costs for taxpayers, when, in fact, we knew that it would have costs for taxpayers. So I did not want to assume the political weight of this decision and that had consequences. Fourthly — and I am finishing — it reflects the role of the European institutions, which have demonstrated all their hermitism, all their discretion, all their arbitrariness and conditioned the result to promote the concentration of the bank in Santander, in an operation that gave BANIF to Santander. Finally, as it could not fail to be, it reflects the Government of the Republic, which was unable to prevent this conditioning and accepted the worst possible solution, which was to deliver BANIF to Santander. The Left Block always opposed and voted against this possibility, and the PSD, knowing well about its responsibilities in the case, abstained and allowed EUR 3000 million to be injected into BANIF for this to be delivered to Santander. There are many consequences that we must take from this case, as structural consequences, and we must know what measures we have to take in order to actually change what is happening in the bank. I give a final word to the injured and the workers to say that we will be attentive to everything that is happening in the Eighth and to all the consequences of the BANIF process. The time it had already ended long ago and I am afraid I can't continue, so I just want to say that the Left Block will monitor both the situation of the workers in order to ensure that their rights are respected — and we know how this has not happened in these cases — and the situation of the injured, for whom we think there must be a response. The injured cannot fall into the forgetfulness of Santander, in particular, which took the Banif de Bolla, practically, and which has a responsibility for them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u305	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I address a first word of satisfaction both to the support services, both to Parliament and to the journalists who followed the Committee of Inquiry. Secondly, I would like to say that the implementation of the Committee of Inquiry, in addition to being a time to ascertain responsibilities and facts, is essential for citizens to have the perception and to be able to know what has actually happened in the BANIF. This was particularly important because it is another case related to the bank, followed by many and many others who have already weighed—and they have weighed too much! — on the shoulders of the Portuguese. In a Committee of Inquiry it is normal that there is no agreement in the political assessment, but what is already quite less normal and quite less reasonable is that there is no agreement in the facts. And it was with this attitude that the CDS entered this Committee of Inquiry. I have to say with absolute sincerity that we have tried to maintain — and we have maintained — this attitude to the end. Interventions such as what Mr. Carlos Pereira did are a kind of incorporation of everything that should not happen in a Committee of Inquiry, for the absolute bias and politicization of the committees of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] The CDS received the initial report from the rapporteur, presented proposals and analysed the final version of this report. The final work allows an overview and includes several proposals made by the CDS, which we acknowledge and greet, but we must not fail to recognize that the final report is not balanced, because both in the phases and in the areas that are presented there are differences of depth and detail that demonstrate bias. We have already been alerted to these imbalances in the initial presentation of the report, and some gaps have been filled with the proposals we have made and received, although this has not happened to others. This was the case, for example, of the proposals that we have made by highlighting the failure by the current Government to fulfil the responsibilities assumed for the supervision of the Eighth ; it was the case of the report that it did not fully demonstrate the responsibilities of the current Government in relation to the European institutions, with the acceptance in four minutes of the European non-response to a national requirement ; it was the case of the proposals relating to the Banco de Portugal, which accepted informal positions of the European institutions, such as that of the transitional bank, without the proper interaction being deepened in that report ; and it was the case of a reflection on what was the role of the European institutions and their often informal participation because it was accepted that participation was informal in this process, and the divergences between the various bodies, the Commission and the entities of the European Central Bank. We have found much less detail in these matters than would be balanced. in this sense, proposals from the CDS were accepted that mitigated the imbalance, but there is a imbalance that continues to exist and therefore we were unable to vote in favour of the report. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u307	I thank Mrs Cecilia Meireles for her time-containing effort. Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I greet Mr President of the Commission, Mr António Filipe, and the Vice-Presidents for the way in which the work took place and were directed by the Bureau of the Committee of Inquiry, the Members who constituted it, the coordinators, the rapporteur, for the work you have done, to the officials of the Commission and the parliamentary groups for the very important contribution they have made to its functioning. The Commission's work, as has already been mentioned here, took place within the framework of the object set and made it possible for the Assembly of the Republic and the Portuguese to be aware and ascertained of decisive facts in the BANIF process, denouncing and exposing the nature of the private bank and its operations, even though there has been a parliamentary group — which, in fact, today, has not changed the speech, by the way it has made it worse — which tried to boycott, harass and mingle the Commission's work since the first day of meetings. This Parliamentary Group was that of the PSD, which had a quite different behaviour in this Commission than that of the BES Committee of Inquiry, in which no political responsibilities were established, merely creating a demon in the bank and excluding all politicians responsible for the Portuguese financial system. There, yes, there was support from the PSD, because it was not responsible, unlike the PCP, that voted against this report by the BES Committee of Inquiry precisely because it has unlawfully and removed political responsibilities, which has been appropriate for the PSD and other PSC and PSD governments, with or without the CDS. This Commission pointed out with greater clarity than usual, not only the contradictions between the rules of operation of the financial system and the national interest but also the contradictions inherent in the functioning of the European Union, its institutions, and how they contrast with national interest and sovereignty from the beginning of the process, from interaction with the PSD/CDS Government to interaction with the current government and the Commission of Inquiry itself. The opacity, the delay, the way in which the European institutions have dealt with this whole process and the arbitrariness itself demonstrate well that democracy is not compatible with the withdrawal of power, especially the power over the financial system of the citizens. This Commission made it very clear the responsibilities of the former Government. Moreover, the way in which the report does not steal from detailing the responsibilities of each of the governments during their mandates in the BANIF process is the main reason why the CFP favourably votes the Report in all its parts. Today we could not fail to recall the responsibilities contained in the report and that the Commission decided on the previous government and the criminal way it dealt with the Banif case. Furthermore, it not only gave BANIF EUR 1100 million without any counterpart as it did not take any action to return the Bank to a path of sustainability and viability, which, by that time, as DGComp itself later confirmed, would be impossible. The former government did not only do so as it decided not to intervene in the Bank in favour of the public interest, allowing the private shareholder to continue to manage it, even though at that time the whole capital of the institution was already public. BANIF was robbed, but it was not by encapsulated, it was by ingravated, who were the shareholders, the management and administration of the Bank itself. And it was attacked by the « beards » of Banco de Portugal, which worked as the biombo that did not allow Portuguese and depositors to realize that their money was being taken out of that institution and allowed the former government to provide EUR 1100 million of Portuguese to put in a bank that was a genuine ice cream. Therefore, the Banco de Portugal, the regulator, worked more like a Banif advertising agency that was saying that everything was okay when Banif was in a direction of announced bankruptcy and at the same time worked as the hand of the banks with public opinion, and not as the hand of the Portuguese with the banks, which is what convinces the Portuguese that the Banco de Portugal is. To conclude, Mr. President and Mr. Members, about the situations that persist and that should still deserve the attention of the Assembly of the Republic, in addition to the initiatives that are already being discussed in the specialty, I address a word to the workers of BANIF and to all those who have been directly injured, where also the Portuguese, taxpayers and Portuguese workers are included. It is now necessary to safeguard and defend the rights of Banif workers and taxpayers, but it is also necessary to ensure that, once and for all, this cycle of bankruptcy paid by the Portuguese people has ceased, and that is only with the public control of the bank to prevent such engravated persons from continuing to manage it at their pleasure. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-12.u309	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus finishing our agenda today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow, at 3 p.m., and the agenda includes, by marking the PSD, the general discussion of Bill No. 292 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the status of low-density territories ( PSD ) and there may be a vote at the end of the debate. I wish everyone a good end of the day. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 52 minutes.]]
