ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we will start this meeting of the Standing Committee. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. It is, of course, with sadness and emotion that we meet today the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic. He left us, yesterday, one of the best of us all. António Barbosa de Melo was a great President of the Assembly of the Republic. He has always sought to be a President of all Members, as is the responsibility of all the Presidents of this House. He was at the foundation of the PPD / PSD, he was a social-democrat of the first hour, but that did not prevent him from talking to all alike. He was a man of institutional dialogue, of a democratic culture, by all respected. I remember your presidency well because that was the first legislation that I fully fulfilled. It was at that time that I took on new political responsibilities and it was then that I met him closely and I used to admire him. At the same time I saw him concerned about the signs of the withdrawal of citizens from political participation, and we are talking about 1991. It was the initiative of the Youth Parliament, a healthy practice of institutional openness and democratic socialization which has marked successive generations. The excellence of his mandate was the corollary of a truly remarkable academic, civic and political life. Barbosa de Melo was the foundation of our democratic regime. He was in the Constituent Assembly and previously participated in the elaboration of the electoral law of the Constituent Assembly. Electoral laws are special laws, they define the rules of the democratic game that we all agree to loyally respect. It's not work for anyone. But it was a task for him, eminent jurist, renowned professor of Constitutional and Administrative Law at the University of Coimbra. It was a brilliant teacher who marked several generations. He left his fingerprint in the PPD Program, winning his vision well. He remained faithful to that vision. He was a citizen engaged in the causes of his life and in the debates of his time. A social democrat and a municipalist who defends the virtues of decentralization and approximation between voters and decision makers. Leave us a great miss. His memory remains, for it was great the work that he left at the University and House of Democracy, the Assembly of the Republic. I shall give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to proceed with the reading of vote No 119 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of the former President of the Assembly of the Republic and Mr Honorary, Professor Doctor António Barbosa de Melo ( AR President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on November 2, 1932, in Casa da Cruz Coverta, in Lagares, Penafiel, was born Antonio Moreira Barbosa de Melo. It is within a large family and farmers that António Barbosa de Melo has a happy childhood until it is reached, at the age of 11, by a coxalgia of tuberculosis that marked it for the rest of his life. This did not prevent him from continuing his studies in an exemplary way, from Lagares to the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra, which he adopted as his home throughout his life. Scholar of excellence, his eloquence was recognized by colleagues and students and caused admiration to those who heard or read it, and can continue to read, the numerous works he published. In parallel with a brilliant career at the University, Professor António Barbosa de Melo participated actively in the civic life of his country, always with zeal, competence and dedication, generating the recognition of all those who lived with him. It is therefore natural to see its political involvement after the April 1974 Revolution, which soon occurs in the foundation of the PPD, today the PSD, which has integrated the Commission for the drafting of the electoral law for the Constituent Assembly. Elected Member of the Constituent Assembly, he plays the role of parliamentary leader of the PPD in this Assembly, with a central role, alongside others, in the preparation of the 1976 Constitution. He was also elected to the Assembly of the Republic in 1981, 1985, 1987, 1991 and 1995. In 1991 Antonio Barbosa de Melo took over the Presidency of the Assembly of the Republic, at the will of his peers. Its Presidency was marked by the defence of the parliamentary institution, by Parliament's reform, with a view to improving the working conditions of Members and Members of Parliament, but above all by an irreprehensible exemption which allowed all elected people to be revered in the image and figure of their President. His exemplary career in the academy and political activity was recognized in the country and abroad, receiving the highest decorations of Chile, Tunisia, Morocco and Brazil. In Portugal, Antonio Barbosa de Melo was thanked with the Great Cruz of the Military Order of Christ and with the Great Cruz of the Order of Freedom, for the high services provided to our democracy. however, Professor Barbosa de Melo is more than the positions he held, than the works he published, than the decorations he received. António Barbosa de Melo is a moral reference, a striking personality for all those who had the privilege of sharing with him a few minutes of their lives. With an endless culture and a desire to talk endlessly, it was easy to lose time to hear it reflect on the past, the present and the future of our society. Convict personalist, idealist to the end, are many of the longings that he leaves in Parliament, at the university, in the country. The Assembly of the Republic deeply regrets the death of the illustrious citizen, of the exemplary Member and of his former President Antonio Moreira Barbosa de Melo and addresses his wife, children and other family, to his friends and the Democratic Social Party the deepest condolences".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u3	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying that it is with a very deep respect that I will utter these very short but very sorry words. When we speak of Barbosa de Melo we speak of a man of the academy, as mentioned, a man of politics, as mentioned, but above all, what he wanted to emphasize, an active citizen. I think this is extremely important. He brought with him, spoke and practiced the gift of the word. His eloquence, the fact that he is a brilliant speaker, I consider to be one of the striking features of Barbosa de Melo. I did not have the opportunity to get to know him very well, personally, because I knew him as President of the Assembly of the Republic when, in the Parliament from 1991 to 1995, I went through this House for 45 days, replacing, at the time, Mr André Martins. It was on those 45 days that I had the opportunity to personally meet as President of the Assembly of the Republic. And it was inevitable to see, not only here, but also as a citizen, what citizens have the opportunity to see out there: a President of the Assembly of the Republic who represented this Parliament in a very competent way and who indeed dignified it. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, with great respect and sympathy for words, extend condolences to the family of Barbosa de Melo and, of course, also to the PSD, through their parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u5	Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was with regret that yesterday we became aware of the death of Professor Antonio Moreira Barbosa de Melo. The essential thing about his personality is already the vote that has just been read. We have from Barbosa de Melo the image of an illustrious academic, a personality with a profound erudition, which, in fact, transmits in his parliamentary activity, and an illustrious personality of Portuguese democracy, as an elected Member of the Constituent Assembly, later as an elected Member in several legislatures and between 1991 and 1995 as President of the Assembly of the Republic, who unanimously held a position recognized by all parliamentary groups. We have always maintained a relationship of great cordiality and deep respect with Professor Barbosa de Melo. That is why with regret we became aware of this news and we want to address to your party, the PSD, of whom was a great reference, our condolences, as well as to your relatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u7	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was also with great regret that the CDS took knowledge of the death of Professor Barbosa de Melo. A bigger man, with a full life and a man who, as in other words, had the opportunity to see and hear, because of his rare professional qualities but also personal, was of the few men who, in politics, deserved such broad and clear consensus as we have just witnessed. Founder of the Social Democratic Party, I would also say, in a certain way, founder of our democracy, for his participation in the Electoral Law for the Constituent Assembly, a politician who viewed politics as a mission, as mere public service, even with detachment, an emeritus speaker and a brilliant academic. A distinguished teacher, a man from the academy, a man of culture, a man from civil society, a man who would like to get involved in civil society but with the discretion that only the really great ones can have and from whom, for that reason, we already have so much hunger. As President, he was also a man who defended this House, defended the need for closeness between electors and voters, the need for Parliament's defence, the need for all Members to have better working conditions in order to better carry out their duties. With this ability to involve and defend the institution of Parliament, it has grown the sympathy and admiration of all. To the family, friends and the Social Democratic Party, our sincere condolences.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u9	Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Antonio Barbosa de Melo was someone who had a vast intellectual, academic and political trajectory, and this vast trajectory has enriched us all. I would like to highlight, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, two traces, perhaps not the most important ones, so many were those who marked this man's life and his contribution to our country. First of all, Antonio Barbosa de Melo was one of the most prominent constituents, someone whom this Chamber particularly remembers as an eloquent Member and as an tireless fighter for the commitment it came to be present in the 1976 constitutional text. To a large extent, we owe it the model of complete democracy that our Constitution enshrines, that is, a political democracy, but also an economic, social and cultural democracy. In all these dimensions is present the indelible brand of António Barbosa de Melo. Secondly, I highlight the administrator. in fact, the great academic António Barbosa de Melo was a voice with an unusual authority in favor of an open administration, in favor of a friendly administration of the citizens, in favor of administrative decentralization, in favor of the proximity of the administration. A friendly administration of citizens and democracy, a democracy measured by decentralization—this thought also has the brand of António Barbosa de Melo. Allow me, Mr President, to join a personal note in very brief seconds. I had the great privilege of being able to deprive with Antonio Barbosa of Melo, in Coimbra, and I can and I want to testify that the man we paid today was someone who had the simplicity of the cults, the modesty of scholars, the humor of the tolerant. António Barbosa de Melo has no respect, António Barbosa de Melo has won our respect. And it is this respect that we now want to express here: respect for your life, respect for your example of surrender to the public cause, respect for your memory. And, with this respect, we express our condolences to your family and to the Democratic Social Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u11	Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to start by quoting Article 1. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic : « Portugal is a sovereign Republic, based on the dignity of the human person(...) ». This constitutional statement is from the authorship of the constituent Member Barbosa de Melo and alone traces the whole computer principle of Portuguese democracy, principle of the underlying principles of what came to be the acquisition of fundamental values, for which we have identified ourselves since 25 April 1974. The principle of greater relevance, both in the positivity of the Constitution and in the constitutional jurisprudence, which since then helped to constitute and structure the Portuguese democratic order. at the same time as Professor Barbosa de Melo revealed, as mentioned above, one of the most influential and decisive constituents, he also associated his name with the democratic legitimacy of the 1976 Constitution itself by actively cooperating in the elaboration of the legal diploma that regulated the first free elections in Portugal. Professor Barbosa de Melo was a party man, a social-democrat of the PPD / PSD, of which he was founder, but I believe you can rightly say that Professor Barbosa de Melo was, above all, a great democrat, in whom we can all see ourselves. Here, in Parliament, in its normal position as a Member or in its position as President of the Assembly of the Republic, his attitude was always the same: gentle, available, with a always welcoming smile, of fine treatment, with a fine irony and always ready to promote understanding, to the point of, as has already been said here, to deserve the respect, consideration and admiration of all parliamentarians and certainly of all those who, in the country, have followed our political life and our civic life over the years. It is, therefore, with particular sense of democratic pride that the PS bench is associated with the pain that is, of course, at this moment, that of the party that helped to establish and, therefore, we address our condolences to it, as well as to all its family, knowing that the name of Professor Barbosa de Melo, at the Faculty of Law of Coimbra, in the Assembly of the Republic, throughout the country, will always be remembered and invoked, for the glory of Portuguese democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u13	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by saying that sometimes others speak better than we do when they speak for us. That is what I have felt and that is what I am feeling in this Chamber when I hear the interventions before me, coming from all the parliamentary benches, from all the political forces which, by the strength of the vote, have obtained representation in this Parliament. It is therefore a great privilege for me and our bench to be able to thank all the speakers, for all the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic the evocative words they addressed to Professor António Barbosa de Melo. As has been said, this is a remarkable figure of our democracy, a large Portuguese, a giant Portuguese, a heritage of our Portugal. Someone who is associated with the birth of the democratic regime by its political intervention but also by its civic and academic intervention. Someone who conjugated a presence in all these possibilities of intervention, which marked, which he added, that he respected, and who, as has already been well mentioned and noticed from the interventions that preceded me, added to the ability to affirm his convictions, his ideas, often with much frontality, with a frontality that not all of them had, at times when these ideas needed to be stated, the ability to put themselves in the other's place, to realize what was the point of view he had before, to respect, to understand and to disagree. It is an example in its most varied passages of important positions that have already been described here as a constituent Member, as President of this PSD Parliamentary Group, as founder of the PSD and as one of its main programmatic guides, as a Member, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, as a teacher, as protagonist of the launch of very relevant institutions of society. In all these clothes, Professor Barbosa de Melo intervenes with a sense of respect, conviction and concern about what is of everyone, which is our society, which is what comes from the way we organize ourselves in our community. It was, in fact, an eminent jurist, a superior eloquence, but it was also someone who, in his concerns, never lost sight of the interest of his citizenship, the interest of the community, the interest of what he said is of us all. I would therefore like to conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, leaving a word here to the family of Professor Barbosa de Melo, with the sadness we carry at this moment, to say: thank you, Professor António Barbosa de Melo! We in the PSD have a great gratitude, an incomparable gratitude that will never end by what you have represented and will continue to represent for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u15	Mrs. Members, through the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, the Government would like to make it known that it is associated with the summons of Professor Barbosa de Melo. Let us then proceed to the vote on vote No 119 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of the former President of the Assembly of the Republic and Mr Honorary, Professor Doctor António Barbosa de Melo ( AR President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Before we begin today's agenda, I would ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 27 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the conduct of tests, medical examinations and other means appropriate to the workers of the Prison Guard Corps with a view to detecting excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages, drug use and psychotropic substances and similar products, which falls to 1. the Commission; motions for resolutions Nos 17 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part, signed in Luxembourg on 10 June 2013, which falls to 2. the Commission, 18 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Approves the Paris Agreement, within the framework of the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change, adopted in Paris, on 12 December 2015 which falls to 2. the Commission, and 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, signed in Tegucigalpa on 29 June 2012, which falls to 2. the Commission ; drafts of lein. 291 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in the security forces and services ( PCP ), which are lower than 1. the Commission, 292 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Creates the status of low-density territories ( PSD ), which fall to 11. the Commission, 293 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the VAT Code with a view to exempting the provision of services carried out in the field of non-conventional therapy ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 294 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Changes in territorial boundaries between the Gove parish and the Union of the Fregueses of Ancede and Ribadouro in the municipality of Baião ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; and Parliamentary assessments Nos 16 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 35 / 2016 of 29 June amending the tasks and responsibilities of the Institute for Social Action of the Armed Forces, IP, eliminating the possibility of this Institute granting loans to its beneficiaries, as well as the composition of the board of directors, making the first amendment to Decree-Law No 193 / 2012 of 23 August, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 183 / 2014 of 29 December ( PCP ), 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, which amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March ( PSD ), 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July which amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March 2007 as amended by Law No 64 -A / 2008 of 31 December 2008 and Decree-Law No 8 / 2012 of 18 January ( CDS-PP ), 19 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August — in the use of the legislative authorisation granted by Article 131. Article 140 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) o and by Articles 148. a 150. o, 156. o, 166. o is 169. the Law No. 7 -A / 2016, of 30 March, amends the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons, the Tax Code on Added Value, the VAT regime on intra-Community transactions, the Decree-Law No. 185 / 86 of 14 July, the Seal Tax Code, the Municipal Property Tax Code and the Single Circulation Tax Code ( PSD ) and 20 / XIII of 14 July ( 1 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August, which, in the use of the legislative authorisation granted by Article 131. Article 140 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) o and by Articles 148. a 150. o, 156. o, 166. o is 169. the Law No. 7 -A / 2016, of 30 March, amends the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons, the Tax Code on Added Value, the VAT regime on intra-Community transactions, the Decree-Law No. 185 / 86 of 14 July, the Code on Seal Tax, the Code on Municipal Property Tax and the Single Circulation Tax Code ( CDS-PP ). Mr President, with your permission, Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão will continue to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u17	Please proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have also entered the Bureau and were admitted, draft resolutions 449 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the urgent retraining of the Alexandre Herculano High School in Porto ( PCP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 450 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the valuation and regulation of older universities ( PSD ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 451 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of extraordinary support measures as a result of the severe weather in the Vila Real ( PSD ) district, which falls to 7. the Commission, 452 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Valuation of forest slag teams ( BE ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 453 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen measures to eliminate viral hepatitis ( PS ) which fall to 9. the Commission, 454 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government complete the unfinished link between IC6, from Table to Oliveira do Hospital ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 455 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( AR President ), 456 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 64 / 2012, and notwithstanding the adoption of regional measures, be implemented in relation to the Autonomous Region of Madeira measures identical to those adopted in 2012 ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 457 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government of the Republic implement a pilot project on the use of air resources for fire control in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 458 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Bulgaria ( President of the HR ), 459 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Switzerland ( President of the HR ), 460 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of priorities for the reform of the new judicial map ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 461 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Standing Committee ( Chairman of the HR ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u19	We shall come to the second item on our agenda, which is from the vote on the Standing Committee regulation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now move on to the third point of our agenda, which includes the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of Decree No 31/ XIII, which is the first amendment to the Statute of the Public Transport Society of Porto, S.A. , approved in annex to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July, and to the eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 394 -A / 98 of 15 December, amending the bases for the concession of the light metro system of the port and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA. The message is as follows: « His Excellency Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic : I am addressing you. Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic concerning Decree No 31 / XIII, which approved an amendment to the Statute of the Public Transport Society of Porto, SA ( STCP, SA ), with a view to banning the transmission or sub-concession of the service to entities other than public law or exclusively public capital, and also amending the bases for granting the Port Light Metro System and the Port Metro Statute, SA, with a view to preventing the transmission of social shares of its social capital to entities other than public law or public capital. 1 — In principle, in a state of democratic law, the legislator must, in honor of the logic of the separation of powers, not resorting in a case-by-case manner to specific decisions of the Public Administration, which must meet the economic, financial and social reasons of a changing nature. And in which she is in better condition to judge, until she finds herself closer to the problems to solve. Even if this undesirable legislative intervention may not be described as unconstitutional — and therefore not give rise to appropriate supervision — it can be politically counterproductive, and therefore excessive and censorable. 2 — What is said is even more true if anyone who must have a word of weight in the decision is the local authority, by the express will of the Government, which is the same as the Administration State. 3 — The Government in office has in its Programme established the principle that collective transport in the urban areas of Porto and Lisbon should be managed with the intervention of their local authorities. In particular with regard to the urban area of Porto, successive declarations by government members remained open, as a possible option scenario, the participation of private entities in the sector under consideration. This same purpose of not limiting the freedom of choice of the state and local authorities was reiterated by the Minister of the Environment, at the celebration of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Metropolitan Area of Porto: “Our goal has always been the same, to serve the passenger with quality, and it should be that which unites us. by delegating the role of transport authority in the Metropolitan Area of Porto, the State creates a unique opportunity for market organization, whether it is operated by public undertakings or private enterprises; there is room for everyone and the population needs everyone.” 4 — This Decree imposes on the Government and local authorities a regime prohibiting transmission or sub-concession in the Port Transport Society, S.A. , entities other than public law or solely public capital, as well as the transmission of shareholdings of the Port Metro, SA to entities other than public law or public capital. 5 — The scheme under consideration, in taxing any participation of private entities, represents an excessively politically excessive intervention by the Assembly of the Republic in a specific area of decision-making of the Public Administration — in particular the local authority —, imposing, in a drastic way, the future option of the Government, in terms not consistent with the purpose set out by it, and, above all, the choice of local authorities, which the Government has undertaken to respect in the area in question. In other words, it is politically excessive and contradictory to the objectives assumed in the framework of governance in office. I therefore believe that the Assembly of the Republic must have the opportunity to reconsider this matter. I therefore return without promulgation Decree No 31 / XIII of the Assembly of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ” As usual, a debate period is open by the parliamentary groups, for which they have two minutes each. The Bureau is waiting for your registration. [[Pause.]] There is no requirement for interventions. however, I think it is a matter of sufficient importance to deserve some interventions. [[Pause.]] We have a first inscription from the Left Block. Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The appreciation that the Left Block makes of this presidential veto is that it is sick of an excessive volunteerism in the political reading of the Decree which was approved by the Assembly of the Republic. This excessive volunteerism is well reflected in the fact that Mr. President of the Republic, deliberately or not, invoke the possibility of the participation of local authorities in the management and corporate organisation of public transport undertakings, which the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic allows precisely to facilitate. We understand that companies that were public and organized public transport must continue to be public and organise the public transport service. What the previous Government sought to do was open the process of privatization of these public transport undertakings, through the sub-concession figure, in the case of the STCP, and through the possibility of alienation of social shares from the capital of the Port Metro to third entities, which is the same as to private entities. from this point of view, what the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic does is to restore things in previous terms, i.e. to oppose the possibility of repetition of the sub-concession process to privates, which the previous government has sought to implement, and, on the other hand, to check the possibility of transmission of social participations - read actions — to entities other than public law or to entities other than public capitals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u21	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u22	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: This assessment made by Mr President of the Republic has, above all, the same scope that we give to this Decree which is under consideration. In other words, the introduction of this Decree to this House was intended primarily to correct an excessive intervention by the previous Government on this matter, taking into account, in particular, the local authority. Worse : it was as excessive as definitive, because the alienation of the capital of STCP and Metro do Porto would correspond to a future impossibility of the municipalities in this metropolitan area have any capacity to intervene in this matter. That is why an intervention made by the previous Government, in a hurry, on the eve of the elections, needed to be corrected, and it is also in the spirit of the concern that Mr President of the Republic has shown in this assessment that we in the PS are available to rebuild what has been presented in this House, because our respect for the position of the President of the Republic is equal to what we have in our own word, since this proposal consisted of all our programmes, including the electoral programme. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the phrase is not new: for the Socialist Party, «the word given is an honest word» and therefore we will be here again to appreciate this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u23	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the devolution, without promulgation, of this Decree is, in fact, a moment of common sense in the functioning of the Public Administration, which contrasts particularly with the populism and the true ideological fanaticism with which the question of transport has been treated in Portugal in recent months,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u26	... being that the wave of real freight that the PS has made to the PCP and the Left Block in this sector, to stay in power, in fact, translates into an increase in costs for the public record and a decrease in services provided to users. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u27	This is particularly visible in the case of STCP and Metro. And I explain why. First example: STCP, Collective Transportation of Port. The contract envisaged would save EUR 100 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u28	That's not how it is! Saving? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u29	What is currently in effect lies out of the window outside that savings. Who pays the bill? A contributor is a user! I give a second example, which is truly shocking, because it shows this wave of reversals reaching proportions that are truly surreal. What happened in the Port Metro was the reversal of a sub-concession of a private one, to another private one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u31	In other words, the Port Metro has, and has always had, the sub-concessioned operation to private people, and you know that. In fact, the PS proposed this, it's an idea of its authorship. Therefore, to serve the PCP and the Left Block that — surprisingly, and knows why there God! — they understand that this makes sense, what was done in the Port Metro is a reversal of a sub-concession from one private to another private.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u32	There's something strange here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u33	In other words, the government, between two private companies - no matter what it charges more or what it charges less, no matter what it costs more or what it costs less, whether it provides better service or what it provides worse service - selects the one it is first and throws out the one it comes after. I find it extraordinary that you parties, especially as the Left Block, which sees conspiracy theories everywhere, find that this business is transparent and serves transparency, users or the public record. It's really a shame! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u34	by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u35	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: It was in fact with perplexity that we became aware of this veto and of the message accompanying it. We are before a political decision by Mr President of the Republic. In fact, it makes it clear that this is not a constitutional problem and therefore it is a political option that the President of the Republic has decided to take. And it invokes two questions: one is the intrusion of the Assembly of the Republic into the political sphere and the other is the autonomy of the local power. However, this latter idea is based on the simple reason that it is not at issue, because there is nothing in the Constitution that imposes the autonomous management of the transport system, and if such management is to take place by decision of the Government or of the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, we are not in the presence of any constitutional value. As regards the introduction of the Assembly of the Republic into the governmental sphere, it is appropriate to say that the President of the Republic feels by the Government the pains the Government does not have, because clearly this Decree of the Assembly of the Republic was passed by a majority in Parliament, a majority that has integrated precisely the party of the Government, which believes that the public transport of the port should not be the subject of private ownership and should not be a safeguard of taxpayers'money for the benefit of the private sector, as they wanted the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u36	Exactly! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u37	Therefore, Mr. President of the Republic comes to veto this Decree of the Assembly of the Republic, and it is appropriate to say that we are a bit like that old sculptor's story that was asking to help the old lady cross the street, except that the old girl didn't want to cross! in this case, if someone misses the principle of the separation of powers is not the Assembly of the Republic, but the President of the Republic, who, invoking what he considers should be the options of the Government, has vetoed a diploma of the Assembly of the Republic, which had precisely the favourable vote of the party of the Government. For us, Mr. President, Mr. Members, the question is very clear: public transport must serve the public, must serve users, populations and should not serve as a safeguard for the money of the people and taxpayers to benefit from the interests of private companies who want to profit from the exploitation of these public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u38	What about the Barraqueiro Group?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u39	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u40	So, Mr President, our availability and intention is to confirm this Decree which the Assembly of the Republic has approved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u41	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group, as indeed it had the opportunity to express in the debate, in the speciality of this diploma, fully understands and endorses the reasons put forward by the President of the Republic. Firstly, as mentioned above, it is clearly a politically counterproductive, excessive and censorable intervention in public administration and management. In fact, this is not the only example, there are other examples in which Parliament believes that it must replace the Government and the Public Administration in the exercise of sovereignty by mixing a set of functions which do not belong to it. Secondly, there is clearly an ideological prejudice against private initiative, against entrepreneurs and against investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u43	Entrepreneurs? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u44	Finally, there is an unacceptable intrusion, a conditioning of the autonomy of the local power. We understand very well the reasons for the Left Block and the Communist Party. By the way, VV. Ex.as continues to nurture this ambition to permanently end everything that is private and nationalize, starting with exactly what is most at hand. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] We have no problem with understanding your ambition and your goal; what we do not understand are the reasons of the Socialist Party, who approved the granting of the Port Metro to private people, when he was in government, and who now in Parliament votes against the granting of public service to private people. The Socialist Party which, in the Government, renegotiated the contract of exploitation in the Port Metro with the Barriqueiro, probably to accommodate other businesses and other interests, in Parliament votes against the granting of public services to the private sector. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] Finally, the Socialist Party, which is preparing a new contract for the granting of the Port Metro in the Government, is against the granting of public services to the private sector. Of course, the country needs no more laws to control and end this astigmatism against the private initiative, to prevent private investors. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u45	Astigmatism? Oh, my God! What you have is myopia!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u46	VV. Ex., in Parliament and in government, they have done this with irreprehensible effectiveness. The country needs, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a little bit of ethics to end this lack of coherence, this hypocrisy and this cynicism with which VV. They're detaching the country and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u47	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u48	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u49	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau. I wanted to ask for a document to be distributed, the Port Authority No. 358 -A / 2015, of 5 June, therefore the authorship of the previous Government, which provided for the delivery of several hundred million euros of the taxpayers to the sub-concessionaries of the transports of the Port, in this case of the Port Metro, to be delivered, contrary to what was stated by Mrs Cecilia Meireles. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u50	Great public institution the society Baraqueiro!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u51	The Bureau will distribute the Portaria, so it is not worth developing the matter of what will be distributed now. Having concluded this point on our agenda, we will move to the following point, which is contained in the debate requested by the CDS-PP, on the agreement between the Government and the European institutions on the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u52	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u53	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u54	Mr President, it is about the conduct of the work, and it has to do with this. It will be recalled that yesterday at the Leaders' Conference the Government, through the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, said that it would be important for this to be the first item on our agenda today, because of the need of the Minister and the Secretary of State to start a meeting of the Ecofin. I believe that we are all convinced — especially in the light of the importance of the subject, which has to do with a Portuguese bank and an international agreement — that the Minister and the Secretary of State should discuss it in Parliament in the afternoon. So we all agreed, contrary to what is usual...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u55	Sir, I ask you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u56	It is to be contextualized, Mr. President. It is only a point of order but, as you see, it is about the conduct of the work. Therefore, contrary to what is normal and customary, we all agreed that we should not start the agenda by political declarations but by the debate on the General Deposit Box, to allow Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State to be present here. There is only Mr. Secretary of State and I confess, Mr. President, that I am surprised at this. from the CDS, we think it is a disrespect to the Assembly of the Republic not to be present here Mr. Minister of Finance to discuss the General Deposit Box, knowing until he is here, is available and is just waiting for Mr. Secretary of State to go to the Ecofin meeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u57	Mr President, I would like to speak for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u58	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with all due respect, if Mr Nuno Magalhães remained convinced that he should be the Minister to be present in the debate, he was wrong in his conviction. That is not what I conveyed at the Conference of Leaders, nor is that what Mr and the Parliamentary Group of the CDS asked for in the request addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, which was the presence of the Government. Now, Mr Nuno Magalhães, as you know, the Government is made up of a prime minister, several ministers and even more State Secretaries. There are no smaller figures in the government. I myself am Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and I am here with you many times, and the government has decided that whoever would represent you...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u60	I ask you to synthesize, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u61	... would be the Secretary of State for Treasury and Finance. The honourable Member has many opportunities to confront Mr Minister, but who decides, who speaks for the government is the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u62	I think the positions have been expressed. Indeed, both are true. It was requested by the Secretary of State that this should be the first point to be debated, because Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State had to leave early, but it was never said who would be present, if Mr. Minister, if Mr. Secretary of State. Therefore, the deduction can be taken away, but it is also a fact that this has never been said. I was just asking you not to excessively prolong this incident.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u63	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u64	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u65	Mr President, very telegraphically, just to make it clear, I would like to say that we support the interpretation here by Mr Nuno Magalhães and tell the Secretary of State that it is true, that it is the government that chooses who speaks on his behalf and that it is also the government that chooses who does not speak, because there will be some reason for it, on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u66	We can then move on to substantial interventions on this subject. First of all, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, and I would like to say very much, but frankly, I understand that those who have come to the government promising an economic growth of 2, 4 % and now has 0, 9 % to present, do not want much to appear here. I had an obligation to do it, but I understand I have some shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u69	If I were him, I wouldn't come either!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u70	Let's go to the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u71	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the CDS, the General Deposit Box is a reference public institution and therefore it is essential that the true wave of rumors and speculations generated in the newspapers end. The government's performance in connection with the General Deposit Box can be characterized in three words: tangled, irresponsibility and concealment. In the process and in the way they tried to put in a new manager's "street" and increase their salary, at the same time as the key issues of the Box were speculative in the newspapers. Irresponsibility, the degree of alarm that was generated and the drag of the situation for months on end. Hiding, both the management of the present and the business of the past. And this concealment yesterday reached a threshold that I would say almost maximum, at the time that up to a committee of inquiry this majority tried to prevent the hearing of the President of the General Deposit Box, which will only be done because the CDS exercised its power right.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u72	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u73	It is that defending the General Deposit Box, its public character, its prestige and its robustness is to know what is going on there; hiding and not knowing does not defend the Deposit Box, on the contrary, attacks the General Deposit Box, and that is what has to stop. So, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you two very brief questions — there are many, many, but I will ask you the two fundamental questions and they cannot fail to be answered today. First of all, we have maximum values for this capitalisation. We want to know exactly how much this capitalisation will cost, not in maximum values, but in real values, and now, if you know how much these super-managers will win, and if this value of capitalisation, which has already been told to us that it would not go to the deficit, it will go to debt. There is something I would like you to make clear, because I have heard a lot about how this value is accounted for. Money does not fall from heaven, therefore, in some way or another, in the present or in the future, in taxes or interest, the Portuguese will pay this money. Therefore, it is essential to understand where and how it will be applied.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u74	What about the BANIF? What about BES? Did it fall from the sky? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u75	Secondly, regarding restructuring, I ask: how many workers will be dispensed and how many counters will be closed? It has been announced that EUR 700 million will be affected for this purpose. In view of the fact that the Labour Code provides for a maximum compensation of 240 times the minimum wage for each worker, Mr Secretary of State, with these EUR 700 million of two, one : or what is planned is actually the dismissal of more than 5000 workers or is the payment of compensation that is more than double the statutory maximum. Which one? [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u76	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We have not yet heard the PSD Parliamentary Group talk about this matter, but I shall anticipate its statements. I would like to say that we have followed up in recent months — if I do not hear the news about what you have been doing — the fact that you have the hidden desire and a hidden or hidden wish that the Portuguese Government misses a battle with Brussels. That is what you have been building in recent times. You have the hidden desire that the Portuguese Government lose a battle with Brussels. Every time there has to be a negotiation with Brussels or there has to be a confrontation with Brussels, you rub your hands and start creating catastrophic situations and scenarios for Portugal and for Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u78	That's what we've seen in recent times. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the level of dramatization of this situation has reached almost random times, because in recent times we have heard the President of the PSD announce that « in September the devil arrived». The situation has come almost to a limit of dramatization and, say it in favour of the truth, of despair, because you announce catastrophes, announce absolutely terrible situations for Portugal and they never happen. Those predictions never happen. My dear comrades... [[CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] ...and dear fellows, what's happening here is really abnormal, and this wasn't the only time it happened. They also made this speech in the discussion of the State budget. in the State budget they also announced catastrophes and announced that things would go wrong, but they did not go wrong, and you had to swallow that toad. On the subject of sanctions, they did the same thing again, they anticipated disasters, they again predicted that the European Union would penalise Portugal and the Portuguese, and that did not happen. This position of the PSD and CDS of recent times is truly dramatic. First of all, I leave a challenge to the PSD and the CDS : they accept in a relatively calm manner that this solution that the Portuguese Government has found was a victory for Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u79	Explain there how a victory is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u80	... it was a victory for the Portuguese and it was a victory that came to bring what seems truly important to me, which is to make the General Deposit Box robust and ensure that it remains as a public bank and not as a private bank, which was what you wanted when you did the cash capitalization in 2012. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u81	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We have now heard the CDS say that it defends a public and strong Box, the same CDS that was in a government half with the PSD, which wanted a private Box. This would be a very interesting debate! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Members of the CDS, it is also funny that they now have this whole concern about information on the financial system when they have been hiding all the problems of the financial system for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u84	Four years have been hiding the problems of BANIF, the problems of BES, the problems of the worsening accounts of BPN and the costs that still fall on the Portuguese. They have also been hiding the problems of the Box for four years, and worsening the problems of it with a failed recapitalisation without moving a straw to realize a restructuring that would bring the Box up to the present challenges. So this also contrasts with your position of being scandalized with a supposed concealment. I do not remember the Box at any time having been so polled in Parliament, even considering that the PSD and the CDS imposed up to a Commission of Inquiry. All that is not precisely hidden from the problems of the Box, contrary to what occurred during the mandate of the previous Government. I leave a note on the hypocrisy of the position of the CDS regarding the expenditure on public resources in the financial system. We have not heard the CDS, moreover, nor the PSD, at the time of public recapitalisations, of public capital loans to recapitalize banks, to save banks like BES, and even in the amending budget, to save BANIF. We did not hear these concerns about the use of public money to satisfy or fill holes that had been left by assaults carried out in the bank by their own shareholders. Now that it is about recapitalizing a public bank, fulfilling an obligation of the shareholder who is the State, the CDS is scandalized because there will be a spending, it will spend public money, curiously, supporting a bank that has to be and must be supported with these resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u85	What about the layoffs?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u86	from the PCP side, I still use to say that the problem is not recapitalization, it is to know what is accompanying this recapitalization. If more capital is needed for the Box, we also need to have a stronger box, more present in the territory, more solid, more able to respond to the needs of the population and to stabilize the financial system. More capital in the Box to ensure that it contracts, closes counters and fires people to guarantee more business to other banks is a way to finance other banks indirectly. And it is to combat this that the CFP will work, and that is what needs to be prevented right now. More capital, more Box in Portugal. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u87	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers. We're in a situation just now. I have not yet spoken to the Government, neither the PSD Parliamentary Group, nor the Left Block, and I do not know whether the Greens intend to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u88	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u89	In the meantime, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares was registered for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to say very quickly that the PSD has, in a timely manner, presented a question to the Government with a set of questions waiting for answers on the General Deposit Box. The Government has already been asked here today with another set of questions, so the PSD is waiting for its answers to be able, then, to intervene in this debate. I hope the government will sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u91	After this short speech by Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u92	Mr President, I'm always doing this after.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u93	Exactly. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I confess that I was surprised when I heard the CDS deliver defense words of the public character of the General Deposit Box and its prestige, when, in fact, the CDS and, say in good rigour, also the PSD have only contributed to the degradation of the public bank and to the contempt of this bank. And soon, until we were at risk of hearing the CDS say that no previous government member ever put the hypothesis of privatizing the General Deposit Box. [[CDS-PP protests.]] So perhaps, then we have to confront the honourable Member with some public statements, which are in the press and which we have already invoked so many times in the Portuguese Parliament on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u95	Bring, bring those statements!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u96	You don't even have to make a whole statement, half of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u97	On the other hand, it is also very curious that the CDS and the PSD always considered it very well to use the exorbitant amount of money that was injected—and was injected by you! — in private banks and always find a scandal any capitalisation that is made to a public bank. I mean, it's a logic that is not understood, but it's understood by the ideological component of these parties. The public bank is not something that, strictly speaking, they want to defend. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding this process of capitalisation or recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box, we also believe that the State, as an shareholder, has a very different obligation than the one it has with respect to private banks. Therefore, there are processes that cannot be confused with this. It's good that this is clear, though, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, some parties try to confuse everything. I am now addressing the Secretary of State to say that, with regard to this process of capitalisation, there are things that need to be clarified. What is the future of the General Deposit Box? They want a General Deposit Box, a strong public bank for what? Mr Secretary of State, we consider it essential to say that more capital can certainly accommodate more credit to the economy. Can you or can't you? Is that also why the General Deposit Box will serve or not? Is it to strengthen our economy and, fundamentally, our small economy? Then there is the other side: the risk factors that banks always find for credit and, in good rigour, the General Deposit Box has also done this, which is to find a risk factor within our country. But if we adopt as a political objective the fight against regional asymmetries and the revitalization of the interior of our country, the public bank must also have that responsibility, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u99	And investing in the small economy and economy within the country is something that the General Deposit Box cannot forget. This is the message I'd like to leave here. Finally, Mr President, there is a question that I would like the Secretary of State to answer, which has already been put here by the Greens in the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. We have got an answer and now I want to know whether the answer from the Secretary of State is the same. Will there be redundancies in the General Deposit Box?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The most important thing, when the Left Block thinks about this is that Portugal has a public bank that serves the economy, serves investment, serves economic growth and that this public bank is solid, guarantees financial stability of the system and guarantees stability of the other banks, also private banks. To that end, we must agree that this public bank must be sufficiently capitalised. This public bank must have capital, just as the private have already needed capital. That is why the Left Block does not, in principle, oppose the State, which is the sole shareholder of the public bank, using public money to capitalise on a bank that is public. And this is a coherent position, in principle. It is quite different to defend that a State uses the resources to invest in a private bank that was led to bankruptcy by private shareholders. And that is why the Block voted against the amending budget that involved the injection of public money into BANIF, and the PSD, for example, made this amending budget viable. That is also why the Block voted against when injecting public money into the BES, money that was injected by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u102	It was for the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u103	The right-wing position is not understood in this debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You don’t understand how the right says you want to defend the stability of the Box but everything does to increase the round of rumors, to increase the trickling, to increase the confusion over the Box, to create a blanket of instability, to take advantage of all opportunities to create instability in the Box. It is not understood whether PSD and CDS are for or against capitalisation because we do not know whether they are for or against the Public Box. The CDS seems to have a consistent position in time—either a Public Box—and the PSD was still defending the privatisation of the Box. It was good for them to clarify that position. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Once again, we do not understand the position of the PSD regarding the recapitalization values. If you're so sure the value is too much, it's because you knew, more or less, how much you needed to put. If you knew how much you had to put, why didn't you do it and let Caixa drag a situation, when you knew perfectly well that you needed a recapitalisation? Oh, my God! The position is not consistent in values, it is not consistent in comparison with the private system, and, as it is not consistent, we like to know what the position of the PSD in this debate is. But let's go back to the question of recapitalisation. Yes, recapitalization is important, but let's see how and for what. The first requirement, to the question 'how', is that of transparency. What is the form of recapitalization? What justifies recapitalization? What inequalities justify recapitalization? What naturally results from the deterioration of the market, the degradation of economic activity, the fruit of austerity, and what results from poor management that must be achieved? Requirement is required in the restructuring of the Box. We cannot admit an excessive accumulation of duties in the Administration. The Left Block has already said all the demand we want in the Box, for the future. What credit policy will the Box have? Are we going to have a box that mimics the private sector, that invests, once again, in housing, in speculation? Or are we going to have a box that serves the public purpose, that serves industrial policies, that serves to support small businesses and productive sectors, that serves to enable the country to develop and finally have a policy of investment and economic growth? What geographic network do we want for the Box? Do we want the Box once again as a private bank, which has four delegations on the same street but which then does not reach the most isolated populations in the interior that depend on it? Are we gonna bet on mimicking the private? We want a box that reaches the whole country and a box that doesn't fire employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u104	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u105	The Box can't — it can't! — to be the target of the same inhuman and inhuman processes as the workers of the New Bank, which were targeted by Banif workers, all victims of restructuring processes, as happened to BPN. Therefore, the last requirement of the Left Block is that there are no layoffs in the General Deposit Box. I think this is a point where we can all agree. The Box cannot have redundancies, workers cannot be the main victims of this restructuring process of the General Deposit Box. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u106	For a second intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not want to use the figure of interpellation, since I still have time, I like the CDS, not without saying that it is very boring when you try to make you forget what they said and what they took, making you think that they are now something completely different. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, on news from the Newspaper, read the following : « Steps do not exclude privatization of the General Deposit Box », and Passos was Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho. Therefore, you have put the hypothesis of privatization of the General Deposit Box. Now come say it's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u108	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u109	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u110	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u111	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u112	Mr President, I would like to know whether the Bureau, through you, may inform Mrs Heloísa Apollonia that Dr Pedro Passos Coelho is neither the president of the CDS, nor is he even the CDS. The lie isn't worth everything, Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia! Arguments, yes; lie, no! [[Green Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u113	Mr Nuno Magalhães, it seems to me that the Bureau does not need to make this clear. [[CDS-PP Protests and Green Protests.]] Before giving the floor to Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance, I would ask Mr. Members who make less noise so that the Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance may intervene. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : the last time I went to this House, in a debate scheduled by the Portuguese Communist Party on the public control of the bank and the financial system, I defended the importance of the General Deposit Box as a pillar of the financial system. at that time, it was clear about the role played by the General Deposit Box during the period of deep recession that marked the passage of the PSD by the government. in this period, Caixa was the bank of the savings of many Portuguese and prevented it from attending a leak of deposits. But such a deep recession left marks in the financial system, both larger brands as well as the problems of the financial system, which were masked by the former Executive with the complacency of the supervisor and international institutions. The recession, which led to the failure of many companies and an explosion of unemployment, led to an increase in non-compliance and the accumulation of bad credit. This problem was particularly severe in Box, exposing a poor credit risk assessment in the past. in this context, the maintenance of confidence in the General Deposit Box implies a turn of page, implies a plan that allows the Box to ensure adequate coverage of the inequalities, guide the granting of credit for the best business projects, create value for the shareholder and be self-sustainable, as it was in the past. It was for this purpose that, last April, the Government addressed Dr. António Domingues with the challenge of leading a project. Since then, intense collaboration and sharing of ideas have developed. Thus, the project we present to the Box brings the real economy into the General Deposit Box ; allows the shareholder to invest without being considered State aid, avoiding the loss of value to those who entrusted the Box with their savings; ensures effective control of credit decisions and full compliance with the shareholder's guidelines as regards the mission of the Box in a more demanding model of governance; introduces a system of incentives that promotes the merit and excellence of workers, as well as the new administration. The business plan we prepared was presented to the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the Banco de Portugal in June. Since then, the plan has not changed. The discussion had only one interlocutor, the European Commission, and one end, to ensure that State investment would be made as if it were made by a private investor under the same conditions as the State. It was not an easy discussion—it is well known the rigour of the Directorate-General for Competition—but it was possible in four months to present a business plan that was accepted at first and proved to be compatible with market rules. Yes, it is possible to submit business plans to the Directorate-General for Competition that are accepted at first and that are not rejected at least half a dozen times after so many other shipments. The plan we presented is demanding. It is a demanding plan for the new administration, for the workers and for the shareholders—yes, for the shareholders! — and the shareholders of the Box are the Portuguese taxpayers. contrary to what the former Government defended, the Box with the Socialist Party will maintain a public 100 % in the framework of the new agreement and the restructuring to be made. The plan requires a strong leadership from the new administration to ensure a rapid transformation of the Box. The new administration must lead the change and implement new risk assessment and internal control policies to ensure rigorous management, but it is also up to the new administration to conquer workers for a culture oriented towards excellence, which will require workers a strong ability to adapt to change. What we advocate for the Box at restructuring level, and contrary to what has already been said in the wrong way, is not a lay-off plan — a lay-off plan has tried to make the previous government in the Public Administration and, fortunately, it has not succeeded — is a termination plan by mutual agreement and early reform plans that allow the size of the Box to be adjusted today from the credit market in Portugal. But the plan is demanding for the shareholders, for the Portuguese that are the shareholders of the Box. The Box has millions of shareholders. The real shareholders of Caixa, the Portuguese taxpayers, are that through their work they will invest in the Box up to EUR 2700 million. It is before these Portuguese that the government, as its representative, and the new administration undertake to implement a business plan that will return to shareholders in the future more than what they will now invest. But the Box will also create value for Portuguese entrepreneurs. The capital increase will allow the Fund to focus on lending to business projects with prospects for sustainable return and to be long-term job creators. The capital increase will also adequately cover the inequalities, leaving room for the Bank to negotiate revitalization plans with companies that, having viable projects and a secured order portfolio, face situations of non-compliance due to problems in the financial system focusing on liquidity management and on investment, thus preserving value and jobs. It was this public bank project that I came here to defend, on behalf of the Government, at the end of April. Four months back, I'm here to tell you that the first step is taken. It is possible for a sovereign State to invest in a public bank and maintain ownership control at 100 % without being considered State aid. The agreement we have reached with the European Commission is indeed unprecedented. This agreement reflects a relationship between a Member State, the European Commission and the principles of market operation which many considered impossible. With regard to the new governance model, I want to tell you that the essential of the proposed model was approved by the supervisor. It is a model in which the Executive Board is accompanied by a set of specialized commissions, consisting of a majority of non-executive administrators, according to best practices identified by international institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u115	You've outlived your time, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u116	I'm done now, Mr. President. This model consists of a system of brakes and counterweights which ensures more effective control over the Executive Board, but this control is not done without us. This means that the box has a sufficient number of administrators and that it is in everything similar to the other banks of the system which have a smaller size. The Box will also have a model for fixing remuneration in accordance with best practice. The remuneration shall be fixed by an independent board, which shall receive from the shareholder a remuneration policy to be adopted, setting them in view of the performance of the administration. The Government has already given instructions to the Compensation Commission to position the remuneration of the Box in line with the practices of the banking and financial sector in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u117	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u118	The remuneration fixing process shall, on average, ensure lower remuneration than would result from the application to the current administration of the rules contained in the Statute of the Public Manager. Finally, the State will inject up to EUR 2700 million of net funds and will not alter the public debt emission plan itself. The Agency for the Management of Treasury and Public Debt - IGCP, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, will define the sources of funding. The Government and the IGCP have maintained contacts with financial rating agencies and investors who view this operation as very positive in promoting financial stability.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u119	You really have to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u120	I conclude immediately, Mr President. Finally, I wanted to tell you that this is not an isolated measure. The efficient functioning of the financial system is a competitive factor for the economy and any economy can only compete internationally with a robust financial system that enables people to generate wealth, create jobs and improve the quality of life of their citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u121	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I now understand why the Minister for Finance did not come to Parliament today. That is to say what Mr. Secretary of State has said Mr. Minister of Finance, and that is the equivalent of zero. We believed that in this debate, which is the first held in plenary, in the Standing Committee, in the Assembly of the Republic, after another summer filled with news about the General Deposit Box, the Government took this opportunity that the House and the parties gave it to explain the recapitalisation process, the business plan of the General Deposit Box. But the truth, Mr President, is that what Mr. Secretary of State here has done—and I apologize a lot, Mr. Secretary of State, for going directly and frankly—was equal to zero. Mr. Minister of Finance had the opportunity, in the Committee of Inquiry which is taking place in the Assembly of the Republic, to say that he did not know what the real capitalisation needs of the General Deposit Box were. In order to be more rigorous, the Minister for Finance, in the middle of July, said to the Committee on Inquiry — and to the honourable Members. Members who are here will - they will remember - be - that the capitalization needs of the General Deposit Box would be determined by the new Administration of the Box after an audit has been carried out. The Minister of Finance has lied to the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u123	One more time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u124	He lied in the Committee of Inquiry because at the same time he did not know what the real capitalisation needs of the Box were and that they were to be found in an audit requested by the new administration, the Minister of Finance was negotiating a capitalisation value of the General Deposit Box in Brussels. We don't know if it's too much, we don't know whether it's too little, nor does the Minister of Finance know, because he said who was to prove the value was an external audit promoted by the new administration of the General Deposit Box. On this point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there has been no progress, but the government is now presenting itself to Parliament and to the country as if it had achieved a great victory. At least this government position is being pushed down. Otherwise: we had the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to defend with all their strengths and arguments, I would say only politicians, that the General Deposit Box, to be strong, so that there would be effective control of their management, so that they could continue their mission, had to have a number — which I wish to list — of non-executive administrators. Now when Brussels said « take half a dozen administrators because it is not admissible », the government came here, all over the world, saying « we had a great victory in Brussels and what we wanted happened to the first one ». Mr. Secretary of State, have you been wrong about the country? Oh, my God! Did you not present to Brussels the need to have 19 administrators in the General Deposit Box? You have invited and discouraged administrators! And you feel comfortable by some of the Mr. Do administrators who have invited you still have to take courses in a hurry to be able to manage the General Deposit Box? I'd say, if this is a victory, it's just a win of Pirro. And, Mr Secretary of State, let me tell you that it should be embarrassing for the government. It is that over the past few months we have seen in the public square what the PSD has often said, to a kind of manual how the financial system should not be managed. I would even like to tell you, Mr Secretary of State, that if there were a financial system political management compendium, you would write a golden page whose title would be "to do everything contrary to what we are doing". In fact, you have broken trust in the General Deposit Box, created alarm, created panic, talked about holes that did not exist, talked about capitalization values that are ultimately far from true because, once again, in the words of the Minister of Finance, he still does not know how much the General Deposit Box needs. Mr Secretary of State, I repeat: in order to present negotiations with Brussels as a victory to the country, it is indeed necessary to have a great deal to say this with the will he has done in the rostrum. But, Mr Secretary of State, since you have not answered the questions we have asked you, there are still many open questions. You haven't said how many people think the General Deposit Box has the most. The PCP, really, on this matter did not say anything, the Left Block still bloomed and said there were no layoffs. But the PCP, transfigured in these vestments of power, no longer talks about dismissals and, if you have to talk, will say, in a very euphemistic way, that they are not dismissals, are friendly terminations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u125	They're accords!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u126	They're agreements with the workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u127	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u128	Mr President, I was asking you at least the same two-minute tolerance you had with the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u129	Mr President, I told you that you have already exceeded your time in the same second that I warned Mr Secretary of State. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you: are you today aware of how the General Deposit Box will operate on international markets? Are you going to close the counters? How many workers will be fired or how many will call to negotiate? It is true that EUR 800 million is only to pay indeminations to the workers who have gone away, which, by complying with the law, gives an estimated number of 5000 workers that the General Deposit Box has to fire. I repeat : 5000 workers who, following the law, the General Deposit Box would have to resign to use these 800 million. And tell me something, about the issue of obligations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u131	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u132	... of such release of obligations open to private parties, to speculators, with whom the Left Block and the Communist Party so much are frightened: are these obligations, at the end of their maturity, possible to convert into actions or not? Is that assured? Are you absolutely cautious? One final question: is the recapitalisation process definitely closed in Brussels and there is nothing else to be done between the Portuguese Government and the international institutions? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u133	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u134	Mr President, in fact, when there are no arguments, there are ghosts. I would like to make it very clear that the CDS is bound by its positions and its position has always been that the Box should be public. That is what the Government Programme said that the CDS was part of. And more: the government that the CDS was part not only did not privatize the Box as it recapitalised the Box, contrary to what the honourable Member seems to think.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u135	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u136	But more: the CDS is not like the parties on the left, who come here saying they are against the layoffs in the box. However, it is the government that you support that you are doing so, and if you do not support it there was no such dismissal. They are also here saying that they want more of the Box in the national territory. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, about the closure of counters, what part did you not understand? Oh, my God! Where can this represent the greater presence of the Box in the national territory? It is very simple: if they do not agree, they do not make it possible, because none of this happens without your vote. I repeat, none of this happens without your vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u137	And the CDS will support the closing of counters?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u138	Mr Secretary of State, it was indeed a traditional intervention in the sense of tradition that there seems to be in the Ministry of Finance not to answer strictly any questions, let the questions drag and speculation continue, because the question was very clear, Mr Secretary of State, as to the 700 million euros that are being announced. Of two, one : or what you are forecasting is to fire 5000 workers — and if it is, you would say so — or what you are forecasting is double what is legally established. I think it is important, even for themselves, because Mr Finance Minister always has very nice words for himself, but then in acts, I think it would be important for them to know what they are counting on instead of having these kind words. Thirdly, and in conclusion, I would like to say that the CDS has always considered that an economy needs a healthy bank to function well. I don't think we disagree on that. In fact, now there is almost unanimity, because it seems that there are newly converted benches on this side of the left. There's some new converts there! But never, never until a few months ago, had we seen the bank become the alpha and the omega of the economy. You have transformed the problems of the bank into the central problem of the economy. But there's one thing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all Portuguese have already understood: the problems of Box and the problems of banks may or may not be solved by this intervention, but the real problems of companies that are decapitalized and indebted and that every day continue to work and generate jobs, they will be more or less in the same, because you are more or less « in paints». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u139	What a perfect fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u140	Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after these interventions, you can see what the PSD and the CDS want. And it was good that they could respond to what they have not answered so far and that it is essential to understand the situation in which we are. You said at the beginning of this legislature that the PS government should not damage what you had done. Now, what we've seen is that, after all, everything was ruined! They are obstacles behind obstacles. We do not forget what happened and what is happening with the financial system, and the problem is not just the Box, it was also the New Bank that you did not solve, it was the BANIF that you pushed with the belly and hid the solutions inside the drawers, now doing the same to the General Deposit Box. You have to answer, for example, because they subcapitalized the General Deposit Box in 2012. Why did they do that?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u142	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u143	And above all, why did they use CoCo to recapitalize the General Deposit Box? They subcapitalized the General Deposit Box and then decapitalized it because they forced the General Deposit Box to deliver 81 million euros to the state, which means decapitalizing the General Deposit Box, which obviously had capital needs. But they also have to explain why they have not tried in Brussels a solution and a scenario of the nature of what the Portuguese Government has tried and achieved. Why did not Brussels negotiate such a solution, which you said was not possible but proved that it was possible with resilience and with negotiating capacity? You did not believe in this solution, but it was possible to do so and you have to explain to the country why you have been in a restructuring process that has not been successful and why you have not tried this solution, which is, in fact, the best one for the country as well. It is clear, therefore, that you are trying to do two things: firstly, you are trying to cover up those who have been your mistakes in the past and, secondly, to poison public opinion and all the social communication about this solution, which is the best solution for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u144	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u145	I am sorry, Mr President, that I do not usually abuse this regiment figure, but it is only so that, from the very first session, it will be clear and definite. There was either an agreement, during the first legislative session, between all parliamentary groups, that the parliamentary group that required, scheduled or proposed a debate would have the power to open and close. In good faith, we, as Mr President, gave the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles — and there were still parliamentary groups and there were others without time — of course, we found that it was to be closed. It is not a legal issue, it is not a matter of regulation, but since there was this agreement and it was fulfilled during the last legislative session, we would like to know whether it is to maintain and comply. Furthermore, and for there to be no doubt, the agenda refers to the marking of the CDS-PP of the debate on the agreement between the Government and the European institutions on the General Deposit Box and should therefore be the CDS-PP to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u146	Mr President, your request was made clear. There is indeed this tradition, it happens that at the time the information was passed that there was only one inscription. The honourable Member spoke, but there were the times shown in the picture and it was perceived that there was time for other parties, and they could use it or not. The Bureau therefore does not accept responsibility for this. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u147	Mr President, I would like to say that Mr Nuno Magalhães is right about this agreement that was in the order of the speeches. When Mrs Cecilia Meireles appeared as the only registrar we understand that it was by choice of the CDS to intervene closer to the intervention of the Government, because if not at the time we had been registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u148	Thank you, sir. In addition to Mr Miguel Tiago, Mrs Mariana Mortágua is also registered. Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we must also welcome the CDS for scheduling this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u150	Oh, that's nice!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u151	But what is clear, after this exchange of impressions from the various parliamentary groups, is that the PSD and the CDS, now in the opposition, maintain the same stance they had while they were in the government, which is to do everything to weaken the position of the Box in the Portuguese financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u153	While they were in the government they made a wrong recapitalisation, with a restructuring plan that did not comply and which, precisely because they were not fulfilled, leads to the current situation. It is the failure to comply with the restructuring plan that they have — in fact, they have achieved zero — that brings to the current situation or, better, that aggravates the current situation, and now they continue to have this position of doing everything to undermine the position of the Box. And more: now using the General Deposit Box, one of the pillars of the Portuguese financial system and the public bank, the public pole in the financial system, as a weapon of political-party shooting, as if the Box could be used as a weapon of shooting.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u155	And it is also noted very well that it does not matter to the PSD and CDS that capitalisation is a success and strengthens the position of the Box within the Portuguese financial system. What matters at this time is, on the contrary, to ensure that the Box can be used as a political instrument and that this process can go wrong, even if this political campaign of the PSD and the CDS can also have more success, which implies the failure of the Portuguese welfare. That seems to be what the PSD and CDS are up to.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u156	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u157	I also want to leave a note on CDS incongruence. The CDS, when talking about the capitalization of private banks, tells the Portuguese: « Portuguese, money must be injected into the private bank because it is necessary to give credit to companies. If the financial system, private banks are decapitalised, there is no credit for companies and companies are creating jobs." [[CDS-PP protests.]] When the CDS speaks of the capitalization of the public bank it says: « Portuguese, you cannot capitalise on the public bank, because what is needed is to give money to Portuguese companies that are decapitalised ». [[CDS-PP protests.]] When it is for the private, it is through the private that money reaches businesses; when it is for the public it seems that the bank is no more than a resource ice cream. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u158	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regardless of the explanations that still have to be given, and the Left Block agrees that there are explanations about this process that have to be given in much more detail, the frontal debates take place when everyone comes to play revealing their position. But we do not realize whether the right, PSD and CDS, is or not in favour of recapitalizing the Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u160	I didn't understand the BE position yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u161	The Block presents its position: we do not accept dismissals. PSD and CDS ask questions and questions about layoffs but we don't realize if they accept layoffs. The Left Block says it does not accept the reduction of the country's geographical network. The CDS and PSD ask questions and questions but we do not know whether or not they accept a geographical reduction in the country. The difference is that nothing obliges the Left Block to approve a recapitalisation of the Box or any plan for its recapitalisation, but we impose conditions and leave our position transparent and clear to the Government and the Country. And on the right side there are no conditions, there is no opinion, there is no position, there is a 'botabaixism' to create confusion without anything to clarify, without nothing to dignify the position of the different parties in relation to an essential instrument for economic policy that is the public bank. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is logical that a recapitalised and conditioned bank is very important to companies, but it is also completely true that this does not solve the problem of subcapitalisation and indebtedness of companies. I will also tell you that no government has ever destroyed as many companies in this country as the Rabbit Pass Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u162	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u163	Never, no government has ever destroyed so many companies! What affected companies — and it is worth reading the INE investment surveys because I think entrepreneurs do not lie — was lack of demand, lack of sales perspective. It is the most given response in the IP to the investment made by the INE directly to the companies. So, concluding, is there anything that needs to be done to recover economic activity? Yes! This goes through a recapitalised and public bank, public investment, increased demand and purchasing power. None of these measures are defended by the CDS or PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u164	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the debate on the agreement between the Government and the European institutions on the General Deposit Box and now turn to the next item on the agenda on political declarations. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are on our way to the end of the third quarter of 2016. Time is no longer the time to make forecasts, time is already the time to figure out some results for 2016. We know that these are not final results, they are still intermediate results, but they are factual results. The Left Government has promised more growth in the economy. We are growing less than we grew last year and we are growing much less than the government budget for 2016. Of course, there is no problem — Mr Prime Minister has already said that the deficit will fall below 3 %, perhaps around 2 %. The Left Government has promised to grow more in exports. We are growing less than we grew last year and less than the State Budget forecast for 2016. But there is no problem — Mr Prime Minister and the government have already said that the deficit will fall below 3 %, perhaps around 2 %. The left-wing government has promised more investment. We are growing less and having less investment and, even public investment, this always left-wing weapon, the PCP, the Block, the PS, which so often claimed, is also at almost complete stagnation levels. But, of course, everything will be solved, because the 2016 deficit will be below 3 %, more or less, maybe around 2, 5 %. As for debt, the containment phase and the downward trajectory of debt has been reversed: debt is growing. And it's growing more than the State Budget for 2016 predicts. Of course, it's worrisome, but the deficit is going to fall below 3%, maybe around 2.5%. With regard to consumption, the cornerstone of the economic model of this government and the parties that support it, the Government of the Left has promised and made its projections but is far below what the State Budget for 2016 foresees, and is even below what grew in 2015, that year when the Government of the PSD and the CDS-PP were putting an end to domestic demand. But from the left, which gave rise to this economic model, there is, of course, a word of tranquility: the deficit will fall below 3 %, it must be around 2 %. Yes, you are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is simple: this left-wing government has promised and failed. And, as ironically, this left-wing government has become and is today the deficit government. The Left Government, the PCP, the Left Block, the Socialist Party, is, as it were, the deficit government! We don't know what the deficit will be at the end of the year, but we know that this government, those who support it, those who are complicit and gripped in their policies, Dr. António Costa, Deputy Catarina Martins, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, these have a new currency: the deficit. The deficit is the principle and end of all government policy. Of course it is necessary to disguise this reality a little bit; it is obvious, but it must be disguised. And then another tactic enters: fake conversation, agitation, hypocrisy, and sometimes even sounding. In a few days, Catarina simulates repentance; in other days, Jerome simulates nothing to do with this government and, in other days, Antonio Costa cries for PSD proposals. Those who have always rejected, those who have always ignored, those who are reverting as Prime Minister, these are now essential for the government, for Dr. António Costa, for Deputy Catarina and for Mr. Jerónimo. As if they were interested in following them, they who are constantly rejecting them and contradicting them! That was important so that the government could rule. Yesterday, with a supreme rejection, the Prime Minister, in the face of some warnings, of those who have had, yes, day by day not by their partners, said that he was going to restore the pensions that the PSD and CDS government had cut. What a falsity! There is no longer a pension cut in Portugal since 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u166	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u167	And there are no longer minimum social and rural pensions frozen since 2011, since Dr. António Costa and the Socialist Party left the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u168	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u169	And now does Dr. António Costa want to come and say he's not going to cut? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u170	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. My dear left-wingers...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u172	They want to see that he's still giving us advice!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u173	... defenders of this left-wing government, accomplices of the left-wing government, followers of the left-wing government, stop tricks, stop skills, have to rule, and rule is not only « manage», rule is not only survive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u174	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u175	...to govern is to decide, to govern should be to comply, and it is not. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u176	This intervention did not happen at the school of Castelo de Vide!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u177	At least they don't have the profits of the Front Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u178	There's still someone who's defending him!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u179	For a political statement, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, on behalf of the Socialist Party, to begin by leaving a record of dismay over the effects of forest fires which once again have scourged vast areas of the national territory. We therefore lend solidarity to all those who have been affected and harmed, and we affirm our commitment to a joint work that will enable us to prevent and act in the future in order to reduce repetitions with such consequences. We're done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first legislative session of this XIII Parliament. in the House of Democracy, by a legitimate and representative conjugation of the will of the Portuguese, we have given the state of a new government, the country of a new direction and the Portuguese of a new hope. in a statement of change and stability, we put an end to a government orientation that ceased to have the support of the majority of Portuguese; we reformed and resumed a dignified and better successful relationship with the European Union ; we adopted, by an unequivocal majority, the Government's programme in office, the State budget for the current year and established objectives and procedures in documents subject to parliamentary review, with emphasis on the National Reform Programme, the Stability Programme, among others, while giving priority to the recovery of rights, income and social conditions. To this end, the Government has had the criticism and support of the parliamentary majority, always referred to in the national interest. If something essentially true can be said about the legislative session that now ends is that the parties that approved the government's investment have never resigned from their commitments but have never brought them into conflict with the stability they have linked themselves to and with the interests and defence of the country within and outside borders. on the contrary, Portugal did not always have all the party opposition in the external defense of our country and the Portuguese, day after day, lived with an enzymatic opposition, ensimesmada, uninterested of the alternatives and discouraging. We often face a destructive party opposition, which bets on disillusionment and collective failure, as if they could profit from it. However, the PSD is worse than the CDS. The latter is still predisposed to say what comes, but the PSD bets on the desert to grow. In any case, the country continues, the country works to recover, with the strength of Portuguese and Portuguese workers, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. The times are difficult: it is enough to remind ourselves of the successive downward revisions of the forecasts for world economic growth. But, as the President of the Republic says, although the end of the crises is not decreed, there are also indicators that we should value and therefore a path that we can continue to take. We must therefore mobilize all our efforts to ensure that confidence in Portugal translates into more investment, more growth, more wealth and more employment. We have not yet reached the desired speed to do so, much also because of the inadequacies generated in the past, the economic crisis and the decapitalisation of companies, the public finances crisis and the increase in debt and the banking crisis that the previous government has neglected and covered. But we'll be there! in the second quarter of 2016, already with the Budget of the current government in force, the Portuguese economy has grown in chains, little but in acceleration since the end of 2015 and in convergence with that of the euro zone. Austria, France and Italy are examples of countries that have grown less than Portugal. The OECD itself today pointed to an ongoing, clear recovery of the Portuguese economy. Exports increased by the beginning of the year, there are no indicators of confidence worse than six months ago, and the unemployment rate is the lowest since the third quarter of 2010. unlike the past, the recovery of labour market indicators occurs with fewer than 57 000 people in occupational programs than in June 2015. In just one semester we created 41 000 net jobs, while the government destroyed 240 000 in four and a half years. Budget implementation will remain in line with deficit constraints.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u181	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u182	I shall therefore finish, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, reiterating that, as the path of imponderable and difficult, we are fulfilling our programme and the agreements we have concluded, with a view to restoring the confidence of citizens and businesses and the dignity of our country. We feel that the Portuguese are next to the politicians who build and not those who only know how to destroy. The Portuguese can therefore count on the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u183	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The year 2016 is being marked by the scourge of the fires that fatten in our country. In Portugal we have half the burned area in Europe and everything indicates that, despite this year having a smaller number of fires than in previous years, the burning area is much larger, with the cases of populations at risk and homes destroyed even more serious than in previous years. The example of Madeira is perhaps the most serious in a country that is under this huge scourge. During this session there are still several fire fronts that are active and threatening populations. For this reason, first of all, we must recognize the efforts of firefighters who have fought the fires throughout the country, often with superhuman forces and with a willingness that we should admire. But secondly, I also want to leave a word of solidarity to the peoples who, from north to south of the country and on the islands, have been hit by this scourge and to whom we cannot leave without answers: exceptional years should deserve exceptional answers in support of these populations. Of course, there are climate change that, today, no one can deny. Of course, too, and obviously, the year 2016 is beating all the temperature records and the hottest days ever seen have occurred in the most recent days. But it is also true that the country cannot be continuously looting, continually dependent on these atmospheric events and, year after year, to see its wealth destroyed and to be in shock, in summer, with fires. It is true that there is a heavy legacy from the previous government. The pull that PSD and CDS have made the country still hard, with the destruction of the forest. The choice, for example, of the country's eucalyptization — that known decision of Christian Assumption — is the choice of who gave, then, a smaller diversity to the forest and, with this, a greater stain of eucalyptal, which, as we know, is the most prone to fires and that most generates burned area. It is possible to have preventive measures. Once again, the previous government has sinned for nothing to do and, once again, we pay the costs of this inaction. In Portugal, only 3 % of the forest area is under the reach of the State. Only 3 % of the forest area is public. If we compare with Germany, where 55 % are public, or even the European Union average, where 50 % of the forest area is public, we perceive the disparity of State presence in the forest and how this has influence and impact on forest planning models and prevention policies. Land abandonment is a reality we see and is a danger to landowners, because it puts their possessions at risk, but it is a danger to neighbors and populations. And to do nothing is to help that danger materialize year after year. But there are choices, there are policies that can be active to promote the fight against the abandonment of the earth. Associivism of forest owners is one of these examples, increasing the scale, allowing the achievement of a return to invest again in the forest, also ensuring measures to combat and prevent fires. The realization of a register that gives names to the earth, that tells us who are the owners who abandoned it is also essential and still far from being reached. The legacy of the PSD, the legacy of the eucalypt choices, must be revoked. It's an emergency to be revoked! We cannot let the eucalyptus continue to spread, with the predatory will of the celluloses, at the same time leaving more unprotected the populations living near the forest. The diversity of species is a guarantee that if the fattening fire is easier to be contained and combated. And those who know the forest well know that in areas of eucalyptal, after the fire passes, everything is destroyed and in areas of pine and oak the reality is very different. Therefore, those who have let the eucalyptal expand are also relevant to today’s situation. But we still need to discuss what we can do best with regard to combat measures. It is true that it is possible to have better policies for the coordination of civil protection, particularly in the relationship of the place with the district and district with the national. But we must definitely end with the shame that it is the firefighting business.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u185	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u186	I shall finish quickly, Mr. President. The Kamov helicopter record is a good example of a business done at the expense of the public interest and is another heavy legacy of the PSD/CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u187	Exactly! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u188	While the helicopters were stopped, they flew the millions of euros from the public safes to the private purse. If public interest has never been guarded, the truth is that private interest has always been benefited.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u189	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u190	We hope that justice will be done quickly and that the report made by the IGAI (General Inspection of Internal Administration ) and sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office will have consequences. But we want more: we want the investigation of the public contest you gave to Everjets, then bought by Domingos Nevoa, the maintenance operation of the Kamov helicopters.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u191	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u192	Even to conclude, Mr President, I want to say that the Left Block accompanies the idea of putting the Air Force at the disposal of the country and civil protection, as happened in the past, to fight fires. The priority is the defence of the population, the guarantee of a forest in the service of the country and an economic interest that never underestimates the interests of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u193	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This month of interruption of work in the House has aggravated what is the practice of the majority of the left. Left Block, PCP, The Greens and the PS have aggravated what, by pure ideological persecution, is the goal of this majority: the "target shot" to the middle class, and the "target shot" to the middle class for a purely ideological question of thinking that the same middle class is the one that the Left Block once called "the rich" — if someone has a car, he is rich, he can pay more taxes on gasoline and gas oil; if he has his own house, he is rich, he can pay more IMI (municipal property tax) ; if he is rich, he can have a income freeze; if his home has a sun, he is rich, he must pay more IMI. The majority of hypocrisy—where some say on Monday that they would not do so—but on Friday they vote—where others say they did not want to, but on Friday they still vote—in the name of pure party interests, what they consider to be the goal, which is to attack the middle class. In the name of reversing reforms that only reinforce trade union positions and party positions of these parties, there is an unmeasured attack on the middle class. Moreover, in the budget implementation presented by this Government in August, we all realize that the government has increased taxes for the middle class to pay the salaries of the public service and the interest of the public debt, which do not stop firing because of the irresponsibility of this government. But this middle class persecution is also a persecution of companies. We realize that the whole socialist model, from an economic point of view, has failed. before the elections, António Costa spoke in 2, 4 %, the prediction of Mário Centeno — it is understood why he does not want to face — is 1, 8 % and the reality is anemic growth of 0, 9 %. in exports, the Centeno forecast was more than 4, 3 %; reality is much harder, is less than half, is 2, 2 %. The private, internal and external investment falls to peak and even public investment, which would solve all the problems of the country, which would have such a shock that would allow the economy to recover, is falling, and falling quite, compared to last year. The private consumption, the capacity that the increase in this consumption would have to increase the country and, with this, Portugal to be able to meet its goals, where is it? We have also found that private consumption has the lowest value in the last three years. It is the failure of the Socialist Party model, it is the failure of the Left Block model, it is the failure of the PCP model. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And evil, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the middle class who pays and will pay. We have already seen that they will start with the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) with more steps and with the capacity of all, particularly the middle class, to pay more taxes. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u195	If there were more steps, they would pay less!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u196	And the truth, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, is that, as much as you, whenever you take a measure of austerity to the left, say that this serves to reach the richest, the richest gentlemen do not move from middle class to the common of Portuguese. Even today, in the Council of Ministers, they have adopted a diploma that strengthens tax prosecution for taxpayers, for those rich, for you. The issue of the exchange of information and the strengthening of the exchange of information that they wish to claim is that the diploma approved today introduces the obligation to access the tax administration of bank balances of all citizens over EUR 50 000. They are such rich you say you want to fight and they don't go from middle class! This is a matter which, moreover, the National Data Protection Commission has considered, and well, clearly disproportionate, a matter which, moreover, constitutionalists consider unconstitutional,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u197	What are you afraid of? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u198	... which, moreover, the President of the Republic himself considered, and well, eight days ago, inappropriate. It is the big brother state, that the left ones so much like, to get into the lives of the citizens, to cover everything about the citizens, in particular their bank accounts. The majority have failed, the country will pay, but on the part of the CDS, we continue to have a firm position, particularly because we will not allow the creation of a big brother state of the Tax Authority and we will require the parliamentary assessment of this diploma. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u199	What do you have to hide? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u200	For a political statement, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When a Member, or any citizen, travels by plane from a national airport, the security conditions of his boarding and his journey are assured by the assistants of ports and airports. When a Member of Parliament, or any citizen, is overflighted by a civilian aircraft that departed from a national airport, the intervention of the assistants of ports and airports was decisive for the operation in air transport, either in the safe aspect or in the security aspect. What many ignore is that the safety of the 40 million passengers who pass annually at national airports depends on workers who survive with low wages and hours and inhuman workloads; who do not have time (or half an hour) for meals; who do not have bathing opportunities to be able to graze, as required; who face unacceptable situations in health, hygiene and safety at work. These workers develop a central activity for the operation of civil aviation and are victims of the multinationals to which the Portuguese State has delivered the airport activity under concession — Vinci, which holds ANA, and Prosecur and Securitas, which are subcontracted for the control of passengers and baggage. The PCP promoted a parliamentary hearing last June to the assistants of ports and airports, which included the participation of workers from the sector, from the airports of Lisbon, Porto, Funchal and Ponta Delgada, including union delegates and leaders. The picture drawn by the participants left the clear picture of a sector where precariousness and low wages prevail, with a worrying degradation of working conditions. These workers require only what is right: the negotiation of a collective contract with the stability of working time; the creation of a professional career; bathing and rest rooms; medical examinations and control of exposure to ionizing radiation; combating precariousness and low wages. But, after years of being ignored and disrespected, the assistants of ports and airports went to the fight and carried out, last day 27, the greatest action of struggle that the sector ever had. The strike took place at all national airports, especially at Lisbon airport, with about 80 % of membership. The concentration that took place during the morning at Lisbon airport, where we were present, brought together hundreds of workers. however, what we saw in the first phase was the attempt to impose illegal minimum services; in the second phase, the use of security forces to try to prevent the strike from having greater effects; and in the third stage, the absence of measures to remedy the illegalities occurring at the airport. Elements of the PSP were placed to replace workers on strike. The airport operation continued when security concerns were evident. And the situation took on extremely serious contours with the opening of tourniquets that allowed passengers to pass a control barrier without showing any identification, which raises the greatest concerns about compliance or non-compliance with safety standards and procedures and what this implies for the country and national civil aviation. Anyone like us who was present on that day at Lisbon airport could see the lack of conditions under which the operation was located. In addition to the issues we put to the government, concerning the joint order determining minimum services illegally, it is important to clarify the situation in this strike. For this reason, the CFP has addressed to the Government the question of these facts, so that they are fully clarified and ascertained the responsibilities. What is certain is that, by resisting threats, blackmails and pressures, the assistants of ports and airports have carried out an unprecedented struggle journey in this sector, which has still meant a powerful victory of democratic values. From here we want to greet the assistants of ports and airports and their struggle, to welcome their dignity, tenacity and unity, to welcome the class consciousness of those who refuse to "eat and shut" and, on our part, to reaffirm the commitment of the CFP to pursue an intervention to fight and propose for workers' rights and to ensure the safety and quality of air transport and national infrastructure. In this sector too, change must be seen and recognised that workers are right, that workers are supported in their fair claims against exploitation, for better wages, for decent working conditions and for respect for the importance of their work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u202	For a political statement, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The political statement I am going to make is also about forest and forest fires. The first word I would like to leave here is a deep solidarity with the victims of the fires and also with the families of the victims who have unfortunately died because of these fires. The second word, but also no less important, is a strong praise to the firemen of this country, by the self-denial, by the sense of responsibility, by the heroic performance of service to this country, to its people and to its natural heritage and it is fair to recognize it not only now, but always. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens have been on the ground in the face of the disaster of the forest fires that happened once again this year. in this field, at this time of fires, The Greens noted a difference in the disasters that also occurred, with large forest fires in the years 2003 and 2005. And the substantial difference is that the personnel who are in the fight against fires and the populations today have a deep-rooted awareness that eucalyptus is a cause of the size of forest fires. This was said to us with great clarity and great meaning: "Take away these infinable stains from the eucalyptus! Do not keep on seeking. ” — we have heard this very regularly. And I believe that we should give credibility to the people on the ground, because, in fact, these endless spots of eucalyptus are an authentic trail where fire easily spreads, reaching also, of course, with greater size, other species. Now, say this, we agree, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no news for the Assembly of the Republic. I do not need to remind you here that this Parliament, through committees, working groups, numerous hearings and field trips, has already produced numerous reports on forest fires, and everyone is talking about the issue of forest planning and forest-based species. It means this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do the Greens think that we should not set up any more working groups to get detailed knowledge of the problems and solutions? No, it doesn't. We believe that we should continue, and the Assembly of the Republic has this responsibility, to be aware of the problems, to hear who is on the ground and to listen to the people who specialize in the subject. We therefore welcome the initiative that the CFP has taken on the proposal to set up a working group in the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea. But it also means something else, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It means that it is time to stop producing reports, to move on to practice — I repeat, to practice! That is fundamental and that is why the Assembly of the Republic is now called. The Greens therefore say here, in this rostrum and with great conviction: it is time to put an end to this « eucalyptolândia » in which Portugal became. We must deviate from this 'eucaliptocentrism', which is said to be in good rigour and in favour of truth, the PSD/CDS Government has emphasized, in particular by virtue of that law of treemaking and of the reforestation which has liberalized the culture of eucalyptus. The end of the eucalyptus empire is what the Greens say, with great conviction. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of the 53 000 hectares burned this summer, 37 000 hectares are eucalyptal — 70 %! Someone has to wake up and, in particular, those who spend their lives saying "no" with their heads. It's time to wake up and it's time for action. So I also want to tell you that the Greens do not wake up for these matters only when they happen. We've been doing this for many years, and like the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been informing ourselves on the ground and looking for solutions for many years. Only that we have acted accordingly and that is what we ask of you, all of us. Therefore, in our joint position with the Socialist Party we do not forget this issue and we write there that it is time to stop the growth of the eucalyptus due, in particular, to the increase of more resilient forest settlements, such as the surrogate. It is crucial that we are working with the Government to make this happen quickly and we also want to ask the Government here — and I take advantage of the presence of the Secretary of State — to speed up this process. On the other hand, there is another issue where the Greens will continue to beat: more surveillance in the forest, more people watching the forest; more forest guards, more nature watchers, more life and population in the rural world. It's fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u204	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u205	The ladies and gentlemen. Members can say that it costs a lot of money. It actually costs, but it costs much more than the country pays to fight this dimension of forest fires and to recover what has been damaged by forest fires. So in this State budget, the Greens will not forget this either. Finally, Mr President, I just wanted to say that the Greens will be upset, and they will be very upset until the necessary amendments have been made. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u206	under Article 78 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic now have the floor of the Government to make a statement, through the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to leave a brief note to record the ability that the CDS always has to surprise us. There was still little part of a government that led the greatest tax increase in the history of our democracy and that made the greatest attack on the middle class, when it brutally increased the IRS by reducing the number of steps to five and accepting taxes on companies as the only reduction in taxation. But now we have a CDS paid to the middle class! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] at the end of the legislative session, and immediately before the next session, we wanted to use it to reaffirm the matrix of values that guide the action of this government. Allow me, in fact, to underline specifically three of these fundamental values. First of all, I stress the appreciation of democracy and, in particular, the dignity of Parliament as an area of political representation. The relationship between the Government and the parliamentary majority that supports it represents an unprecedented deepening of our democracy, because it has brought to the exercise of the most partyed governance and therefore the will and interests of the citizens they represent. Better political representation does not only produce richer democracy, it also produces more plural and demanding governance, for which all parties supporting the government contribute. Some may not understand it, but in the relationship between the Government and the parliamentary majority there are no hostages or exchanges of measures, there are partners and collective work in building convergences to improve the lives of Portuguese. Secondly, I would like to stress the appreciation of collective well-being, of all citizens and workers who constitute our political community. The replacement of income that we started in the State Budget for 2016 and that we will continue with the State Budget for 2017 is not only important as a macroeconomic instrument. Returning income is also a return of dignity. It is essential because we want families to receive what they have right, that they can live in comfort in the present and that they are able to plan for the future. It is, above all, essential for them to have reasons to defeat the guilt speech that the right wanted to sell to the country and believe that they can live better in Portugal. What costs the opposition most is not that the current governance solution returns income to Portuguese. What costs them most is that the current Executive and the majority of parliament are showing the country that it is possible to govern successfully without crushing wages and pensions and without compressing employment and social rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u208	What success? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u209	Thirdly, I stress the defence of the values of freedom and equality, as well as of the political institutions that give them body, in particular those that make the social state one of the greatest constructions of our civilization: the universal and free public school, the National Health Service, the public pension system and the protection and security conferred by labour law. While the right has as a project the progressive dismantling of the social state, we defend it as an essential tool to build a country of free and equal citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u210	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u211	It is to ensure the freedom of all that we must defend and deepen the social state. Yes, the freedom, the freedom of a worker can project his life in the future, without depending on the arbitraryness of his employers; the freedom of, in the disease, a worker does not remain deprived of treatment or income; the freedom of, in old age, does not depend on the charity or instability of financial markets; the freedom of, in unemployment, does not fall into poverty; the freedom to, by the training guaranteed by public school, be able to choose to build his professional life. Freedom, earned without rents or favors paid to private businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Without a social state, only a few would be able to be truly free. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these months have not only allowed the Portuguese to grasp the values that move this government. The Portuguese also already know what this government does not defend or do. Firstly, this government does not make or hide the social and economic situation that the country is going through. Portugal does not live in the near future of the disaster, as the opposition implores every day, but still seeks to emerge from a serious crisis that has lasted for several years, the roots of which the previous government did not understand and whose depth it despised. It is for the country to leave this crisis behind, sustainably, that this government and this parliamentary majority work every day, always rejecting the idea that the exit of the crisis must be made by the way of collective impoverishment. Secondly, this Government does not think or accept that, in order to get out of the crisis, the country needs to place private sector workers against public sector workers, workers employed against workers who lost them, young people against their parents and grandparents. Instead of the permanent division strategy that guided the previous Executive, this Government considers that Portugal will only emerge from the crisis as a social and political community and cohesion and solidarity, in which everyone contributes to collective well-being according to its incomes and capacities. Thirdly, this government will not make the reforms that the right would do if it were in power. Today, public debate prevails the idea that to make reforms is to privatize companies and public services, deregulate labor relations and liberalize all areas of human life. No, these reforms we don't! And it's not because of the Left Block, the PCP or the Greens, it's because the Socialist Party doesn't want them either. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u212	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u213	I will finish, Mr. President. Who is truly a social-democrat knows that, for us, social-democrats, socialists and laborers, reforming has always meant something else. Reform was to introduce parental leave, create unemployment allowance, family allowance or various social benefits to combat poverty. Reforming was universalizing and improving public school, it was creating the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u214	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u215	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. That is why when we say that we want to extend the continuing care network, ensure pre-schooling for all children and combat the precariousness of working relationships, we are saying that we want to make reforms. For us, reforming has always meant improving the lives of Portuguese people, it never makes it worse. It is in this framework of values and objectives that we are preparing the next State Budget and that we work every day to build the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u216	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the debate, by marking the CDS-PP, on the question of travel allegedly paid by Galp to government members.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u217	Mr President, will you excuse me from using the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u218	Is it about the conduct of the work, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u219	Yes, of course, Mr President, but it is already on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u220	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u221	Mr President, the appeal is simple. on 5 August, the PSD asked a parliamentary question — regimental, therefore — to Mr Prime Minister on this subject, in which we asked who received what was from Galp, with what value, with what kind of offer, to which members of the Government. We have made this question and the legal deadline for reply has already been exceeded. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister is already violating the rules of procedure for not responding. I wonder how the PSD and the honourable Members who asked the questions were not notified, Mr President knows whether the services already have the answer, whether the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs brings the answer or whether the Government will continue to violate the law, not answering Parliament's legal questions?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u222	Mr President, the only thing the Bureau can answer to you, through me, is that you are not aware of the entry of any reply on this matter. On other issues, the Secretary of State or other element of the Government may respond at the right time during this debate. To begin the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Going directly to the subject of travel paid by Galp, the first question to be answered is « what is at stake? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” from our point of view, what is at stake in this area is a question of transparency, it is an issue of objective responsibility, it is a question of ethics, issues that in the past were very expensive both to the Socialist Party and to the parties that are now auxiliary parties of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u225	We do not want to have an abstract discussion on abstract cases. We are talking about a specific situation strictly from a political point of view. We do not draw illusions that are not from our competence or the judicial forum, nor do we take any kind of illusions from a personal perspective, so to speak. It is a political, only political and objectively political case. A government member with direct guardianship over a company, one of the largest in the country, is said to pass, a company which at the same time has a dispute over 100 million with the State, can or should travel at the invitation of that company to attend a sporting event? For us, the answer is very simple, very direct and very objective: it cannot, nor should!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u227	That was neither the answer nor the conclusion of the government, and that is where the mistake lies. What did the government do, first, with regard to a State Secretary and then with respect to the other three, whose case we came to know later? What did you do? First of all, he came to take the mistake, somehow. When you say you will return, you will pay, you are, of course, assuming that this was an unacceptable ideal mistake. Secondly, he announced that he would make a code of conduct—it would have been done in the meantime—as if there was no previous code of conduct, as if we did not know the code of conduct with which they applied to the elections or as if the code of conduct of the tax administration itself was not much tighter than that and it should not be applied immediately to the departure of the Secretary of State concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u229	He then hurried to say « closed case », « no more talking about this », « no more case». in our opinion, there is no case closed. The idea remains that this same Secretary of State, just to give an example, who walked during the summer to announce that he wanted to tax the sun, tax the sights or pursue the sellers of balls of Berlin or ice cream balls, does not apply to himself the same rigor as he wants to apply to others. That is, in a style figure, Berlin balls, ball sellers, tax on them; already with Galp we go to the ball! The attitude is completely different. It is clear that the idea that remains here — and that is dangerous and problematic — is that you are indeed weak with the powerful ones, are complicit with the powerful ones and are very strong with the weak ones, with those who want to tax. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] That is the idea that remains here, Mr. Secretary of State, and that is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u230	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u231	I shall end, Mr President, by saying only one very simple thing: there are those who say that it was a mere ashehice, but the ashehice at this level of responsibility is not acceptable. And it's not enough to say, as the PCP or the Left Block says, that this didn't fall very well, that it's critical.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u232	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u233	In the past, you asked for resignation for everything and for nothing, 'by giving that straw here' and now you think it didn't fall very well. Mr President, I end by asking a question. Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs announced that he would withdraw powers from the Secretary of State Costa Oliveira, who, under his competence, has the protection of Galp. Question : Is the Government going or not doing the same in relation to the other Mr. Secretary of State? I mean, does one withdraw competences from the other keep everything the same? It is the answer to this question that, on behalf of ethics, is required of the Government in this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u234	Mrs. Members, the question of the fulfillment of the times was right at the Conference of Leaders and there was even a discussion with some time to resolve this issue. I therefore ask that, as much as possible, the times be fulfilled. at present, the Bureau does not register. The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs was directly sued, but I do not know whether he intends to intervene at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u235	No, I don't want to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u236	Thus, with no inscriptions, we will move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u237	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u238	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u239	Mr President, before I speak, I would like to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u240	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u241	Mr President, I understand this exercise, but if the registrations are organized... recently, we have had a small incident by disrespecting an old rule and now we have a little trick to try to make this a debate dominated by the majority. The Government was asked in writing by the PSD, now it is requested by the CDS, after also having been questioned orally, and does not respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u242	Are you making an intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u243	Mr António Leitão Amaro is making an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u244	Mr António Leitão Amaro, the Bureau cannot replace the parties in the registration, what can be done is to appeal to the parties to register. If you do not sign up, there will be a day when we quickly move on to the next item on the agenda and this ends. You have the floor Mr. Secretary of State, who meanwhile asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u245	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u246	Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u247	Mr President, the Government has no discomfort and is here to answer the questions. I have 3 minutes, so if I start responding to each parliamentary group, I will not be able to respond to those who are left for the end. There is all the government's willingness to respond, and that is why we are here. I would ask the parliamentary groups to sign up, ask their questions, and I will finally answer everyone, because I have only three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u248	The position of the Government has already been understood. Mrs. Members of the various parliamentary groups, please sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u249	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u250	Is it to sign up?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u251	It is to call on the Bureau, Mr President, very quickly. The PSD will sign up and make its intervention, but we want to denounce here a parliamentary practice that is not healthy. in Parliament, there are parties that support the government and parties that oppose the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u252	What you're doing is an appeal to the Bureau, isn't it Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u253	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u254	It's good to clarify.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u255	I believe that Mr President should ensure the functioning of the most basic rules of democracy, i.e. that there is intervention and contradiction between the parties that support the government and the parties that oppose the government. If there is a point on the agenda each time the two parties, which are the only ones who make real opposition to the government in this House, speak at the beginning, then four parties will then speak after which they support the positions of the Government. This is not a healthy functioning of a democratic Parliament, with democratic principles
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u256	That's what it was good for you to decide for others!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u257	Mr Luís Montenegro, the Bureau cannot register anyone from any parliamentary group, the parliamentary group must register. You know very well that this is how this House works.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u258	Supported, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u259	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in today's debate we discussed much more than some state secretaries who are weakened by receiving valuable offers from a company that has a special relationship with the State, in the case of a dispute of more than EUR 100 million for a tax that does not pay. We discussed more than a State Secretary who has his authority broken down because he directs the public body that is party to this millionaire dispute and because the State Secretary himself flagrantly violated the code of conduct of the tax authority itself, in force since 2015. How does the authority of those who do what is forbidden to those who run? Today's debate is not so much about the current situation of these government members, whose capacity is diminished by the conflict of interests and the legal impediments in which they have been involved. This case is serious and worrying. from what is known of the social communication, these offers clearly exceeded the acceptable by the uses and good habits. The reimbursement only recognizes that they should not have been accepted, but the seriousness of the situation would require full clarification. Which rulers have received what offers? Were there others? Of what values? Of what nature? The Government already had a general duty to clarify, but it was a legal duty to answer the parliamentary question that the PSD has made. And, once again, Mr Prime Minister, and to whom we have specifically addressed the question, has been as compromising, as compromising as the behaviour of the Government in general in this case. They began to protect and cover this conduct of State Secretaries, they promised a code of conduct for the Public Administration, which today, by the way, has been approved, but they say that this behaviour is unacceptable, that the offer is prohibited. However, the State Secretaries are acting passively after they have violated the standards that the Government itself says should be valid for the Public Administration. What credibility?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u261	None!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest problem is that this is not an isolated act. This behaviour is part of an unacceptable pattern of conduct by this left-wing Government. But the greatest seriousness is today, in Portugal, a socialist government which brings back the promiscuity between business and political power and which prefers private interests to the general public interest. This has already been the direct adjustment of more than 60 million euros in the Port Metro, without a public tender, and in a way of countering one of TAP's private shareholders.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u263	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u264	This was the case with the non-transparent involvement of the Prime Minister in negotiations between private shareholders of private banks. It was thus with the use of personal friends of the Prime Minister, who acted on behalf of the State, without contract, without guarantees and without impartiality in their selection. First, it was Lacerda Machado, but now it repeated itself with the restructuring of the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u265	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u266	This case of Galp offers is only one more act, it is an act that reveals a pattern of promiscuity that tarnishes this left-wing government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u268	You're accomplices!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u269	This promiscuity, this excessive proximity empowers the capture of political power by economic power, and this is democratically unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u270	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u271	I will finish, Mr. President. This promiscuity and the protection granted by the Prime Minister and the Government to this case is an invitation to the continuation of these promiscuous relations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u272	Offers are with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u273	You really have to conclude, Mr. António Leitão Amaro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u274	in this Parliament, with our differences, the state must always be stronger, bigger or smaller, more supervisor, more provider, more regulator. It must always be strong and this behaviour opens a torn gate to a weaker state, a promiscuous government, with rulers who do not realize that the general interest is above their own and all the particular interests. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u275	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to see the anxiety of the PSD and the CDS for the statement I will make. I hope I'm up to that expectation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The separation between the public interest and the private interest is a requirement of democracy and whenever that requirement is at issue is not a ruler or a particular party in question but it is the democracy itself that is diminished. The increase in society's demand for the exercise of public office is clear, unequivocal and is only reinforced when we also now have, in the opposition, PSD and CDS who want, populistly, to arrange some cases that in the past accepted and thought they were perfectly normal. [[All right! Paulo Portas!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u277	from the Left Block, and to make it clear to all Members and Members and the whole country, we absolutely reject any conduct of government member, member of the Government, member of Parliament, member of municipal executive or a board of parish, finally, any performance of public office, which calls into question the defence of the public interest. That is why we have said publicly and repeated here, in the House of Democracy, that what happened to three State Secretaries is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u279	the same way we say here, in the House of Democracy, that what happened to a PSD member who was also walking at the expense of Galp is unacceptable. For us, there are neither two pesos nor two measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u280	What's for each other is for others!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u281	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u282	the same way we said here, in the House of Democracy, that it is unacceptable that a former finance manager is now consulting a company that acts on the disaster of the economy that it created when it was Minister of Finance. [[Exactly! Maria Luís!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u283	And we also said in the House of Democracy that we find it unacceptable that a former Prime Minister is now going to jump from company to company to contract and take advantage of the knowledge he had over the period he was in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u284	O Doors! That's right! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u285	Now we know what the government's decision is today. today, the government has introduced a code of conduct. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u286	We believe that it is late and that it does not eliminate the events of the recent past. The government has decided... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u287	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to answer all your anxieties, doubts, questions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u288	It looks like a cartoon of itself!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u289	I'm asking you to listen, at least. in the past, the government decided not to withdraw political confidence from these State Secretaries. It was a government decision, it is not the decision of the Left Block. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, in this frontier which is required in the House of Democracy, we reiterate our position that we do not accept behaviour that insists on this promiscuity between the public and the private and, therefore, we do not want words or even codes of conduct, we want the change to the law, and it is with this challenge to all the banks that finish my intervention. Some of the Members who are here belong to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, so they are in the fight against corruption, but challenge all Members of this House who will vote on the initiatives coming out of this Commission to which we join to say that the incompatibilities and impediments must be strengthened and the supervision of public positions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u290	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u291	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, supervision of public offices must be strengthened and our democracy must be qualified. Otherwise, I would say that, after all, these are crocodile tears that we are watching here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u292	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that in order to take this matter seriously we must effectively look at the question that is put and the doubts that have also been put to the government. therefore that it is surprising and perplexing the final part of Mr António Leitão Amaro's intervention, which seeks to mix all and any matter which, in his view, may, in some way and in a populist way, accamate us on a subject which is particularly clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u294	Like promiscuity!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u295	Mr President, these are examples of different things that are not interconnected, all of which have already been clarified and, quite clearly, based on this House. And what is absolutely clear and is the starting point is that, in fact, the legislation we have, the rules we have on this matter are non-existent, and it is precisely because they are non-existent that there is now a situation in which, if the two opposition parties are seriously and without hypocrisy—and I reiterate, without hypocrisy—they would clearly recognize that the practices in question were socially accepted and often practiced by members of the government, by Members, by politicians of all the parties sitting in this House. That would be the seriousness that has been lacking in this debate and in the previous interventions, the recognition that Portuguese democracy may in fact have a lack of rules that clearly discipline this matter, which, firstly, is emphasized - the Commission which is in operation to strengthen transparency has already covered in its own mandate book, on the initiative of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which has defined that the matter of offers and hospitality should be regulated. And there we put it because we know it's a missing element in Portuguese legislation. Today, the Government, recognizing this need, has adopted a code of conduct that self-engagees the government and will regulate many of the doubts that arose in the past. So, seriously, how can we solve this issue? It's with the data we have on the table. To recognize that there is a work that this Parliament has begun, and very well accompanied would be by the opposition parties if they wanted to live with us and do what other countries, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, have been doing for many years, which is the adoption of codes of conduct that complement the work of the leaders, of the Members, of the members of the local authorities, and which must regulate it. Another thing is to look from here to do a chicana of such order, trying to confuse people as to what is actually being discussed, which is whether or not there was lawlessness in behavior, which, to us, is absolutely unequivocal that clearly was not, in view of what was the social acceptance of these behaviors. They will now ask whether society does not evolve and does not become more demanding with the passing of time. Should we not be able to follow this growing requirement and also change the legislation and codes of conduct? Unhesitatingly, everyone has answered yes and everyone has been available for this debate. So we can do two things: try to qualify for democracy or try to pretend it's an opportunity and throw a harp to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u296	Ah! Only now you've remembered! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u297	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim said now, in a separate section: "Ah, only now they have remembered". Interestingly, this was the first government to adopt this code of conduct applied to its members. I don't remember any of the administrations responsible for the PSD or CDS, even when confronted with similar situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u298	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u299	So once again, in order to defend the transparency and dignity of the institutions, we can all recognize that we will all have failed in the past because the demands of our citizens have increased. Now, there are those who are available to resolve the matter and, in fact, give different data and coordinates now or who just want to make a summer political number, because, effectively, it also works out when there are no ideas, when there are no projects and when we are only able to try to shoot a little sand for the eyes of the Portuguese, which is also a summer option because the sand is also material that occupies us in a part of the summer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u300	Congratulations and good trips!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u301	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation we are now considering and discussing is, of course, a critical and wrong situation, because in public administration there is a need for an attitude of separation between economic and political power and, necessarily, any circumstance which in any way raises any doubt or opens up space to create some suspicion regarding the separation between political and economic power is wrong and is critical. Moreover, this is a circumstance which gives rise to the same appreciation on the part of the CFP, regardless of who is involved and no matter what the situation is. Moreover, this is a note of consistency that we can record at the time we are discussing this because we affirm this regardless of the circumstances and those involved in these situations, because they do not contribute to this necessary separation between the political power and the economic power that is required in public management. Obviously, the debate we are having here today, especially the intention that the CDS and the PSD take part in this debate, does not aim at any kind of accountability that will prevent these situations for the future, at least in a coherent way.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u303	It's more than hurryed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u304	In fact, just a few months ago in this Chamber, the CDS and the PSD understood and stood in a completely different way in the face of a situation where the situation was more serious, in which those involved in that situation assumed responsibilities that were even more serious in the face of a situation of promiscuity between political and executive power and economic power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u305	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u306	When we discussed the situation involving a former finance manager who politically guarded an operation involving the sale of 300 million assets from a bank under State control,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u307	... under the political protection of this former finance manager who then moved away from luggage and luggage precisely for those who were the beneficiaries of this business, PSD and CDS understood that there was no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u308	He's drifting away!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u309	Now, what we have to say is that today, the PSD and the CDS have changed their position relatively a few months ago, but we are not mistaken or naive to believe that the PSD and the CDS have now become firm advocates of separation between economic power and political power. We realize that this happens only through opportunism and with the aim of withdrawing from the discussion of this situation a certain political-party objective in order to somehow weaken the action of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u310	Intellectual dishonesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u311	on our part, we believe that with regard to this particular situation, as we have already said, it is the obligation of the government and those involved themselves to carry out the analysis they have to do and find the appropriate answer to cancel and eliminate all the doubts and suspicions that have been raised in this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u312	Self-criticism!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u313	... so that the performance of their public functions is not suspected and in doubt as to the possible relationship with economic interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u314	Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to point out to Mr António Leitão Amaro that we do not run away from the debates or answers to the questions that are being asked to us. There was, in fact, a three-day delay, and we apologized for that delay even before the honourable Member made his speech... [[PSD protests.]] The answer had already arrived 30 minutes earlier, but therefore there was a three-day delay for which we apologized. That's all I can do right now. The response to the CDS came in time because it was made later, while your PSD had a three-day delay.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u316	But they didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u317	If you replied or not, the information may not be what you thought it should be, but it is the response that the government thinks it should give. On these matters, in recent years, Portuguese society, as to the degree of demand on the conduct of its electors, whether in government or also in the Assembly of the Republic, has evolved and has been increasingly intense, and still well. Many practices and habits that we think are still appropriate and socially accepted have ceased to be over the years. And this level of demand is good and it is important that the political decision-makers, whether elected or Parliament, be those in the government, whether in the authorities, have the ability to correspond, monitor the degree of demand and the changes that are taking place in our society's uses and customs on this matter. That is why for the first time there is a Government of the Republic that adopts a code of conduct. They were just asking why just now. I would like to recall that for the first time not only is there a code of conduct approved by a Government in Portugal, but also for the first time in the Government Programme was also the design of the code of conduct. It's not new! It is a novelty, yes, in the Government Programme, it is a novelty, yes, in Portugal, because it is the first time that there is a government that adopts a code of conduct, which is self-linked, which regulates the conduct of government members and allows for transparency and predictability to the action of government members. Therefore, it is a gain for our action, I do not question the work being done in the Assembly of the Republic, and makes the border areas clear. As for the ladies. State Secretaries, the PSD has now again questioned how many were. We all know that there are three, there are no more than those who are already public. The only question that has really been raised was by the CDS and I will answer right away, but I would like to tell you that Mr. State Secretaries acted in good faith as part of the current practice of many governments in Portugal so far. And although they understand that the acceptance by them of an invitation from an official sponsor of the national selection, taking into account the current practice, was in accordance with the uses and customs, in the face of the doubts raised by public opinion, the doubts raised in Portugal, not only were they prepared to assume the responsibilities as to return it and to bear the costs inherent in that invitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u318	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u319	These three State Secretaries remain in the Government because they have the confidence of their Ministers and they have the confidence of their Prime Minister. All such conduct is legitimate in the light of the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Procedure. The interpretation of social adequacy is evolving and this code of conduct, today, makes these border areas clear. I would like to say to Mr Telmo Correia that, as I said recently, all of these State Secretaries, in fact, all members of the Government, apply, if necessary, the Code of Administrative Procedure and the Criminal Code, so there was no difference between the three, yes, a Minister, that of Foreign Affairs, which, in the public use of the word, made mention of this fact. however, all State Secretaries are subject, when necessary and when applied, to the Code of Administrative Procedure, to the Criminal Code, which is nothing more than what Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs said here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u320	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude, because it has already exceeded far too much time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u321	I also wanted to say that Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs does not directly protect Galp, either the energy sector or the tax courts. Therefore, there is a trial in the courts and this particular government will continue, every day, in government action, to prove transparency and independence vis-à-vis interests. In addition, in the case of the energy sector, against the will of the right, the special rate on the energy sector continues. This is not a government subject to the interests of the energy sector or the economic sector in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u322	Mr. Secretary of State was also present at the Conference of Leaders in which the times were combined. So what I have said recently to the parliamentary groups also applies, because if we do not respect the times, we are harming the operation of the Assembly and having, let us say, a practice that is not totally democratic, because they benefit more than others in relation to those times. Mr Leitão Amaro, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u323	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u324	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u325	Mr President, it is on the conduct of the work and, at the same time, on the request for distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u326	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u327	Mr President, first of all, the PSD Members who asked the questions received the government's non-response not before my inquiry but then, or rather, while I was making the intervention. But by the way, that is not the point. It's just that the document I want to distribute doesn't answer anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u328	You didn't ask any questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u329	This alleged reply says that statements have already been made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u330	Mr President, the distribution will be far-CL.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u331	Who did you get? How much? What kind? Was it food? Was it a trip? Were they tickets? Of what value? Everything remains to be clarified and embarrassment is evident, because, here, there is an unacceptable promiscuity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u332	The Bureau shall, as requested, distribute that document. Mrs. Members, after concluding the debate on travel allegedly paid by Galp to government members, we move on to the next item on the agenda, marking the CFP, which is on professional stages. For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP has decided to schedule this debate because it has understood that it is time to denounce the illegalities that have been committed in the field of professional internships, but it is necessary to go further in the fight against precariousness and, once and for all, to distinguish the stages as a mechanism for entering the labour market of the internships as an instrument to mask unemployment numbers, worsen working conditions and exploit young workers in permanent needs. in recent weeks it has been made public complaints that companies have committed illegal use of access to the profession. I would like to remind you from now on that the CFP, when discussing the legal system of professional orders, put forward a proposal that, in the case of the stages of admission to the orders, there should be compulsory payment of this stage whenever there is paid employment. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u334	This proposal was rejected by PSD, CDS and PS and became a situation in which public money was used to subsidize access to the profession and private jobs. This situation is unacceptable. We also consider it important to mention that today there are thousands of permanent jobs in our country which are supplied through internships, whether unpaid curricula—and in the hotel house this is a reality that goes through all the districts of the country—are professional stages that respond to permanent needs, in which the figure of the vocational traineeship does not exist to allow career and labour market entry but, on the contrary, exists to reduce labour costs and wages for workers. That is why, if we here denounce all the illegalities committed by companies in relation to trainees and demand that these situations be repaired, we also want to say here that we need to go further. However, the CFP has proposed in this House that, where there is a need in companies and public services for the completion of permanent jobs, it cannot be a traineeship contract but that these workers are effectively recruited. This is the commitment of the CFP, which is why we have started this debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u335	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by commending this PCP marking for the relevance of the topic that brings to the discussion this afternoon. Fraud in granting support for professional internships is a problem that certainly does not divide this House, deserves our full attention and, above all, our entire action. I would like to reiterate, on the side of the Socialist Party, the value of the internships for the vocational integration of young people in the labour market on condition these stages are geared towards employment, as the current Government defends, and not being a mere palliative for unemployment statistics, as the previous Government advocated. We directly disagreed with the non-selective increase in active employment policies carried out by the previous Government, which did not permit employability or permeate good practice, from 30 000 in 2011 to more than 70,000 in 2015. The results of this increase are in sight. over the past few years, we live what we can call an absolutely explosive cocktail. It was a cocktail that combined the exponential increase in the stages I mentioned here with the desperate increase in the need for access to the labour market, which was more limited and precarious during right-wing governance, thus exposing workers and trainees to a greater risk of abuse. For several years, in many cases, the only possibility of refusing an invitation to emigration was to accept an internship and this protected the weakest part of the labour relationship, subjecting it to some of the abuses that are unfortunately known today. We know that there are a minority of entrepreneurs who resort to illegality in relation to trainees and their workers, but they are a minority who undermines the dignity of the rights of workers and of all the companies that comply with them. Moreover, in addition to abusing workers, they also abuse taxpayers because they not only violate the rules for public support as they are illegally left with what is not theirs, with what is ours. We therefore need to expand a culture of responsibility in the use of public support, identifying abuses and preventing their recurrence. in this sense, I would like to welcome the immediate determination of the Government, of the Secretary of State for Employment here present, and of the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional) to find out the cases of possible fraud and to act for its resolution. But the Socialist Party does not stay here, the PS is paying attention to this reality and addressing it under a double perspective: that of economic dynamisation and legislative reinforcement to combat abuses on those who work and the operational instruments of those who have to comply with the legislation of those who work, in this case the Working Conditions Authority. at the economic level, at a time when unemployment is in a sustained fall with the current government — and, being still high, it is at least six years old — the possibilities of abuse are mitigated by offering more opportunities for all. That is why we are not only interested in the quantity of employment but also in the quality of employment. Unquality quantity represents a strengthening of inequality in the labour market, it represents a past for which we do not want to return. On the other hand, we are mobilising — and I conclude, Mr President — legislative instruments that strengthen the working dignity. It was the case, very recently, of the law on combating forced labour, which extended the employer's responsibilities in subcontracting and temporary work. The law deserved a noisy opposition from the right-wing benches, but it deserved the clear support of Mr. President of the Republic, and it therefore also divides the parties in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u337	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u338	We are alert, we are on the right path and we will continue to pay attention. Finally, Mr President, we are aware of the precariousness of several workers. We are aware of the abuses committed by some companies, we are aware of the difficulties that trainees have in identifying these abuses and are, above all, committed to the reorientation of employment policies that combat precariousness and...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u339	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u340	... that promote stability and fairer rights, the right to decent work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u341	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Unemployment is a tragedy in any country, but, above all, when it is high, as in the case of young people, it is a tragedy of importance and impact. It is that, when we have an unemployment rate of young people very close to 30 %, it is a whole generation that is at stake in their socio-professional integration, their adaptation to life and their adjustment to the future, also being concerned, and above all, the sustainability of the social state. That is why all instruments that are created or instruments that are robust for the integration of young people are welcome. It is therefore important to point out that the hundreds of thousands of young people who have enjoyed professional training and the hundreds of millions of euros that have been spent in recent years on the completion of these vocational training are, of course, a mirror of a good path that must be followed, because, I repeat, it is essential that the instruments of socio-professional integration of young people are not broken down but instead promote their inclusion. In fact, when I say 'diabolize', I repeat Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, who said 'it makes no sense to diabolize professional stages'. That's it! What we find, however, is that some left, especially the radical left, is in the exercise of the diabolization of professional stages, as if this matter was not important, as if it were not an instrument of social and professional integration of young people and, I repeat, as if they were not of the greatest importance to young people themselves, to families, to the community in general and to the support of the social state. Now, what we notice is that there will be some wrong cases, there will be some cases that are not acceptable. There will be some companies that do not have proper compliance with this issue of professional internships. Better than I would, in fact, respond to the President of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, already appointed by this government, who says: « Does it not seem strange to you that, being a mega-fraud propelled by all the media, the IEFP only has concrete news of three cases? Three cases! I am not saying that, he is the President of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, appointed by this government. But the PSD, in this matter, is not pleasing. If there are wrong cases, detect, report themselves and turn to the right entities. Now, what I think is wrong is what is being done here, in this House, in particular, by the Left Block and the PCP, which have had radical, obstructive, antagonistic behavior in relation to what is a remarkable instrument for promoting the social and professional inclusion of young people, who have very high levels of unemployment, I will even say unacceptable, and that they call into question the future of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u343	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The allegations of the stages that were known this summer, in which the bosses used a public policy to spy on trainees without any kind of scruple, are a case of police. The state let itself lie and closed its eyes. In addition, in recent years, IEFP had already received complaints but did not engage in its supervision and trainees were stolen by entrepreneurs without any principle other than that of exploitation. Therefore, for these specific cases, there is only one reasonable outcome: the bosses must be punished properly and excluded from any public support in the future... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u345	... and to trainees who have been'sold' must be returned the part of the salary that has been stolen from them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u346	But this scandal occurs only because there has been a radical political decision, namely the PSD and CDS, which in the last four years has transformed Portugal into an economy of internships, in which impunity and precariousness have settled as a rule in the labour market with all kinds of illegalities against people. And this is no longer a police case, it's a policy case, and it has to do with us. The State has public employment promotion policies that make sense, but these policies must respect what its own name says, that is to say, they promote employment. And what we know is that this has not happened with the stages financed by the IEFP, which cost millions of euros to taxpayers and the results, in terms of hiring, are a fiasco. According to official data of the last report released by the Government, only 15 % of trainees remained in the same entity without the use of contract support and only 5 % remained in the same entity with an unfinished contract. In other words, with honourable exceptions, the fact is that most Portuguese entrepreneurs have engaged in state-funded internships and, instead of using them for what they are supposed to serve, i.e. being a trampoline for a job situation, have used them to make rotation of precariouss for permanent functions with public funding. This is absolutely unacceptable. The former government was the biggest promoter of this scheme. The previous government exploded more than 60 % of the European funds that were available for active employment policies in one and a half years and were funds up to 2020 to finance this shame for one reason: while transferring resources to entrepreneurs, 72 000 people were removed from unemployment statistics. And that is why we need to stop not only criminal practices, which are police cases, but the fraud in which a stage-based economy has become. The IEFP must have strong action with these complaints, if it is not complicit in this fraud, and we welcome that the IEFP has already announced some measures that may go the right way. The Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) must be able to monitor the false stages and must have the means to do so and the law against the precariousness which this Assembly of the Republic approved in 2013 against false green receipts must apply to cases of false stages covering a working relationship. In addition, there must be a minimum contractual ratio, one in each of the trainees must be hired by the company or then not entitled to public support. Finally, we need a policy of employment that breaks this cycle, that is worthy of that name and that brings us out of this vicious cycle of stages.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u347	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u348	I conclude, Mr. President. This Parliament, contrary to what has happened in the past, has a majority who have committed themselves to combating precariousness and therefore we have the responsibility to turn intentions and proposals into concrete practices that end these frauds and this shame. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u349	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Hope is the last to die. When the PCP requested this schedule we still had a slight hope that they would in fact wish to discuss the question of professional internships without prejudice to the custom, and the same is said about the Left Block. But no, what matters to the PCP and the Left Block is not to discuss the professional stages, what matters is to attack the policies of the previous government, whatever they are. You are not interested in realizing that 67 % of the young people who have completed vocational training have obtained contracts, they have obtained a job within 12 months of the internship.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u351	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u352	Mrs Rita Rato, we know what the Communist Party has done with the numbers over time. Therefore, you excuse me from continuing to slaughter the numbers to make them twist your will. We know that, but you have a prejudice that you cannot overcome. We were hoping that this regrettable example which was denounced during the summer would make it possible to clarify two things, as Mr Soeiro said, and well, that is, what are police cases and that should be treated as such, what are employers who must be persecuted and punished in an exemplary way because, in fact, they commit inexcusable fraud, and what is to be seen as professional internships, which are a form, an instrument, an incentive, very important for young people who have come to suffer from an intolerable unemployment rate and for which this instrument is often the only way they have to achieve social and professional integration. What we would consider to be a sincere and transparent debate is to say that fraud has to be treated as such and, therefore, we are going to demand management, that you support more means to pursue fraud, affecting more means of supervision, through the existing institutes and instruments. But no, you attack the professional stages only because they exist and only because they have been a valuable instrument, I say again, that it has been adopted. And, yes, during the coalition government, European resources were allocated to take away many young people who were unemployed, placing their knowledge, academic duties at the service of society and, very successfully, allowing them to have their first employment contracts. Therefore, we will never be able to understand how you cannot overcome your ideological prejudices and treat what are police cases as police cases and what are policies that have virtues as policies that have their virtues. How can you not make this division that is so important? Oh, my God! On the other hand, with regard to these cases of complaints of fraud, we would like to have heard something more from the Government and the IEFP. It is incomprehensible how, when I came back for a month about complaints, only they tell us that they continue to investigate. We will therefore take advantage of the presence of the Secretary of State in order to obtain an answer, because in the face of these very serious complaints, many suspicions, some announcements and few answers we have addressed, even in August, several questions to the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security with a view to knowing what was being done, whether they were aware of these alleged frauds and what they were doing, because the CDS demands that all responsibilities be cleared and that these frauds do not compromise the importance of the active employment measures that we have always supported and that, Mrs President. Members of the PCP and the Left Block will continue to support. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Margarida Balseiro Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u353	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: From the Greens, I would like to start by telling Mr Adam Silva that we are not diabolical of the stages, but I must also say that I do not understand the fans of the internships, because when what they called active employment policies it is to sum up creating stages to circumvent unemployment figures, he must agree that this is a relatively serious thing. Mr President, it does not sound good to me that I have principles, which you know, in particular, respect for workers and the world of work and the value of the world of work. For you, who have fought for how many roads I do not know for how many attempts to make precarious the labour market in Portugal, it may be understandable that you have had that position. But, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, you can't want to cancel this difference that exists between us. In fact, we assume that internships can be a very important component.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u355	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u356	They can be sure, but it was nothing you did — nothing, absolutely nothing! Because of the stages, you have worked to mask unemployment and, on the other hand, to replace permanent jobs and this is serious, is the mark of precariousness, and that is a commitment that must be made to combat it. With regard to this particular question about internship scholarships with which employers are staying, when public money directed to trainees is taken out, because it has no other name — finally, there is another name that could be used here but I am not going so far, though that is exactly what you mean — by employers, employers, this is serious. We already know some of the measures that the Government has taken with regard to these cases, these frauds in particular, but we must go a little further, Mr Secretary of State, and realize what mechanisms and what measures we can take to prevent these things from happening again. In fact, it's not to avoid, it's to make them not even happen, requiring that they don't happen. What mechanisms do we add for this to happen? Mr. President. — Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The internships have been one of the most important active policies in recent decades, providing hundreds of thousands of young people with support for job integration. When properly calibrated, when used properly, the evidence, both in Portugal and internationally, document well that the stages produce results to gain experience and develop skills, to promote the practical exercise of qualifications, to increase employability and generate opportunities, from then on in the host entity. These are good reasons for valuing the stages and strengthening the guarantee mechanisms that they perform their functions and are properly used. The Government has assumed from the outset that it would make an evaluation of the active policies in force and that it would make changes in the direction of employment and greater selectivity. This evaluation is done, was discussed with the social partners and were already presented in the consultation proposed to strengthen the linkage of internships to employment and to enhance good practices in the use of the measure. The changes will be aimed at strengthening the link between the provision of support and sustainable and quality employment, generated after the end of the internships. The creation of the job premium, the limits on the excessive accumulation of support and the valorisation of applications from companies that have created jobs with the stages they have received are examples of the measures to be taken. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, recent reports and reports on alleged fraud and abuse by some employers have only confirmed the need for more selectivity and much more concretely to improve control mechanisms. On these issues, the Government's position is unequivocal: any practice of companies that configure fraud, abuse or deviate from the defined legal terms is unacceptable and absolutely condemnable, either from the point of view of misuse of public resources, or from the point of view of violating the rights of trainees, and especially serious will be any practices that harm trainees or include any type of direct or indirect coercion or material injury, taking advantage of the fragile position of those seeking an opportunity. There must be zero tolerance in Portuguese society for companies that engage in this kind of behavior and all agents must assume their responsibilities. on the part of the Government, the commitment to strengthen action in this area is a commitment that is assumed. Although there are regular follow-up, audit and inspection actions, it is important to deepen these mechanisms. in the immediate, the PSEI was instructed to give the highest priority to all complaints that exist or arise, but also to actively strengthen contacts at the regional level to signal potential abuses. In addition, an internal audit was also announced to procedures for cases of abuse and fraud, to find out whether they have been properly activated over time and to identify any innovation or reinforcement needs. But regardless of the outcome of the audit, the government will include combating bad practices, fraud and abuse as one of the concerns of the new rules, starting with the positive differentiation of companies that have proven good practices in job creation after the stages, but there will also be a strengthening of prevention mechanisms and combating companies that do not comply, for example, by improving and strengthening communication channels for reporting situations and strengthening the mechanisms for compulsory evaluation by trainees at the stages they have made, safeguarding confidentiality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u358	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u359	In conclusion, I would just say that the transparency and credibility of public support, in particular in such a sensitive and decisive area as support for inclusion in employment, is crucial. The Government will not allow exceptional and localized cases to be confused with the objectives of the measure, with its strategic importance and with the good practices of the vast majority of companies, but will therefore not abdicate the fight against all bad business practices, for the benefit of trainees, for the benefit of the vast majority of entrepreneurs who comply with the rules and, above all, for the benefit of the public interest, which is the promotion of employment, sustainable employment and quality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u360	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: in fact, the internships should be an instrument of entry into the labour market, a moment of contact with the world of work, but they are not. Unfortunately, they are mechanisms that allow companies to form genuine bodies in which a trainee leaves and another trainee enters. It is obvious from the CFP, therefore, that, opportunistically, PSD and CDS did not want to hear, we believe that it is necessary to combat and ensure the fulfilment of the rights of these young people and workers, because they are actually young workers. But you need to go further. In addition to combating fraud and ensuring compliance with the law, it is necessary to ensure that there is no traineeship to replace a permanent job and therefore it is necessary to ensure that a permanent job does not correspond to an internship, however much as it may be, but an effective job and an effective employment contract. So on the side of the CFP, we will continue here. As for the CDS, I would like to say that it was worth marking this debate to distance the one that is a State policy to promote precariousness and guarantee of rights of employment. On the part of the CFP, we will continue to defend employment with rights because there is no democracy without the rights of workers and this issue we are discussing here is a matter of democratic rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u362	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u363	... is the guarantee that a permanent job corresponds to an effective link in any public service or private undertaking and not a internship contract. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u364	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall come to the last item on today's agenda, which consists of votes. Let us begin by voting on draft resolution No 455/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( Chairman of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 458/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Bulgaria ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall also vote on draft resolution No 459 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Switzerland ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now call on Secretary Emília Santos to report and give an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u365	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees refers to the resumption of mandate in accordance with Article 6. the, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Statute of Deputies of Mr Jorge Falcato ( BE ), an electoral circle of Lisbon, ending its mandate Maria Luísa Cabral ( BE ), with effect from 1 September 2016 inclusive. The opinion is in the sense that the honourable Member's return is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-08.u366	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before we close the session, I would like to remind the Members. Members who start plenary meetings for the week starting on Thursday and that parliamentary committees meetings are already in operation, as you know. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 36 minutes.]]
