ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authority officers opening the galleries. Let's start our work with reading the file, so I give the floor to Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and the following initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce working time to 35 hours per week ( ALRAM ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; draft law No 98 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extends the supply of programme services in TDT, ensuring adequate technical conditions and price control ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission ; and Parliamentary inquiry No 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establishment of parliamentary commission of inquiry to the process leading to the sale and resolution of the Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banif ) ( PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ). In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Members, our agenda today consists of four points, one on the East Line, another on the creation of the Children's Observatory, another on the ownership of water resources and finally one on family agriculture in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Let us begin with the appreciation of draft resolution No 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce the public passenger transport service in the East Line throughout its route ( The Greens ). To present the initiative, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Four years ago, on 1 January 2012, the PSD/CDS Government closed passenger transport on the East Line. It was a gross mistake that, along with the closure of the branch of Cáceres, made the District of Portalegre the only one of the country completely beaten by train. from here, of course, serious consequences, such as: loss of population, with worsening depopulation; greater isolation of the district and its populations, either in relation to the country or in connection with Spain, compromising, including tourist potential, particularly with the classification of Elvas as a World Heritage Site and other development potential; difficulty of the Polytechnic Institute attracting students due to lack of mobility; disqualification of mobility in general, including difficulty in accessing key public services, such as hospital. However, in a clearly electoralist logic, the PSD/CDS government has, in full election campaign for the legislature, restored the passenger service on the East railway line, but only with a train on Fridays and Sundays and with the operating deadline only for six months. Moreover, this purely partial replacement represents virtually nothing in terms of the mobility needs of the populations and is a very weak response, because it only binds the Entrance to Portalegre, not following up to Elvas, nor stopping at Bemposta.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u6	The train was stolen from the population by the PSD/CDS government. The Greens now come to Parliament to propose that it be returned to passengers and to the region, with great social, environmental and economic advantages. It should also be noted that the replacement of the passenger service on the East Line does not require prior or extensive investments, since this railway was subject to retraining work about two years ago, and has always maintained the transport of goods. Finally, the Greens Ecological Party welcomes all living forces in the districts of Portalegre and Santarém which today moved to the galleries, representatives of trade unions, of the Polytechnic Institute of Portalegre, of associations of defense of the railway, of environmentalists, of authorships of different organs and parties. This diversity demonstrates the profound relevance of the proposal that the Greens bring today to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u7	For an intervention, Mr Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u8	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my special congratulations in my first speech and wish for the success of this Parliament. In fact, the right over the past four years has done everything in a hurry! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] In a hurry he stopped the retraining works of the East Line; in a hurry he withdrew the passenger train that served the populations; in a hurry he did what he did against the populations. They were four years of long darkness and successive demands of all the municipalities of the district, of all without exception, of any party, of the intermunicipal community, composed of municipalities of all parties and also of the municipality of Abrantes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u9	Including the municipalities of the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u10	in fact, what happened was the withdrawal of services to populations, which was not limited to health services or public school, but was also found in the transport network, which the train served. Four years of claim which, unbelievably, came to a mystery solution: in the full election campaign it was decided to reposition a train and so unusual was the situation that right coalition members made a campaign trip on their own opening trip. In fact, there were even those who said that train was served by hosts, so many were the girls of the coalition worn with ties to Portugal's neck to Front. The strategy found was disastrous! Disaster in the hours, disastrous in the method and puts as justification the unjustifiable service that is provided today to the population. This is because, if we are to analyze the numbers, the numbers that are attributed to a single weekly train by absurd schedules, justify the unjustifiable, which is to keep that train. in fact, what we want are durable solutions that the coalition that ruled us up to the past legislature did not find. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u11	Mr. Deputies, votes in a good legislature for you too. Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u12	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in this problem I would like to highlight two aspects: context and reality. First of all, I would like to greet the authorities present, the President of the Polytechnic Institute of Portalegre ( IPP ) and to address a special word to the other chamber presidents who were involved in this process of the East Line, because in fact they were decisive. This draft resolution is also important to demonstrate the work of the autarchs, the work of political actors and all others for the defence of their region, in particular the President of the Municipal Chamber of Alter do Chão who had, from the first hour, a remarkable work of defense of the East Line, and then this draft resolution is the timely time to mention this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u14	The IPP, the CP, the infrastructures of Portugal, the CCDR of Alentejo ( Commission for Regional Coordination and Development ) were also involved in this process and, contrary to what Mr. Luís Testa said, the PSD was next to that struggle. So the problem was solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u15	Sure! [[PS Protests and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u16	Because what happened was the result...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u17	It was September 25th!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u18	It was not September 25 — this was an important time for the district — but there were many meetings, informals and other formals, both with the Secretary of State and with the CP, which allowed them to achieve that result. This is because, Mr President, what you have left soon was the closure of the East Line.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u19	Well, well! You've got to get high!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u20	When we became subject to the Memorandum of Understanding it is that you have seen your policies, which went exactly that way, in the closure of the East Line. In fact, then the Minister of Public Works, Antonio Mendonça, said in December 2010 that closed railway lines would be explored by private individuals. This is not a statement by the PSD ; it is a statement by Antonio Mendonça, Minister of Public Works of the Time. Of course, the PSD/CDS-PP government has had many problems with the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ...and you had to follow the policies that you left on the ground. It was a task of credibility, of accountability, of assuming the burden that you had left.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u22	Therefore, surely it would not be possible to reverse at the end of two months six years of nonsense that you did. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the PSD and CDS government has achieved was, in fact...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u23	It was September 25th!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u24	On 25 September, I think the focus on that day is important because, in fact, it can be an important moment, in terms of railway accessibility, for the Portalegre district. This is, therefore, the great challenge that...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u25	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u26	... your entire government now has for the future. So what was left was completely different from what you left. You left the East Line to close, to close the passenger traffic. Don't! We opened this door, we responsible the partners, the authorities, the Polytechnic, all the social actors so that, in fact, there was the possibility of increasing this offer and responding to the inhabitants of the Portalegre district. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u27	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to associate ourselves with the concern and proposal presented by the Greens in order to quickly update a passenger transport service, in a minimum register, so let us say, at least, that it gives some dignity to the railway link on the East Line. In any case, I cannot fail to mention and confirm all the suspicions for which the Left Block has been warning about the practice of the previous Government, which in transport has proved to be a government which is not entirely ashamed of any face. With regard to transport, the PSD government / CDS in 2015 did everything wrong, did everything at the last hour, everything to favor private interests...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u29	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u30	...and, in this particular case, to promote your own political and party interests, making what is a public service decision in an electionist maneuver that does not stand in the shame that constituted your political action on the eve of election results. In fact, to update a public transport service with a link at the end of the week to a railway line is to have absolutely no notion of what is to provide a public transport service. And unfortunately, the former Government and the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups have given a very bad image of what is a public transport service, especially a transport that has been increasingly threatened, with regard to its survival, as a strategic essential tool to change the profile of mobility in Portugal in transport, whether they are passengers or goods. And we know that the intention to reactivate at this moment a minimum public transport service in the East Line does not correspond to that rail transport plan which will be discussed here in this House, because, recently, at the initiative of The Greens and the Left Block, a resolution was adopted which recommends the Government to approve, still this year, a national railway plan with the aim of giving consistency and sustainability...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u31	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u32	... the reactivation and use of rail transport such as the transport of the future, either in terms of passengers or in terms of goods. It is clear that we will have to face the opposition of the interests of those who defend road transport as the only alternative for passenger transport...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u34	I will finish now, Mr President. As I was saying, we will have to face the opposition of interests that defend road transport as the essential means of transport of passengers and goods and, of course, also the PSD and the CDS, which are clearly linked parties and dependent on the defense of these interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u35	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to start with a previous note, to tell Mr. Heitor Sousa that the only interest that the CDS and this bench defend is the public interest,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u37	...is the country's interest, balanced accounts and that protect taxpayers and the nation's best interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u38	Ferrostaal say so!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u39	Therefore, I cannot understand, although you are not the author of the project, what you really want. The previous government made a Strategic Transport Plan. And you know — you have been here — that the Socialist Party, as always, has never been able, has never had the competence, courage or wisdom to make a strategic transport plan. But if they have it now, show it! If you have it now, show it to you. Therefore, in the absence of a strategic transport plan, there is nothing to criticize the previous or existing one. It is clear that our government has ruled until the last day, and I know that we have a government supported by the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens, which in four months has destroyed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u40	Four months? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u41	Build, zero! [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] On this matter, what the previous government did was what it did in a number of other lines: a cost/benefit study presented in the Strategic Plan—and we are talking here about a line that cost 1, 2 million and served 28 000 people—and, in many lines, for many solutions, it called civil society and found public and private partners to ensure that the service continued to exist, serving exactly the populations, as happened here in the case of Portalegre, whether the GNR, the GNR School of Practice, the Polytechnic Institute. And for this, he also had the support and collaboration of the authorities, who, by the way, understood the need for cooperation, the need to ensure public service, the need to be reliable partners to the government, which I have never seen in the Socialist Party, or in the parties on the left. Until I was expecting this draft resolution to be on your line, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia — I was still waiting for it to be —... [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] ...but I'll be here to see if that project comes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u42	And you have a problem with that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u43	But now let me give you a suggestion: instead of making recommendations to mark the parliamentary agenda, if you can — I know you can't get everyone together in the same room, and you can't all talk together — it's hard to talk to the Socialist Party's bench, the government party that you support, to solve these problems once and for all? Oh, my God! Does it cost anything, instead of making draft resolutions? Oh, my God! [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u44	No, no, but the honourable Member decides! Make up your mind!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u45	The honourable Member now decides! Take it! It belongs to the government, it assumes its responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u46	to the Government? Oh, my God! Who belongs to the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u47	Mrs Deputy, as Mr Heitor Sousa has said, has presented here a project to study a national railway plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u48	Do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u49	If you want me to tell you, Madam Member, I think a national railway plan deserves to be discussed, and here we are to discuss it. He's got it — he's got it! — the agreement of the Socialist Party. But what are you waiting for? Oh, my God! Make the national railway plan there,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u50	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u51	...where you include these and other lines...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u52	You wanted to be spared!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u53	...and here we'll be making sensible decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u54	Do it, do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u55	Now, Mr President, and with this ending, my request is that you, instead of destroying, and I know that they are much more cut for it, they rule, build anything and serve the people. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u56	Mr Ramos has the floor for an intervention now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the citizens, the autarchs, the institutions of the District of Portalegre, but also the district of Santarém, who are here today to attend the discussion that the CDS would not want to be done in this Assembly of the Republic, as we have just heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u59	The Portalegre district lacks a set of infrastructures that promote its development and enable it to cope with a set of problems that are an obstacle to this same development. This district, being one of the most impoverished in the country, has remained in the oldest district group. The Portalegre district is not condemned to this situation and in time it was even a district with a considerable level of industrialization. This is a district that awaits the realization of significant projects and some of a structural nature. Among these projects are the barrier of Pisão, the barrier of Abrilongo, already built but not functioning, the cross-border railway links and, in particular, also in terms of road mobility, the bridge in the Sever River and the conclusion of the IC13 and IP2. Among the infrastructures of a structural nature, we must not leave the rail network out of the way, in particular its contribution to the integral development of the territory, to the establishment of populations and to the promotion of combating desertification and development.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u61	The railway connections of the Portalegre district were losing their connections, namely the cross-border links, either by the link between Elvas and Spain, by the East Line, but also by the connection between Beirut, in the Marvão municipality, and Spain, in the branch of Cáceres, also this disabled.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u63	A territory with strong social and cultural links to neighbouring Spanish territory has weak mobility links, both road and rail. The East Line was closed in 2011. The PCP Parliamentary Group has accompanied this problem with concern and, of course, has expressed it, as it did in 2011 itself, in the discussion of the State Budget for 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u64	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u65	The demonstration that railway connections are necessary and certainly the pre-election period determined the resurgence of connections on specific days and only between Abrantes and Portalegre. The PSD and CDS, by the way, only remembered the populations two weeks before the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u67	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u68	The CFP defends, as a principle, the maintenance, recovery, re-qualification and modernisation of the national rail network, adapting it to the needs of the populations and to the comprehensive development of the country. For the Portalegre district, still in the last legislative elections, the CDU included in its electoral commitments the reactivation of the transport of passengers and goods on the East Line, the rehabilitation and rehabilitation of the Cáceres branch and the link between the Cáceres branch and the East Line, passing through the industrial area of Portalegre. Thus, the PCP Parliamentary Group accompanies the concerns brought here by the Greens Ecological Party, which maintains the links already restored, finding solutions to enable the proper functioning of a passenger service in connection with both the city of Portalegre and Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u69	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u70	In conclusion, Mr President, we also follow the proposal for a precise diagnosis of the conditions of links and investment needs for their proper functioning in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u71	For a second speech, Mr Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Just to say and conclude that the Members of the PSD do not even take responsibility for their own decisions, neither for those who consider them bad, nor for those who consider them good. Well, you were responsible for eliminating passenger transport on the East Line. That decision was yours! It's yours, it's your signature and it's yours! Just as it was your decision to restore passenger transport on the eve of elections on a weekly train — something unusual, something never seen, « only for English to see», only for the voter to see! And that is why we are, in politics, as in life! That is why we are and we cannot be in favour of this practice. in fact, when we aim to defend the populations intransigently, we cannot use any juggling and help ourselves from their vows on the pretext of anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u73	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u74	I beg your pardon, Mr President, will you allow me to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u75	On the conduct of the work, honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u76	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u77	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u78	Mr President, I would like to ask, if possible, that the services distribute to the House the news of the media, and there are several at that time, of December 2010, with statements by Minister António Mendonça, who said, making a history, that the Government had already closed 144 km of railways, which would increase to 597 km the route that would be left without regional services. Therefore, in 2010...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u79	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish. What you have requested will be distributed, as long as you arrive at the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u80	... that is what the government intended to do in terms of rail services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u81	Now, yes, for an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Well, we just needed a competition here now between the forces that have alternated in the government on who has closed more railway lines.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u83	But now the gentlemen are there! Now, no problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u84	There have been many, many, many, as the Greens have well denounced! But, Mr. Hélder Amaral, you have to take an answer, don't you? Oh, my God! So you're afraid to vote on the Greens draft resolution? Oh, my God! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Didn't you want to be confronted with a Greens draft resolution, which brings a solution to the East Line? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u85	I'm waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u86	Are you scared? Oh, my God! Would you like some backstage meetings? Don't! The Greens will force you to vote and take a position on this. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Then, Mr President, I would like to tell you the following: whoever defends the interests of the people does not vote for the abandonment of certain regions, as you have done, withdrawing a wide range of public services, including, in particular, the railway service, which is so lacking in the population. Mr. PSD said that the situation had been resolved. Sir, let's put our feet on the ground! [[Protests by PSD MP Crispo.]] Oh, now you make a sign saying no! It is that you have made an errorful speech and to the many it seemed. You spoke in the resolution of the problem and I wanted to ask you a question. The living forces of the region, of which you have spoken, who have fought for an effective resolution of the situation, many of them are here today. You know why? Because they understand that the solution is not found, that what exists is useless! Therefore, Mr President, as the Greens have mentioned in their initial speech, we must put back the movement of passengers on the East railway line.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u87	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u88	Finally, Mr President, saying that no major investment is necessary, it is not because of the lack of passengers or the potential to gain more passengers and boost human development in that region, but only because of the political will! It failed with PSD / CDS, the contribution of The Greens is so that it will not fail now. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u89	And there are no elections in 15 days!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u90	Ended discussion of draft resolution No 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), we move on to the general debate of Bill No 346 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of the Children's Observatory ( ALRAM ). Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 25 years have passed since the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but the fulfilment of the rights enshrined in that Convention remains a mirage for most children in this country. Child poverty is a reflection of economic precariousness and austerity. This situation has become much worse with the troika government: the poverty risk rate has risen to 28%; in particular child poverty has increased; 500 000 families have lost their family allowance; 120 000 children need food aid to escape hunger; half of the active population is unemployed; most of the unemployed have children; 700 000 unemployed do not have access to any unemployment benefit. In 2014 a mercy from Lisbon made the funerals of six abandoned children, whose bodies no one claimed. This image of five boys and a girl who died alone on the street, abandoned, well illustrates the impact of austerity policy...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u93	... and also shows the social sensitivity of the previous government, so proclaimed by the PSD and CDS banks. It is clear here that they were able to allocate social support to the mercy, in particular the mercy, which was responsible for the funerals, but they removed social support, destroyed essential jobs and public services that would contribute so that the lives of these children would not have been lost. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u94	Extreme cases, such as the previous one, or the situation of children kept at kindergartens from 6 hours to 22 hours, which is the period necessary for parents to seek their livelihood, fully justify the creation of this Children's Observatory. This bill originated in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, Region which was reported a few years ago by the sexual exploitation that some children were subjected there — a sort of offshore pedophilia, which was tolerated for a long time by the various regional authorities. After a period of great influx of European funds, poverty levels have decreased, but once again, Madeira is again in the first position in poverty and unemployment, at the country level, as a result of the dumping of these Community funds into investments which have been widely viewed but which most of them lacked very little. The policy followed, for decades, focused on concrete, an electoralist and spending policy, guided by private interests, with the lobby of the construction ahead, led by the all-powerful Jaime Ramos, was a policy without a vision of the future, as attested to by the current high levels of unemployment, political which had as interpreters not only the former President of the Regional Government but also the current, who, for 20 years, presided over the destinations of the city of Funchal. Poverty, the impoverishment of the Autonomous Region continues to be the great bet of the current Regional Government, since it maintains policies of austerity...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u95	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u96	I shall conclude briefly, Mr President. As I was saying, the current regional government maintains austerity policies, despite the economic and financial assistance programme that had ended in the previous year, it refuses to pay a regional pension supplement for the elderly and, in relation to the national minimum wage, it added only 2%, when in the Azores the increase is 5%.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u97	I'm sorry, but you really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u98	In conclusion, Mr President, welcoming this initiative, which has all the relevance and which originated in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, by the CFP Parliamentary Group. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u99	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are discussing today — that of the protection of children — is a matter that leaves no one indifferent and that permeates all sectors of civil society and all political quadrants, although sometimes with different views. The reality underlying the proposed law we are now discussing is a hard, difficult reality, which must be constantly combated, but it is certain that it is not only important to legislate, but also, above all, to guarantee the conditions for the exercise of the rights in question. Having said this, focused on children and aware of the need to continue to work in the defence of their best interests, it is important to remember that, in addition to child poverty and the scourge it represents, the sexual exploitation and abuse of children is undoubtedly one of the worst forms of violence, whose direct and indirect consequences, immediate or mediated, lasting and permanent, affect, cross-sectionally and irremediably, the whole society. I read some days ago a phrase that remained in my memory and that is of all relevance in this debate and which I therefore reproduce here: each excluded child represents a lost opportunity; each excluded child therefore compromises the future of society. I think we should all keep that sentence. Portugal has never been exempt from the most varied international and European commitments since the 1989 United Nations Convention, the latest Lanzarote Convention or the Framework Decision on the fight against child pornography. However, it is known that, regardless of national and international efforts and commitments, child poverty, sexual exploitation and abuse against children continue to constitute, worldwide, one of the most heinous forms of threat and violation of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : According to UNICEF, the so-called "sex industry" exploits about 2 million children annually; more than 1 million images from 10 000 to 20 000 children who are victims of sexual abuse still circulate on the Internet. Few of these children have been identified and others are anonymous, probably abandoned, as well as still victims of abuse. Looking at the national reality and referring to the data in the Annual Internal Security Report, we found that from 2012 to 2013 there was a significant increase in the number of crimes of this nature and that, unfortunately, from 2014 to 2015, this trend has not reversed, having increased even further. In view of the plight of the numbers and the commitments made, we cannot fail to recognize the goodness of the initiative under discussion. But we must also admit that in the last two years we have taken long steps to prevent this tragic phenomenon. I am talking about the action of the previous Government, for example, regarding the National Plans of Prevention and Combating Trafficking in Human Beings and Domestic Violence or the revision, on the one hand, of the law of adoption and, on the other, of the Law of the Child Protection Organization or of the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger. in this chapter, I wanted to highlight the creation of the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, designed to strengthen their capacity to intervene and, as well, to run, early and especially preventively to situations of violence against children and young people. For the most important thing here — and I am about to finish, Mr President, before you warn me of it — I would also like to recall that the previous Government was preparing for, after the financial emergency, the 4. o is 5. the steps of the family allowance, cut in 2010 by the previous Government of the PS, an option that also reflects on the subject we discussed. Finally, just one note: attentive to the discussion in question, perhaps it is to equalize the inclusion of a UNICEF representative in Portugal in the composition of the Observatory, which we should discuss, in the field of expertise, but which I would like to leave now registered. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u101	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All children must be guaranteed the right to protection and special care, health and education, housing, security, clothing, the right to social dignity, love and affection. Over 25 years ago, Portugal ratified the International Convention on the Rights of the Child and, despite the legal validity of these fundamental rights, the daily life of hundreds of thousands of children in our country is marked by the denial of rights. UNICEF data indicate 2, 8 million Portuguese at risk of poverty, of which more than 640 000 are children and adolescents. The higher rate of poverty or social exclusion took place among children and minors, reaching one in every three children, a reality that is inseparable from the options of PSD and CDS, which as a government in the past four years have imposed cuts in wages, pensions and social benefits— unemployment allowance, family allowance and social income for insertion— leaving many thousands of children unprotected. A government that promoted unemployment and impoverished families, which attacked the social functions of the State, limiting and degrading access to education and health, with particular impact on the most deprived children. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There is hunger in children and schools, because there is hunger in Portuguese families, because there is unemployment, precariousness and low wages, because the net incomes of more than 700 000 workers, who earn the minimum wage, keep them close to the poverty threshold, because more than 1, 2 million workers earn less than 600 € net per month, because more than half of the workers in unemployment do not have social protection. It is the reality of thousands of families, to whom it has been difficult, if not impossible, to guarantee the basic needs of children. It is urgent to break with the impoverishment and degradation of the living conditions of families, which have pushed so many children into poverty and social exclusion. The fight against poverty and social exclusion is inseparable from a more general path of economic growth, of valuing work and workers, of a policy of increasing wages and pensions, of greater justice in the distribution of wealth and raising the living conditions of the people. But it is also essential to respond already to situations of shortage felt by thousands of families. We therefore welcome the initiative under discussion, adopted unanimously in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, on a proposal from the CFP, which aims to respond to the lack of data to analyse and know more deeply the situation of Portuguese children as well as the fulfilment of their economic, social and cultural rights. We consider it important to have a permanent and continuing institutional space of analysis on children and on the impact of public policies on their daily lives. The proposal under consideration is a contribution to a greater path of progress and social justice. And the PCP will always be present in the way of defending the rights of these children and in ensuring their dignity, in the law as in life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u103	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Before I begin my speech, I would like to point out that it is perfectly regrettable that we are trying to use this moment to deny a region, rather than to contribute to a serious discussion on the issue here, which is the question of children's rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u105	The proposed law now under consideration is an initiative, as has already been mentioned, of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which proposes the creation of a Children's Observatory. First, we stress the unanimous approval of this diploma in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, a vote which demonstrates the healthy consensus on issues such as the rights of children, in which all parties must converge and do not diverge. The discussion of this proposal has several merits. Firstly, it allows us to draw attention to the problems of children who are often "invisible" in political discourses and in social communication. currently in the European Union, about 25 million children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, which means that more than one child in four is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Statistical data show that, even before the financial crisis, data and levels of child poverty were already unacceptablely high. We therefore need more initiatives to put on the agenda in this House the problems of children in general and children at risk in particular. in the last legislation, the PSD Parliamentary Group presented several initiatives aimed at deepening the protection of children and families and promoting birth. Our country has several public and private structures which deal with this problem and which play an extraordinary daily role in a cause as noble as this one, in safeguarding and protecting the rights and interests of children. Between 2008 and 2012 the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion increased in Europe by almost 1 million. All information and all indicators are important so that the Member States of the European Union can achieve the poverty reduction objective of the Europe 2020 strategy. in the same way that we only live once, children have one chance to develop themselves and be happy. I finish my speech, quoting Nelson Mandela: « There is no more clear revelation of the soul of a society than the way it treats its children». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u106	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This diploma is a great opportunity to revisit what was the greatest attack in Portugal in the past four years at the basis of family balance. over the past four years we have seen the implementation by a right-wing government of social policy in line with the needs of the country, with families, with children, with the very indications of international entities such as the European Council, the United Nations Convention or even UNICEF. in this context, the situation of child poverty in Portugal is so worrying that I believe that the debate should emerge from the conventional discussion on poverty and anchor, perhaps, in an effective dialectic of the children's human rights that were withdrawn over the last four years by the PSD government / CDS-PP. [[PSD protests.]] in fact, it was found that the PSD/CDS-PP coalition was disastrously effective in dismantling public family support policies, a policy and social support building built for decades by different governments. Let us, then, see the facts, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in 2012 there were already 560 000 children at risk of poverty and in 2014 there were already 640 000 children. In 2011 the risk of poverty in children was set at 22 %, but it would be 33 % if transfers of social benefits had not occurred, i.e., the risk of child poverty was reduced by 11 percentage points. But even looking at this evidence, the PSD/CDS-PP government started a hell of a path against the social benefits of support to the family. It is noted that between 2011 and 2013 186,000 individuals were excluded from the social income of insertion, i.e. 62,000 per year. Over the same period, 40 % of public expenditure on social income for inclusion was withdrawn — from EUR 520 million to EUR 315 million. The most abrupt and profound fall of the family allowance occurred, precisely between 2011 and 2012,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u108	This was decided in October 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u109	... with a reduction of 37 % compared to the largest increase between 2008 and 2009. Between 2012 and 2013, the value paid by the State to children with social income of insertion dropped from 95 € to 53 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u110	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u111	And from 2012 onwards, as if this were not enough, for families to have access to this social benefit, the value of real estate decreased from €100 000 to €25 000, excluding thousands of families of this system. Now, even in 2013 of about 800 000 unemployed who existed in Portugal only half had access to social benefits. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the former PSD / CDS-PP colloquium, let me tell you that this is not fiction, that this was not the work of the Divine Holy Spirit. This had a signature and was the chance of the PDS / CDS-PP coalition that created this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u112	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unfortunate that Mr Carlos Pereira's intervention has called for situations of reducing the availability of public funding for children. In fact, there were some cuts, there was some reduction, but what is extraordinary is that, in the middle of this whole list, you did not have the courage to apologize to the country, because in October 2010 VV. They cut, as they had never seen, the family allowance of Portuguese children, leaving out of this allowance about 500 000 children and cutting 250 000 000 € of what was the family allowance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u114	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u115	That is a fact, and you ought to blame me and apologize to the Portuguese children and families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u116	We move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 186/ XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAA ). To present the bill, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ) which aims to carry out a new review of the law establishing the ownership of water resources, because they consider that « Law No 54 / 2015 of 15 November 2015 in the process of recognition of private ownership on public beds and margins, does not take into account the specificities of the region in this matter » and that the same « does not coadvant in its terms and purposes, with the autonomy of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, in particular with respect for the regional public domain and the competences of the Region on it, as enshrined in the Political and Administrative Statute, in particular in Articles 22. o is 57. o » — I have just mentioned the statement of reasons for this initiative. The seriousness of the topic requires a comprehensive view, far from any political-party dispute, so that no situation is neglected, recognizing the need for clarification of the application of this diploma in the autonomous regions. however, it is important to remember that this bill entered the Assembly of the Republic on 6 November 2013, not taking into account the amendments that subsequently occurred in Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November 2013. The fact is that this law was, however, changed twice: a first time by Law No 78 / 2013 of 21 November, and a second by Law No 34 / 2014 of 19 June, which removed the imposition of any time limit for those who intend to obtain recognition of their property on parcels of beds or Sunday margins. Therefore, given that these legislative amendments are not reflected in the text of the initiative under discussion, the ALRAA proposal should be adjusted in the light of the legislative amendments in the meantime. in these circumstances, recognizing the need for clarification of the application of this regime in the autonomous regions, the PSD Parliamentary Group submitted a request for a discharge to the Commission, without voting for 90 days, to clarify the application of this regime to the autonomous regions and to adapt the articulate, with a proposal to draft the current law we hope to have the acceptance of the other parliamentary groups. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u118	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In October 2013 the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores unanimously approved this bill amending Law No 54 / 2005. I would therefore like to begin by stressing that it was on 8 November 2013 that this bill entered this House of the Republic, with a requirement for the adoption of the urgency process, but we are only here today to discuss it. It is also important to point out that already after entering the Assembly of the Republic it was approved new legislation in 2013 and in 2014 the proposals submitted by the Region were never considered in 2013. However, despite all this situation, in some way, the clarity of the discussion of the proposal, we believe that nothing prevents it from being discussed and approved and that, after that, it becomes specialized, it is appreciated and evaluated the consultation of its text, with the current wording of Law No 54 / 2005. in our understanding, it will be the right thing to do, considering that this delay in nothing is due to the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores. However, Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November 2005 in connection with the process of recognition of private property on plots of public beds and margins and its subsequent amendments did not take into account the biophysical, geographical and social characteristics of the Autonomous Region of the Azores in this matter. This Act, in addition to not taking into account the specificities and nature of an island territory, does not, in its terms and purposes, respect the heritage autonomy of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and, in particular, the regional public domain and the competences of the Region on it, as enshrined in the Political and Administrative Statute. In addition, it should be recalled that Law No 2 / 2009 of 12 January establishes the shared management of inland and territorial waters of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. This bill guarantees three fundamental aspects. First, it unequivocally enshrines the regions with ownership of the regional public water domain, as well as with powers identical to those exercised by the State. Secondly, it is worth noting that in the regions, not only the land traditionally occupied by the crest of the cliffs, as the Law No 54 already provided, but also, taking into account the specificities of the islands, the land located on the shores of the waters of the sea may be considered private property. Finally, this proposal also guarantees the allocation of powers to regional legislative assemblies to regulate all aspects that need to be developed on regional water resources, and they will certainly, and in their own interest, value and respect the sensitive nature of these territories. Dear Mr. President, dear Mr. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I call on all of you to clarify, without any doubt, the competence of the regions in the management of the water public domain and to conclude their text and to approve it without waiting for another three years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u120	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that, without calling into question the statutory presumption of the dominance of the beds and margins of the waters of the sea, of navigable and floating waters, the legislator recognized the possibility of individuals proving their right of ownership on plots of these beds or margins. Moreover, Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November introduced innovations in this area, in particular with regard to clarifying the subject matter of the recognition of private property the judicial decision and establishing a deadline for that purpose. More recently, it was approved by this House Law No. 34 / 2014, which, recognizing the difficulty in collecting the evidence required for the recognition of private property of beds or margins of navigable or floatable waters, established the possibility of owners of the right of ownership on parcels of such land, within the circumstantialities referred to in the law, may, at all times, establish judicial actions for the recognition of their rights. Now, the diploma in question today, Bill No 186 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ), intends to amend Law No 54 / 2005 in order to strengthen the powers of the Autonomous Regions in matters relating to the ownership of water resources, in particular through the status set out in Article 6 ( 1 ). that of the same Law, which states that the public domain of the lake and river belongs to the State or, in the Autonomous Regions, to its region. Therefore, it wishes the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores to comply with Law No 54/2005 with the region’s capital autonomy, in particular with respect for the regional public domain and the region’s powers over it, as set out in the Political-Administrative Statute, proposing, inter alia, that the right of preference of autonomous regions be recognised in cases of alienation of any private plots of public beds or margins be recognised. It also proposes the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores to regulate the process of recognition of private property on public beds and margins in their territories. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS-PP fully respects the autonomy of the regions and believes that the specifics of the region should be recognised and respected. On this same subject, the CDS-PP of the Azores presented, at the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, a draft resolution aimed at setting up a possible committee to assess the implementation of these matters that we are dealing with today, as I said, with the specificities of the Region. We therefore have nothing to do with it and, respecting the proposed legislative amendments, we will vote in favour of this bill. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u122	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a bill by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores on the water public domain. We understand and recognize the specificities of the autonomous regions in this area. The coexistence, the historical and cultural relationship with water, the sea and coastal experiences are part of the daily lives of these populations. This is a reality that must be present, which cannot be ignored and which should be considered in the treatment of water management issues. However, the proposal under discussion addresses issues of great complexity, which require reflection beyond the situations of the autonomous regions and which have implications at the national level. We respect the autonomy of the autonomous regions, but there are aspects that, because of their consequences and the principles we also defend, require an analysis of this national perspective, these aspects that also raise serious reservations. We do not only refer to a few amendments which are contained in this initiative and which have been amended in the meantime. The proposal, in our perspective, also needs a greater balance weighting on the role of the different levels of administration and also taking into account some proposals that subaltern or collide with the competences that are, or should be, of the municipalities. We also point out that in Article 12. the, whose proposed formulation points to the elimination of privatization of margins, beaches and bridges of public domain, which, in our view, presupposes conditioning or even the impediment to access to sea beaches, on the limit, legalizes the fence of beaches and allows itself to speculate with these terrains. We completely reject this perspective and, including, there have already been examples in our country of access limitation, which we also completely refuse. We defend that all people have the right to enjoy the benefits of water in their various aspects, and it is up to the State to guarantee the social and environmental functions of water, in a context of democratic management and participated from water resources, rejecting any path, any solution that goes through mercantillization, by obtaining profits at the expense of an essential resource for life, which is water. Thus, the State must be the fundamental part in ensuring access to water, without exception, for all citizens. This is the fundamental issue to be considered in any discussion on this vital resource for all human beings on our planet, whose value is priceless. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u124	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u125	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u126	Mr President, it is to request the distribution of documents relating to the rejection of the urgency of the discussion of Bill No 186/ XII ( 3 ). ( a). The question of urgency was raised here by Mrs Lara Martinho, but she did not mention — and I think it is good to record this House — that the urgency was rejected by unanimous opinion of the Committee on the Environment and Planning of the Territory. So I wanted you to do my best to have these documents distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u127	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. They'll be distributed. The Bureau no longer registers to intervene on Bill No 186 / XII ( 3 ). ( a). We move on to the last point of our agenda today, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No. 323 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — I have established a family farming support scheme in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ). Mr João Azevedo Castro, of the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No. 323 / XII ( 4. ( a ), from the initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, aims to establish a system of support for family farming. The Azores are known and recognized by the natural landscape, terrestrial and marine biodiversity and environmental preservation, resulting in an appreciation of the Azorian products. Agriculture is of central importance, both economically and socially, to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, imposing measures to reduce its difficulties, making it more attractive to combat rural desertification. The United Nations General Assembly has already recognized the contribution of family agriculture and small farmers to food and nutrition security, to better management of natural resources and the environment and to poverty eradication in the world. It even challenged countries for the establishment of public policies that promote the sustainable development of family-based agricultural production systems, encouraging the participation of farmers' organisations and the awakening of civil society awareness to the importance of supporting family farming. Family farming is understood as small agricultural activity, consisting of small and medium-sized farms, with the use of predominantly family labour, which can play an important role in the sustainability and diversification of activity, as well as in reducing unemployment. Açorian livestock has the value of 248 763 in its actual cattle for 13,154 farms, with a labour force of 27,702 people, of which 92, 9 % is family type labour. They integrate the Azorian agriculture 92 % of individual producers, corresponding to the family farming population 17 % of the resident population, being significant the percentage of family aggregates who claim to obtain income exclusively from agricultural activity, contextualizing the use of an essentially family labour. It is in this framework that the importance of family agriculture, in an ultraperipheral region such as the Azores, assumes particular importance, in order to stimulate its development, reducing the difficulties for those exercising it. This bill was supported by all parties in the Azores Parliament, as well as by the Standing Committee on Natural Resources and the Environment of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Its approval recognizes a reality that it is important to consider, contributing to its dignity and allowing many Azorians and Azorians to find, too, a way to improve the incomes resulting from the exercise of this activity. [[P.S. and P.P.P. Mr António Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u129	Mr António Ventura, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are speaking today of a proposal which has been adopted unanimously in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and which comes to this House for approval. It's a contribution, but it's not all. And since we are talking about family farming, we need to understand what is happening in the Azores and we need to understand what is missing and that it has not been done by a PS government that has been ruling for 20 years and that does not allow farmers and their associations to have sufficient knowledge to claim, to propose, to have a dialogue at the same level. The PS, which has been in government for 20 years, does not monitor training prices, does not accompany markets, does not have prospective studies, does not know how much it costs to produce 1 litre of milk or 1 kg of meat and therefore in the Azores is governed by the blind. But all of this could have a different contour and everything could be different if the PS in the Azores had accepted three times a proposal from the PSD that allowed to implement a price observatory, i.e. to understand how prices are formed, who is left with the « lion's slice ». Because the principle is simple: you cannot act on what you do not know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u132	And there is a lack of knowledge about such an important sector, which reaches nine islands of the Azores and supports the economy, such as agriculture. Therefore, it is important that in the Azores we have the ignorance of not having knowledge, or that in the Azores we create dependence. That is how it is, indeed, happening. Three times the PSD presented a draft resolution and for three times the PS led this diploma,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u134	... that is to say, it does not allow price formation in the Azores to be followed. We do not have an agricultural regional policy, because it falls on the basis of all knowledge. We have a secretary of agriculture which, alone and exclusively, distributes money to farmers, and European money. This is very little, that is nothing for a region whose economic base is indeed the agricultural economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u136	But we are already used to the PS having no strategy, because the PS, whether there or there, in the Azores, in 20 years, whether it is here, on the continent, when it governs, always lacks the strategy. There's no strategy! The PS governs for day to day, for immediateism. The PS governs by throwing money into trouble. And, more seriously, the PS governs by throwing the problems forward, compromising the new generations by imposing their charges. Therefore, when the PS governs, whether in the Azores or on the continent, what it does is compromise the future of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u137	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u138	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. in a region that lacks specific attention, with territorial and economic idiosyncrasies, there are fundamental contributions that promote its cohesion and meet the needs of the population living in the Azores. The NAP would like to stress that contributions to support for family agriculture should favour and enhance food sovereignty, not only from the territory of the Azores but also from the mainland. However, it is time for Portugal to definitely encourage organic production. For the NAP it is important for agricultural practices to be ethically responsible, environmentally sustainable and therefore support should affect and encourage this way of doing and knowing agriculture. These two dimensions, both food sovereignty and organic production, should be the guiding principles of agriculture in Portugal and should increasingly deserve attention in the implementation of agricultural policies. The present proposal for a law of the institution of a family farming support scheme in the Autonomous Region of the Azores deserves proper follow-up from the NAP, considering the positive content described therein. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u139	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The importance of small agricultural production in the family context in the Autonomous Region of the Azores is an undeniable fact. It is consensual that the essential structure of agricultural production — the basis of the regional economy — is made up of small farms both on the agricultural surface and in terms of the value of their production. Family farming understood as the small agricultural activity that employs, above all, the labour of the various members of the same family can and should play an essential role in food security in the socially useful economic development, in the sustainability and diversification of agricultural activities and in reducing unemployment. In addition, it has an irreplaceable role in the maintenance and defence of the rural world and in the diversification of crops and takes particular importance in the increase in traditional agro-food productions, in the supply of fresh food in the local and regional markets, in agricultural diversification, in the defense of biodiversity and the environment, in the reduction of the use of plant protection products, in the increase of self-consumption and in the reduction of external food dependence. however, the income of these producers has been reduced by means of a multiplicity of factors, where the cost of production factors, fuels, energy, water, increased by the unsustainable increase in tax burden and compulsory contributions and excessive bureaucracy, among other aspects, is the situation that is all the more serious as the Azores are the region of the country where there is a higher percentage of family aggregates who claim to obtain income exclusively from their own farm. Also high unemployment in the region has pushed numerous families for precarious subsistence, resorting to small agricultural activity, adding to the importance of this sector for the Azores. The liberalisation of agricultural products markets, the European neoliberal agricultural policy in Portugal — and also in the Azores — had an extremely negative effect on the incomes of small producers, disincentived production, pushing many farmers to abandon activity by expanding rural exodus and desertification. The small farmers were also hard hit by the programme of blind and brutal austerity that hit the Portuguese, only in a way aggravated by the uncertainties and difficulties specific to their own activity. But above all, they have still been subjected to a brutal increase in compulsory contributions to tax and social security. In particular in the 2013 State Budget, the previous Government amended the VAT scheme for small farmers by eliminating VAT exemption in transactions and the provision of agricultural services. Compulsory contributions to social security have also suffered huge increases that now cover up to the funds received as grants for Community investment and participations. These problems stem from the continued fall in the number of agricultural producers in the country and in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, discouraging the existing ones and demotivating, when not truly blocking, the entry into the activity of new and young farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u141	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u142	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The social and economic importance of family agriculture in a region such as the Azores fully justifies measures to reduce its difficulties and to increase this type of activity, making it more attractive and dynamic for new generations and thus also combating rural desertification. This is the objective of this initiative, proposed, in fact, in the Regional Assembly for the representation of the CFP Parliamentary Group and which here will deserve our full support. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u143	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today in this House to discuss family farming once again. thus, a bill that aims to establish a special contribution scheme for the Azorian farmers covered by the simplified taxation regime provided for in the IRS Code, which was submitted by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. This is, in fact, the most representative type of agriculture of the regional and national agricultural reality. It is holdings with less than 5 ha, representing 62 % of the reality of the Azores, 99 % of Madeira reality and 71 % of the reality of the continent. As I have already had the opportunity to say earlier in this House, the CDS-PP argues that this reality must be cherished so that it can overcome its specific difficulties, for the benefit of the diversity of the Portuguese rural world and the national economy. We already know — and if we had any doubt, it would be sufficient to read the preamble to this bill with a little more attention — that the CFP believes that the Azores region would be much better if we were not integrated into the European Union and that the difficulties of these farmers and even the whole economy are caused by, and I quote: 'Free opening of the regional and national economy to external markets resulting from accession to the EEC then'. However, we do not understand how the CFP then regrets the lack of support for agriculture and attributes to them the cause of the abandonment of the land. In other words, the CFP is against the European Union, but it even gives it how much funding it brings to us. But, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the CDS-PP believes that integration into the European Union has been, and it is an undeniable contribution that enables all of us, as well as these farmers and their families, to be much better today. We believe that it is possible, with the correct policies, in a territorial cohesion logic, to ensure the sustainability of the most unprotected types of agriculture. That is what the CDS-PP has done and that is why it has worked for the last four years while it has been in government. It is inevitable that we recognize him and will not be serious who does not. In fact, a huge set of measures have been implemented, of which I stress four: the VAT standard regime; the Portugal Sou Eu mark; the legislation that created local producer markets and short distribution circuits; and the introduction of mechanisms that allow account to be taken of the specificity of small agriculture in the constitution of producer organisations. All these and many other measures that we have implemented are important promoters of market access capacity by these farmers, particularly at local level, and contribute to job creation and income creation and thus to the sustainability of this type of agriculture. For all I have said, it is clear that the CDS-PP has always defended measures that support this kind of family farming. with regard to the social security contribution scheme, which is the concrete object of this proposal for a law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, I now state that the CDS-PP is available to work on this subject, in respect of a framework of equity and social justice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u145	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to welcome the initiative of the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, which deals with a relevant topic and, as we all realize even by previous interventions, which is a cause for concern of the various benches, although differently, by the way the concerns were presented. from the Left Block, we have knowledge, which is clear and unequivocal, that there is indeed a breakdown of prices of agricultural producers in Portugal. It is transversal to the various sectors, not only because of a particular sector, but because of the liberalisation of the markets, particularly at European level, and as a result of the opening up of the markets and the liberalisation of the markets at European level, and not only because of the fact that Portuguese farmers, particularly small and medium-sized farmers, had to be confronted with completely different economies of scale and therefore productions which have a reduction in production costs that are incompatible with competition with national producers. So when we talk about small and medium-sized agriculture, particularly family farming, we cannot spread this reality. It is impossible for a family producer to reduce production costs in the same way as there is a large production. But we know the advantages of family production, when compared to large production, both in job creation and in the defence of biodiversity, or even in the promotion of much more environmentally sustainable forms of production. That is why we must protect family production and that is the interest and purpose of this bill. from the Left Block, we have already followed this initiative in the Regional Legislative Assembly and we will again follow up and try to make our contribution in the context of the speciality debate. But we know well, and we do not forget, as the Government did the PSD/CDS government, particularly with the amendments to the VAT regime, the small producers. It was the slaughter of small producers. After the income margins have been smashed, after they have been attacked in the obligations they have to fulfil, there are still changes in the VAT regime which has thrown many of the small producers, family producers, out of production. Many of them preferred to stop producing from having to pay the taxes they were obliged to. In view of this reality, we must all, even the PSD and the CDS, despite this past insensitivity, reflect how we should protect family agriculture and how in particular Azorian agriculture, but also, now, Madeira, can be protected, due to the additional factors of difficulties: agriculture in island space, with the territorial discontinuity that is inherent to it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-14.u147	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the debate, in general, of the proposal for a law No 323 / XII ( 4 ). (a) and, with him, at the end of our work today. We shall have a plenary meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the following agenda: from point 1, it shall include the election of two members to the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, a member to the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products and to the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, whose election is the responsibility of Parliament. Article 224 ( 2 ) ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. on the third and final point, there will be a legislative vote. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 29 minutes.]]
