ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session today. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. We have today on the agenda a marking of the Block of Left that consists of the discussion in general, of Bill No. 232 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and channels of communication ( BE). I take this opportunity to confirm that we will vote at the end of the debate, and I therefore call on the heads of the various parliamentary groups to notify their banks. First, however, if we get on the agenda, I will ask Mr. Secretary, Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the drafts of lein. 235 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Requires the annual publication of the total value and destination of transfers and remittances to countries, territories and regions with preferential taxation arrangements ( BE) and 236 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — condition the tax benefits of the Madeira Free Zone to the creation of stable and full-time jobs ( BE ), which fall to 5. the Commission. They also gave in, and were admitted, the draft resolutions 316 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by combating precariousness in summer ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 317 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening and deepening of European coordination and action on transparency in the area of taxation and financial transactions ( PS ), which falls to 4. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u3	Let us, then, enter the agenda on which there is general discussion of Bill No. 232 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and channels of communication ( BE). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Agriculture: Let's start with the presentations. Glyphosate is the most widely used herbicide in the history of Humanity. It is a non-specific and broad-spectrum product, that is, it kills all plants except those that have been artificially modified to become resistant. It was created in 1974 by multinational Monsanto with the commercial name Roundup that is still used. Since 2000 several licences have expired and other multinationals have also started producing this herbicide. This is a case of commercial success, especially since Monsanto began introducing genetically modified species specifically designed to be resistant to this herbicide. Therefore, glyphosate has been one of the instruments to gain Monsanto's position as a dominant force in terms of new forms of genetically modified agricultural production. But the use of general glyphosate has been, in addition to its initial use, not only in agricultural terms, from large scale to domestic and non-professional uses, used to clear the land before the seedling — in the use by the authorities, in the maintenance of green areas, gardens, squares, streets, berms, floors, cemeteries etc. , and even in the cleaning of statues and other elements of cultural and architectural heritage. Glyphosate has become a typical poison of austerity times, a way of paying for contamination what is to be saved in jobs and sustainable investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u6	in recent years, glyphosate has become omnipresent and that is why there are traces everywhere. In recent tests, traces of this substance were identified in 15 German brands of beer and even in buffers and hygienic adhesives manufactured from cotton. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the effects of glyphosate on human health are concerned, rather than a whole of controversy between contradictory reports, our responsibility is to respond today and here to the principle of caution. We therefore avoid the use in this debate of last-minute crafts that only demonstrate the extent of the influence of these multinationals on international monitoring and monitoring. I am referring to the news of these last few days, mentioning reports claiming that glyphosate does not pose a danger to human health. It is not necessary to be a specialist to distrust a study on glyphosate that is presented exactly two days before the European summit deciding whether or not to continue this herbicide in the European Union. But even before the summit begins, the nature of this new report is already exposed. The English Guardian today reports that the principal responsible for the report is no less than the head of the private foundation that received a million euros from Monsanto and the agrochemical industry. Therefore, this study leaves the scene even before entering and remains as a major reference study the one that has always been, that is, that of the World Health Organization (WHO ) that links glyphosate to the prevalence of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Non-Hodgkin lymphoma is one of the most common cancers in Portugal and in recent years there have been 1700 new cases per year. That is why the Bastonary of the Order of Portuguese Physicians has already said that the conclusion is clear, and I quote, "...this herbicide should be suspended all over the world...". It is the principle of caution and it is about him that we are called upon to decide today. In addition to widespread use and potential danger, contamination is also general. last week, 48 Euro MPs agreed to undergo tests to verify the presence of glyphosate in the body. It was revealed that each of them had values 17 to 35 times above that allowed for drinking water in his own body, in his own blood. In Portugal, a few weeks ago, no one could be indifferent to the data revealed in the report of the program Friday at 9 o'clock, of the RTP. The Transgenic Platform Fora ( PTF ), which brings together a number of non-governmental organizations ( NGOs) in the area of the environment, presented the results of a study that commissioned a laboratory in the United States of America in which a group of families underwent tests to verify precisely the presence of glyphosate. The conclusions are frightening. These families have up to 260 times more the normal and acceptable amount of glyphosate that is the one that is recognized, for example, in drinking water. The situation is very worrying and it is time to take action. Of course, many who oppose the removal of glyphosate, even when they do not try to deny its negative effects on the environment and on the health of people and animals, argue that there are no alternatives to the use of herbicides and this active substance in particular. This is not an unexpected argument, in fact, just remember the persistent defense of the insecticide DDT for a few decades. Rachel Carson, author of one of the most prestigious works in defense of the environment — the book Silent Spring — was attacked on the public square by the lobbyists when she reported the devastating impacts of the DDT that today are consensual. It took several years to be recognised to this author and today, in 2016, almost all of us still have in the body the traces of the DDT used by previous generations and our children will still show this presence due to the transmission made by breast milk. But if you decide well, Portugal will not be alone. Already in April the French President announced that glyphosate will no longer be marketed in France. Yesterday, in press statements, the Minister of the Environment stated that, regardless of the debates on the carcinogenic nature of glyphosate, the studies available by the French Government show that it is an endocrine disruptor, i.e. glyphosate is a factor of hormonal disturbance in humans and animals. New studies are expected, the Minister continued to say for 2017, but in any case while waiting for these new studies will not renew the authorisation for glyphosate in France. There is legal coverage for this decision. Commission Directive 2009 / 128 provides for Member States to ensure that the use of pesticides is minimized or prohibited in certain specific areas, such as those used by the general public or by certain vulnerable groups, including parks, public gardens, sports or recreational fields, school grounds and others. That is why today the Left Block returns to this issue in Parliament. We brought it back in 2015 and already in this legislative session we presented a draft resolution to ban all the use of glyphosate in Portuguese territory and its marketing was for agricultural use, or for urban use. Today, our proposal is different. On the one hand, there has been a path to public clarification and international clarification. After a summit of experts last March, which decided to postpone the decision to extend licences for glyphosate in Europe for not meeting the majority necessary to give more than 15 years of freedom of use and marketing of this substance, in April, the European Parliament recommended, by a majority, the prohibition of glyphosate in urban areas. The Portuguese Government itself has also evolved in its position in these international debates. After a favourable position to renew the licence last March, the Government came, according to information which made it public in response to a question from the Left Block, at the summit between today and tomorrow in Brussels, to take an abstention position. For this reason, conditions for a decision and a major change are now in place. The Left Block presents a bill that consists of two essential measures: the prohibition of the use of glyphosate in urban spaces and the imposition of a one-year period for the study of the impact of glyphosate on society and on the health of those living in Portugal Prohibiting the use in urban spaces corresponds to the notion of a problem. The Left Block conducted an investigation of Portuguese authorities and concluded that in 112 responses 94 authorities use glyphosate intensively. There are alternatives: mechanical means, which cut and destroy vegetation, from heavy machinery to garden miniatures, and physical means, such as the use of burners or manual cutting instruments. In gardens and other permeable areas, it is still possible to use organic and synthetic coverings that prevent or limit the emergence of unwanted plants. It is about recognizing the problem and working on solutions and alternatives, and that is the responsibility of politicians, whether they are legislated or those in local power have no responsibility to enforce the decisions that protect the population. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Water lines are the best example of how the solution for vegetation control passes through ecosystem engineering. The use of glyphosate along urban sanitation lines within municipalities and not only in agricultural areas, which today happens in an uncontrolled and uninformed manner, can lead, and lead directly, to water line contamination. Today, there are many water lines, regardless of their size, either in urban spaces, or in rural spaces, which are affected by the application of pesticides on their margins. So what we are discussing today in the bill of the Left Block is the prohibition of the use of glyphosate in urban areas and, in particular, by the authorities who are the major users in these areas. Today, we will not touch on agricultural use, we will not change the legislation from that point of view. It is to work on what, in particular, the Portuguese authorities may or should not do in terms of the use of glyphosate. Secondly, the left block bill establishes the maximum period of one year for the study of the impact of glyphosate on society and on the health of those living in Portugal. It should be noted that the successive studies carried out by the Government in this area have never included glyphosate in the list of products monitored as regards the presence of traces in human nutrition. For now, the government has only announced that it would do analysis of glyphosate in the rye. Now, it is fundamental to go far beyond this, even because rye is not part of the typical diet. It is necessary to do water analysis, a much wider range of food and soil itself. It is also necessary to study the presence of glyphosate in the organism of the inhabitants of the various points of the country, in addition to those that have already been studied in the small sample carried out, a few weeks ago, by the platform of non-governmental organizations of the environment. Portugal is a recordr in consumption and seems to be, as everything indicates, a recordr in glyphosate contamination in the body of our populations. Therefore, we need to know deeply what the reality of the country is in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, important decisions are taken today and tomorrow in Europe on the continuity of these licences. But these decisions do not prevent us from going further, here and now, in the defence of the precautionary principle, from now on in this country, which is our own and where our democracy must respond to the protection of the environment and public health. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u7	Mr Jorge Costa, three Mrs have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u8	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u9	You then have the floor to ask for clarification from Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u10	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development — whom I welcome — Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jorge Costa, this afternoon we are discussing an issue which is important and will take us 133 minutes. It is, in fact, a technical issue, not a political issue. I remember that we had this discussion about one or a half minutes ago and spent 25 minutes and today we are going to spend an afternoon discussing a very technical subject in this which is a political chamber. It is typical of the Left Block to advocate this discussion, because it wants to prohibit without reflection, or prohibit without thought. I recall that in the Committee on Agriculture, it was decided to move forward with a set of hearings to various entities and the Left Block did not indicate any entity that would listen because it already knows that this active substance is dangerous to populations. Mr Jorge Costa, I would like to point out a few incongruences. The first concerns the position of Euro MP Marisa Matias in the European Parliament. The honourable Member does not know that Mrs Marisa Matias voted in favour of a motion for a resolution by the European Parliament which renews the application of glyphosate last month. Take a good look! I'd like you to explain this incongruence to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u11	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u12	On the other hand, honourable Member, your bill does not mention scientific studies. And you don't do it on purpose because you know that, even last week—and in this case you can say that it wasn't in time because the bill had already entered this House — the WHO and the FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations) decided that there is no probability of this substance being cancer. They decided this on the committee that took place between 9 and 13 May. But the honourable Member is here to say: "Let's ban! We forbid it now! The scientific community understands that it is not, but we, as a political party, intend to ban it from now on. Do not keep on seeking. ” The honourable Member refers only to one WHO agency, which considers that it is likely that glyphosate may have some effect from the carcinogenic point of view, in fact, like other products, Mr. And even this study was very contested by the entire scientific community, because the sample was placed in an exaggerated way. at the time, scientists said they put the sample to "drink" directly glyphosate, something that does not exist in our population. Mr President, I would like to understand what you have to say about the decision of WHO and FAO last week, which say that there is no danger. I'd like you to explain. Besides, I'm sorry to tell you, but your bill has another incongruence. The honourable Member is restricting the use of glyphosate, but then in paragraph 3, he says: "Let's give a year to study. That is, first we ban and then we study and re-analyse glyphosate. [[BE's protests.]] Mr President, in view of the scientific opinions we have on the table at the moment, there is no such danger if you rely on the analysis of this international agency, then you would have to extend much more — and we are talking about products that are consumed every day by Portuguese, by European citizens. You certainly don't know that list. But you wanted to make this political agenda, in fact, following a parliamentary journey of the Left Block, in Beja,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u13	In Evora!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u14	... where they talk about the issue of agriculture and what stands out is the question of the active substance of glyphosate, which they know to be widely used by farmers. Another incongruity. Mr. Deputies. "We will restrict the application in the urban environment. But is the problem public health or not? Is it a public health problem why it doesn't restrict entirely? Can farmers be subject to that? Is the problem only in the urban environment? Why don't you restrict yourself in rural areas too? Mr President, I am sorry to tell you but you have fled your mouth to the truth when you said that today we are not dealing with this because what you really want is to start this way and then extend to agriculture. We do not know that, Mr President. The question I ask you is: what is the alternative? What is the alternative to the Left Block?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u15	Take off the herbs by hand!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u16	What is the alternative to the authorities? Are the authorities going to have to clean up their public roads, including to prevent fires, and what alternative is the Left Block? Based on what? Mr President, the scientific data do not show that this causes danger.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u17	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u18	We have to be very careful in analyzing these problems. These are technical decisions that must support political decisions in this area, and you cannot ignore that. He is going to be very concerned with the lives of the authorities and, in the future, probably with farmers on the basis of a possibility that exists in relation to other products. And in this, we have to be very careful.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u20	We cannot play either with public health or with the costs that exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u21	I'm not playing with public health!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u22	Mr President, the last study — in fact, the Minister spoke of this — from WHO, I repeat, the last study by the WHO, meeting in committee between 9 and 13 May, says that there is very little likelihood that there is danger. Mr President, I would like you to clarify all these questions, in particular — and I shall conclude — which are the alternatives? How is the cleaning of communication channels done? How will the authorities work on that? Are you going to ban this? Are you going to include this in the study, within a year, to examine whether we have this problem or not? Mr President, we are going to be a full afternoon discussing technical issues, with great pleasure, but in this matter, if you want to go to the technical issue, then call the technical issue, do not come with the foam of the days, because indeed this foam of the days does not benefit neither farmers nor the Portuguese population.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u24	If, in fact, there is clear evidence that there is a problem for public health, we will be the first to be on the side of public health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u26	Now, we're not going on the foam of the days, nor on any populist agenda, based on television programs. Mr President, let us not decide on matters of this importance on the basis of television programmes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u27	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u28	We have to decide according to the scientific studies that exist. Mr President, if you would like to make a technical analysis here, we will, of course, also do so. Now I would like to be clarified about the vote of Euro MP Marisa Matias, about the incongruence, in his bill, between paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 and to understand what are the studies that underpin his decision. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u29	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u30	Mr President, Minister, Mr Jorge Costa, as you well know, it has already been mentioned here by Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos — there is to date no conclusive study on the dangerous use of glyphosate. Therefore, I ask you, of course, why political power should be put ahead of the scientific community. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u31	It is a question that I would like to see answered. As you know, glyphosate is also used—in fact, it has already mentioned—by hundreds of authorities in our country, because alternatives are either nonexistent or are much more expensive. Let me quote the answer of a councilman with the hair of the green spaces — indeed, a socialist chamber — when asked about the use of glyphosate. He said: "There may be an alternative form, but for that it is necessary to have a battalion of people working to make the world manual. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, are you aware of the costs inherent in banning the use of glyphosate in public spaces? Did you have any accounts on this issue? Of course you can come here to talk about the alternative of hot water, but I ask you if you have any idea of the costs that this also brings, the water that is spent and the situations in which its use is not possible. In order to achieve effective control of infestants in the use of glyphosate with the hot water method every six weeks, i.e. eight to nine times a year. With glyphosate, as you well know, treatments are limited to two, up to three times a year. It is important to say — it must be very clear in this matter — that applying glyphosate implies a lot of responsibility and knowledge on the part of the applicator, that glyphosate must be used in the indicated dilution, at its own time and with the favorable climate, obviously avoiding days of wind and rain. What cannot be done is what the Left Block intends to do today to this House, which is to prohibit and brutally increase the expenditure of authorities in the control of infestants, without any study of the scientific community justifying this political decision. That is why, Mr President, it seems to me that the bill here today is completely out of date. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u32	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Jorge Costa, today we are returning to the discussion on the issue of the use of herbicide glyphosate. If, in the projects evaluated in plenary on 13 April of the current year, what had been placed on the table was the general ban on the use and marketing of pesticides containing glyphosate, this time we appreciate the proposal to prohibit the application of any plant protection products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure zones and communication routes. In view of the relevance of this issue, not only specifically regarding the use of glyphosate, but also the use of fitopharchals in general, the CFP Parliamentary Group today presented a draft resolution recommending to the Government that, in summary, it constitutes a permanent multidisciplinary committee with technical and scientific capacity that involves public entities with responsibilities in the areas of health, environment, agriculture, work and economy. This committee, among other issues, will have the responsibility to gather available technical and scientific information, evaluate the toxicity of glyphosate and propose measures regarding its use or prohibition. We propose that this be done not only with regard to the use in urban spaces, but also with regard to all uses of glyphosate, together with a study of alternatives to ensure that infesting plants can be controlled in public spaces and in agricultural crops. Mr Jorge Costa, is the Left Bloc available to follow this proposal from the CFP and consider a solution that alerts all these situations? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u34	To reply, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u35	Mr President, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, your complaint about the fact that we are here today discussing a technical issue well demonstrates the insufficiency of the right-wing, the PSD in particular on this issue and perhaps, in general, on environmental issues, if I may. Because to reduce the issue of glyphosate, which has been on the international agenda for several months, which has been the subject of an in-depth debate in the European Parliament, which has been the subject of decisions in the European Parliament which are a recommendation to the European Commission's decision now and which says that the Portuguese Parliament must remain silent and silent because it has no technical competence to consider these matters is something transcendent, from our point of view, on the granting of environmental policy and Parliament's obligations to respond to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u37	In order to get some confusion out of the way, Euro MP Marisa Matias voted, like the Parliamentary Group to which he belongs, against renewing the glyphosate license. There was a delay in the vote, there was a favourable vote in the registers, but she gave in the services at that time a correction to the vote, so it is natural that this error has remained. But just look...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u38	It's public!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u39	It is public, yes, and the vote of Euro MP Marisa Matias is exactly the same as that of the bench to which it belongs. This is only to remove this confusing element. On the other issue that the report raises, I referred to it in the speech. The report that was launched two days ago—it is good to highlight why, on the eve of a summit, it is clear how interesting it is to serve a report that has this timing—it has just been denounced today, in The Guardian newspaper (and I can have the news published), where it is shown that the principal responsible for preparing this report has a conflict of first-degree interests, because it is at the same time the leader of a foundation directly funded in EUR 1 million by Monsanto and the agri-food industry. Therefore, everything is said, the maneuver has failed and only the PSD Parliamentary Group is that it still makes use of this study to intervene in this debate. This study collapsed on the first day that it was presented. with regard to the differentiation between our proposals, I must say that the proposal we are considering today concerns the urban use of glyphosate does not correspond to the whole of what the Left Block proposes about the use of glyphosate. We argue that glyphosate is banned because it is a toxic substance that must be eliminated from the public space. That's what we're defending. But as the European Parliament recommended to the European Commission, we make a distinction about how long these decisions are taken. If you look at the recommendation that the European Parliament addressed to the European Commission, you will find that, while accepting the extension of the licence for agricultural uses, it recommends the immediate ban in urban areas, as we do in this bill. What the Left Block here today proposes comes in line with the recommendation adopted in the European Parliament — see, a Parliament with six hundred and such members and which has been able to discuss such a technical issue as this! [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] So, honourable Member, there are alternatives, they are studied and are in application. See, glyphosate began to be produced and marketed 25 years ago. But the constitution of cities and the urbanization of Western societies seems to have begun before that and it does not appear to be a jungle! There are not only old methods such as modern methods to respond to this problem and which are being applied in cities as "small" as Madrid or Bristol or as several cities in Portugal, who have responded to us saying that they do not use it. [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] I have already told you, Mr. Member : Madrid, Bristol or the House of Gaia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u40	What are the alternatives? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u41	What are the alternatives? There are several: mechanical, manual or thermal. These techniques are being applied in cities of great, medium and small size throughout Europe and it is sufficient for Portugal to join best practices in order to be able to respond positively to the public health challenge that is being launched. Mr. Álvaro Castello-White, concluding study? in these matters there is no papal bulla, which is international institutions that fully pronounce themselves on these matters. WHO is the validated international authority to pronounce itself on this and identified glyphosate as a potentially carcinogenic substance. And if we're expecting another study paid by Monsanto to say that, after all, there are no conclusive conclusions, we're going to be all our lives delaying the precautionary principle, and that's to play with health and play with our responsibilities in terms of environmental protection. Mrs Ana Mesquita, of course the Left Block is available to support and to join the proposal presented by the Communist Party here. We believe that these changes are of course difficult, we do not underestimate the implications of the transition to good practice, both at the local level and in the future, we expect at the agricultural level. This should be studied in respect of the economic sector, the people who have their lives either in public services or in economic activities and agriculture, now very much linked to the predominance of these products, and we certainly want to make this transition more responsible and prepared. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u42	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: I would like to begin by congratulating the Left Block Parliamentary Group on the presentation of this bill, which responds to a current problem and is fully in line with the positions of the Government on this matter. As everyone knows, glyphosate is a non-selective, systemic herbicide and is not patented. It is marketed in Portugal by about 20 companies and has a wide use in agriculture and urban areas to combat infesting herbs. The period of authorisation for the use of this herbicide in the European Union shall end on 30 June. The European Commission has therefore been obliged to submit a renewal proposal, proposing, in March of this year, the extension of its use for 15 years. The European Parliament, as already mentioned today, reacted with an own-initiative report, expressing general agreement with the European Commission's proposal, introducing some recommendations, but reducing the extension of the period of use for seven years. The European Commission proposal, on which the final decision will take place tomorrow, was based on studies by the European Food Safety Authority and the rapporteur country, Germany. However, a study was published by the research institute of the World Health Organization, which concluded by the possibility of glyphosate having carcinogenic properties and which has caused, in recent days, great public alarm and great emphasis in social communication. The European Commission subsequently requested a re-evaluation by EFSA ( European Food Safety Authority ), and this European Food Safety Authority maintained its previous positions. This week, as has already been mentioned today by some of the Members. Members, the World Health Organization and FAO, through their Joint Committee of Experts on Pesticides, stated that glyphosate is unlikely to constitute a carcinogenic risk to humans. The European Commission's proposal for the renewal of the authorisation for glyphosate is essentially the following: it proposes the renewal of the authorisation for nine years; it has therefore reduced its initial proposal from 15 to 9 years; it is however two years beyond the proposal of the European Parliament; it adds specific requirements on the risk assessment for arthropods and small vertebrates; it obliges producers to submit, by 1 August this year, studies confirming the absence of properties that may affect the endocrine system of the human organism; and determines the withdrawal of taloamine in all products containing glyphosate. I would like to remind you that, until now, Portugal was the only Member State that determined last week the prohibition of this co-formulant in herbicide glyphosate. France has announced that it would also do so, but so far it has not implemented this announcement. It also determines the European Commission's proposal that ECA ( European Chemical Agency ) give the highest priority to Glyphosate classification and the European Commission also recommends that Member States minimize the use of pesticides in public areas. The Government, through the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs, has been monitoring this process and analysing all technical and scientific data and, on the basis of its assessment, decided to amend Portugal's position in the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals and Food for Human and Animal Use — which is the committee responsible for deciding on this matter — which was determined by the previous Government as being in favour of continuing the use of glyphosate, but, as I was saying, the Government has decided to change this position to another, of abstention, to allow us to assess the situation and to take the position that would seem most appropriate to us at the end. We also determined last week, as I have already had the opportunity to mention, the ban throughout the national territory on the use of taloamine in all products containing glyphosate and we started the preparation of legislation to prohibit its use in public spaces, in leisure areas, in areas close to schools, homes and hospitals, but not only the use of this one as well as other pesticides in these areas. I would like to stress that this is what separates us a little from the bill presented by the Left Block. The government wants to go a little further, i.e. not only prohibit the use of glyphosate, but also prohibit all types of pesticides in these areas, with only a few exceptions to be defined by DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) when it comes to situations that impose mandatory health measures. He gave only two examples: the case of palm trees that, as you know, are affected by a plague that the non-use of pesticides implies their total death, or, still, the African psyll of citrus fruits that, as you know, is an insect that carries the worst bacteria to citrus fruits. There are many oranges and lemon trees in public spaces which, if not treated, may call into question the entire national citrus orchard and therefore these exceptions must be considered. It seems to us, therefore, that the draft law under discussion which, as I say, the Government supports and would subscribe without difficulty, should still be improved in view of these aspects. On the other hand, it seems to me that the prohibition provided for in the proposal for a law on communication roads outside urban centres is excessive because the risks are identical to those of agriculture, since the pesticide is applied in bells by qualified professionals and with masks, and this would reduce enormous costs, either to the Estradas de Portugal company or to the municipalities or to the railway undertakings. at this moment, as you know, the meeting of the Committee of Experts takes place in Brussels, which will take the decision on this matter tomorrow. It is not possible to foresee what the final order will be, since almost all Member States, with only two exceptions, are inclined to vote in favour or abstention. A short time ago, I was in contact with the Portuguese representative on the Committee of Experts, all the representatives present were heard and only two countries expressed the willingness to vote against; but those who spoke in favour do not meet the necessary qualified majority. In accordance with the rules of comitology, which they know, it is certainly up to this Committee to take the decision and the vote will take place in principle tomorrow. If there is no qualified majority, the proposal will return to the Commission. But yesterday I had a personal meeting with Commissioner Andrukaitis, who told me that if there is no qualified majority, the Commission does not intend to approve the proposal. Therefore, if there is no qualified majority, the use of glyphosate will eventually become even prohibited in the European Union from 30 June. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u44	Mr Minister, six were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u45	I will respond to groups of three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u46	All right. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the argument that defending the use of glyphosate is in the sense of defending farmers is absolutely false. All the best modern practices in agriculture, technologically evolved, are precisely in the sense of eliminating the use of pesticides and the use of chemicals. We can therefore help Portuguese farmers by creating measures to ensure that their agricultural practices are at the level of best practices in Europe, such as in Denmark, where the Danish Government sees 100 % organic agriculture within a few years. That is the future and that is where our agriculture should also point. Measures and attitudes that are retrograde to the evolution of our agriculture do not help our farmers. on the contrary, they undermine the evolution and modernization of our agriculture. [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] The licence for the use of glyphosate in the European Union expires, as has already been said, in one and a half months and the latest international news makes it clear that the interests in which the use of glyphosate is moved are enormously and financially powerful. The news emerged on the eve of the decisive European Union meeting on this issue, which comes from a United Nations panel, thought that glyphosate would probably not be cancer. But this news was deeply discredited.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u48	What about the World Health Organization?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u49	In fact, as it is already customary, as it is already known, the huge web of influences in which Monsanto and other multinationals are moved to the sector and what he is willing to do to ensure the maintenance on the market of one of his most profitable products, even though this puts the environment and the health of living beings at stake. We welcome the Government's response to this issue. We believe that the development of the last meeting of the Committee of Experts of the European Union on the position of Portugal, which is now expected with the possibility of abstention, is already a positive step. however, we believe it is a position that still has a very large margin of progression, including the possibility of joining those countries that consider that glyphosate should be eliminated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u50	The Portuguese Government has already shown openness to ban the use of glyphosate in public space, so we want to welcome the Government and, in particular, the Minister for this position. The European Commission proposal, to be voted on tomorrow, does not introduce any limitation on this matter. It should be remembered that, recently, the European Parliament has also voted in favour of limiting the use of glyphosate in the public area — and that is an important first step to be taken. in this sense, we believe that the position of the Portuguese Government, through the current proposal of the European Commission, should be that of voting against. That is our perspective and that is what we propose to the Portuguese Government. We believe that this would be the vote consistent with what we defend for the country, of prohibition of the use of this compound in public spaces. What do we want to ask the Government, Mr Minister, is the following: is the Portuguese Government available to prepare an epidemiological study? Does the same matter to know the current reality and the effects of glyphosate on the Portuguese population? Is that the way in which the Portuguese Government is available to make, certainly with the majority support of this Parliament, so that it can be clarified, before the public opinion, before the farmers, in front of all those who are interested in the environment and the health of living beings, that this is the way to be done in order to have a clear position on the elimination of glyphosate? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u51	Mr António Borges has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Minister for Agriculture, as we all know, Portugal is no exception and the use of glyphosate also achieves significant levels that we should not ignore. But, as the Minister of Agriculture has said, we must also not ignore that its prohibition, without even giving rise to serious problems of competitiveness to our agriculture, particularly in more intensive production sectors. That is why, Minister, our conviction is that we should walk in the direction of minimizing the other risks to public health. However, taking into account the uncertainties of the studies and on the basis of the precautionary principle, the country should prepare itself for agriculture preferably with the least possible use of glyphosate, in a transition which is intended to be gradual and accompanied. A gradual and accompanied transition, both in the training of farmers and other potential users — and, in this respect, it was essential to extend the deadline for training farmers in fitophharmacs, either in the preparation of integrated studies and their dissemination. from our point of view, it would be equally interesting to start this gradual transition, recommending to the state services, centralized and decentralized, as well as to the authorities, that they no longer use glyphosate products, thus giving the example. Today, we have heard Mr. Minister here confirm that the Portuguese Government was the first government to ban Taloamine. This makes us very comfortable with the way the Minister of Agriculture and the Government of Portugal have dealt with these matters. I therefore ask you, Minister, whether or not you want to follow this step-by-step path and what concrete measures the Government has planned in this area for the coming years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u53	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, the position of the Greens on this subject is known. Furthermore, last April, a draft resolution by The Greens was also discussed here, which rightly proposes the prohibition of glyphosate use, given what is known in terms of its effects on public health. Unfortunately, this draft resolution was cast with the votes against the PSD and the CDS, the PS's abstention and the votes in favour of the other parliamentary groups. Also in the last fortnight's debate, the Minister, once he was present, heard the Greens ask Mr. Prime Minister about this matter of glyphosate, asking the Government in Brussels to hold firm to not renew the glyphosate license. The Minister here today announces that the Government's position will not be against, but merely with abstention. I want to tell you, face to face, Minister, that the Greens do not identify with this position of the Portuguese Government. We believe that the government, in view of everything we know and one more thing I will have to say, should take a vote against. And that thing I want to mention is called the 'precautionary principle', the precautionary principle that everyone uses in speeches, but, when it is to move on to practice, it is only to kick. And, Mr Minister, what the precautionary principle says is that if scientific data do not allow a complete risk assessment—and, as we know, several studies have already been announced here—if this complete risk assessment is not even reached, it can prevent the distribution or removal of products that are likely to be dangerous from the market. And that's what we are. In fact, the World Health Organization, through its International Cancer Research Agency, has associated glyphosate with cancer potential. And, Minister, we know that Monsanto, who earns a lot in this world with the marketing of glyphosate,... [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] ... only in 2015, it made more than EUR 1000 million with glyphosate-based herbicides. And now, I ask, is anyone in this house naive? Does anyone in this House know the weight of the great economic power over political power? But does anyone in this House want that weight of economic power over political power to continue? It is that someone in this House wants political power to lead the economic relations and the well-being of the people—and that one is also us, The Greens. That is why, Minister, there are things that make us very confused. Knowing that glyphosate is not researched, let's say, in things that directly affect human health, such as water or food, why aren't these complete analyses done? Why is this need for ignorance? Why is this swirling side, knowing that the cancer caused by glyphosate, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, has a very wide incidence in Portugal? Why ignore these situations?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u55	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, in particular, The Greens register this intention of the Government, to prohibit glyphosate in certain urban areas. But we must go further, we must not only take partial measures. When a product is dangerous, it is dangerous everywhere. And then we must be determined in its eradication. For example, in a project presented by the Greens, we defended the need for a period of adaptation and a transitional period, because we are not going to take us to the point of thinking that this ends one day at a time—no! But that responsibility had to be assumed, Minister. in this sense, what the Greens are asking is for the government to consider whether the European Commission should not even change its position at European level. That is the request the Greens make. The vote against is a determined vote in the defence of public health and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u57	To reply, Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. Mr Soares, very objectively, I would like to tell you that, yes, the Government is obviously available to sponsor, develop and cost this epidemiological study, possibly with the collaboration of the Ministries of Health and the Environment. In fact, it is our intention to move forward in this direction. Mr António Borges, I generally agree with your comments. And I also agree with what Mr Soares has said, that we would tend to all of us — and we will do so — that agriculture should go from conventional agriculture to organic farming. In fact, to your objective question about what the Government is planning to do about this, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that we intend to comply with the Government's programme, which expressly mentions that the Government will present a plan for organic agriculture - and I fear - in advance of drafting - not only integrating the many measures in this sense that already exist in the political instruments of the Ministry of Agriculture, and with Community funds, such as agri-environmental measures, such as specific support for organic agriculture, such as even the requirements of greening as a condition of support to 1. A CAP pillar. But we want to go further and I think we will be in a position, within a very short time (maybe within a maximum of two months) to be able to present the plan for organic farming. In addition, I must draw attention to the fact that we have been confronted on the precise day of the current government's possession with the end of the deadline so that farmers can acquire and use pesticides. We have also adopted a legislative initiative and I can tell you with great satisfaction that, so far, we have been trained, with basic information for the use of pesticides, about 150 000 farmers, that is, a good part of the universe has achieved this objective. With regard to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I agree with the comments she has made and, above all, with what seems to be the greatest vulnerability of either the Government or the Left Block, which has to do with the following: if we consider, precisely as you have said, for reasons of caution, that we will prohibit glyphosate in urban areas - and as you have told you, it is even the intention of the Government to prohibit not only glyphosate but also all pesticides, except those referred to - then why not do so in rural areas or in agricultural activities? Is it no longer dangerous there? Well, ladies and gentlemen, despite the ultimate objective, when we walk to organic agriculture, it is to restrict more, until total eradication, the use of products that are harmful to humans, to animals and obviously to nature, there is a substantial difference, which resides in the following: while in urban areas— and the main risk is the risk of inhalation, since no one consumes products with glyphosate, because glyphosate is to kill herbs and no farmer puts it in plants or on fruits, because, if he does, they would die, then, it is in grass that applies, so the only risk that exists in this matter is, in marginal situations, some animal can eat herbs, which, by experience, I know, does not happen, because animals, when they feel the smell of the pesticides, do not risk eating these herbs, so the only risk that there is, where there is a large concentration of humans, if there are in the field, if there is a poor field, if there is a poor form of plants, is to be used. Therefore, in terms of caution, the total ban on urban centres or facilities even located in rural areas — such as schools, hospitals, homes, which are many outside urban centres — is a first step towards caution. The second step is, of course, conscious and appropriate use. And, in any case, if any additional information exists that this eradication should be anticipated, we will do so without any objection. As for studies, I personally regret—and I think that public opinion will regret—that we are faced with studies with contradictory results, sometimes from the same entities. I mean, when a WHO institute said, a few weeks ago, that there are risks of danger and another set of experts from the same organization came to say that, after all, there is no confusion in the public. And it is precisely because of the lack of sedimentation of these issues that we think it is prudent to move forward with the measures — which, as I say, are going, following the draft law today under discussion, which may be a little corrected and even added — and gradually take steps that the circumstances justify, with the ultimate objective of total elimination of pesticides, as quickly as possible. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u59	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Agriculture, I would like to ask you two questions relating precisely to agriculture and which are also recommendations made today by the CFP in its draft resolution. The first relates to the issues of integrated protection and production, which can be an element of activity alternative to the use of pesticides, which has been taking place in our country since 2006. But the law of fitophharmacs of 2013, promoted by the previous government, did not consider integrated protection as a nuclear element in the development of phytosanity. Therefore, I wonder whether the Government considers stimulating integrated protection and production. The second has to do with the autonomous control capacity. Since 1994 there have been two committees: the Advisory Committee on Pesticides and the Committee on Toxicological Assessment of Phytopharmaceutical Products. The former Government said, in response to the CFP, that it did not make sense of the existence of these committees, given that these powers were now the European Food Safety Authority ( EASA ). I ask you, Minister, whether the Government does not believe that there should be structures in Portugal that monitor the availability and application of pesticides, precisely to have the ability to assess and decide on these matters without other entities. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u61	Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u62	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, one of the arguments put forward here for the prohibition of glyphosate was the positive result of companies and business groups producing these pesticides. One of the things that divides us is that our concern is not this, because we are not normally concerned with the positive results of companies and any economy, but with the negative results of companies, business groups and farmers as well. I therefore ask the Minister if he is indeed aware of the negative impact he can have on agriculture and also on local authorities using glyphosate as a pesticides. We have found that there are studies that say something and the opposite of it, and we have also found that the Minister for Agriculture is very concerned about this. I remember that it is because of this debate that is taking place here today that the Minister is with us, bearing in mind that he has not been present in other major discussions for Portuguese farmers and for our agriculture. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u63	Obviously, we also care about the health of Portuguese people, about the health of all of us. I therefore ask: what is the position of the Portuguese Government, in particular the Ministry of Health, on this matter? I wonder why we are talking about a health problem with the Minister of Agriculture, who is concerned about the use of glyphosate as pesticides, but we do not know exactly what the Portuguese Government's position on this matter is. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u64	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u65	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, in our country, glyphosate is widely used in agriculture, as well as being used by municipalities in squares, gardens, walks, roads, etc. Internationally, glyphosate is especially used in agriculture with genetically modified organisms (GMOs), since many of the varieties of GMOs are specifically resistant and immune to this chemical. Glyphosate is, in fact, the main compound of a pesticide that yields, per year, 5000 million dollars to Monsanto company. Several studies have shown that glyphosate has a systemic presence in our lives. One of these studies, for example, identified glyphosate in 14 German beers, in bread in the United Kingdom and in urine of people from 18 European countries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, bearing in mind the scientific evidence that herbicide is carcinogenic, the whole population, including farmers and farmers' families, should be protected and should not be exposed to this product. Integrated protection is the model defended, either by experts or by European legislation, for the application of the product. We need to study other solutions. There are already authorities and agricultural production modes that do not use glyphosate. In fact, I knew yesterday that there are authorities experimenting with the application of concentrated vinegar. These examples should be studied and generalized throughout the country. Mr. Minister, it is time for the Portuguese state to be on the right side. It is necessary that the Portuguese Government defends the country's population and agriculture and does not remain on the side of multinationals again. We are taking a good step forward and it is good that progress is being made towards banning the use of glyphosate in public spaces, but the health of farmers and their families must also be protected. And here too, the precautionary principle must be observed. It makes no sense to continue to allow the use of these proven dangerous chemicals. The trend in the agricultural world is towards the exploitation and generalisation of organic agriculture and good environmental practices, as shown by the example already mentioned in Denmark, which aims to have 100 % organic and sustainable agriculture environmentally. Therefore, in addition to good health reasons, good environmental reasons and even for economic reasons, it is this type of agriculture that should be privileged. Consumers increasingly value this type of organic production or according to environmentally sustainable processes. That is the agriculture of the future. That is where we should go. Mr Minister, we ask: how long is the withdrawal of this product from agriculture as well? This is indeed the necessary step to take. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u66	Mr. Minister of Agriculture, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u67	Mr President, Mr João Ramos, I am grateful for the questions you have raised. On the issue of integrated protection and production, of course, these are the first steps immediately prior to organic farming. Normally, a conventional farmer passes through a first step of integrated protection, integrated production and then organic farming. These are measures which are currently covered by the Rural Development Programme, in the agri-environmental measures, and which we will include in the plan for organic agriculture that we are preparing, which, as I said, I intend to present briefly and in which we are trying to quantify and establish precise targets and timetables to achieve them. Therefore, it is a concern that we not only subscribe as we intend to contemplate in concrete actions beyond those that already exist. Mr. João Ramos also asked about the Advisory Committee on Pesticides and the Committee on Toxicological Assessment of Phytopharmaceutical Products, which were extinct. I was surprised when I arrived at the government, with the fact that many of these committees, of undeniable importance, disappeared. A few days ago, on the issue of the summer strike, I immediately sought to bring together the so-called « Agriculture Emergency Planning Committee », which was a Commission that existed precisely to assess stocks, in order to, in a crisis and disaster situation, to know which mechanisms, where stocks, warehouses, communication routes are located, etc. , to deal with emergency situations. And I was surprised that this Commission was also extinct. In recent years there has been this propensity for the extinction of many things without guaranteeing substitutions. Both with regard to the Commission I have just mentioned, and with regard to those which you have mentioned, we are reassessing them and we will obviously seek to reinstall them until they come from the Ministry itself and will not entail a significant increase in costs. Mr Mauricio Marques asked what was the economic impact of a possible elimination of glyphosate. If we were to suspend the application of this herbicide one day, the economic impact would be tremendous and would be tremendous in some crops, particularly in fruit crops, in olive trees. Let us say that production losses and associated costs would be very high. For this reason, acting with responsibility, this adaptation mechanism must be considered and it is also for this reason that the Government intends to abolish its use in urban centres and in those other places that I mentioned, to accentuate the application care in the rural world and progressively seek the alternatives to make this economic impact the least possible, unless a scrupulous scientific evidence determines us, irrespective of the impacts, the adoption of radical measures, which we do not exclude, but, in the current scientific knowledge, are not justified, until, as we say, the results of the studies are contradictory. Mr. Carlos Matias raised a relevant question. When I said recently that glyphosate does not have a direct implication in food, it is not entirely true, because there is only one exception, although it does not apply to Portugal, but even outside Portugal it is difficult for this to happen. As you know, glyphosate is also used as a grain-dryer, since it is applied in cereals, in countries where the climate is not dry enough, to prompt the drying of cereals for harvesting, and is used in the world of varieties that were created precisely to resist glyphosate. But in these varieties resistant to glyphosate, there is no panifiable cereal. Although our imports of bready wheat come from countries where there are no GMOs, in this case, GMOs of cereals resistant to this product are not marketable, therefore this risk does not arise. I have already answered in advance the other question which Mr Matias has put. Of course, the aim is to achieve the dream of agriculture without pesticides of any kind and on the shortest possible horizon. But so far, scientific knowledge will have to make important contributions, and that is why the scientific component and research in agriculture deserves special attention from us. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Science have already established protocols to connect the INIAV (National Institute for Agrarian and Veterinary Research) to universities, to create a national network of experimentation, or also to polytechnic institutes, precisely to accelerate the production of scientific knowledge, without which progress in agriculture and, in particular, the objectives of sustainability and public health protection are unattainable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u68	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now following the stage of action. Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I focus on four points. The first point relates to the fact that agriculture, all agriculture, is the most disruptive activity of ecosystems thousands of years ago. We destroyed natural ecosystems, transported species between continents, crossed species, changed species, invented fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides. This, in large part, resulted in the Green Revolution, which gave food, in principle, to all the inhabitants, despite being badly distributed. Herbicides minimize the mechanical removal of herbs. What's the benefit of this? It is to reduce soil erosion, it is to store more carbon stored in soils and it is to reduce CO2 emissions from machines that are used to remove these herbs. The problem of herbicides, curiously, is very similar to the problem of antibiotics. If we use too much, we develop resistance to herbicides and antibiotics, which are harmful. We, however, do not ban antibiotics, because they are useful. We must therefore take this into account when we discuss these issues. The second question I want to raise is to try to destroy this idea that there is a contradiction between the results on glyphosate. That's not true! There is no contradiction, absolutely, no contradiction. What the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) said is that it is likely that glyphosate is carcinogenic and EFSA says that it is very likely that it does not cause cancer. These two statements, which seem contradictory, are not contradictory. The first tells us that the risk is not zero for high exposures, and that's what was studied. The second tells us that the risk is very low for realistic exposures, those associated with food safety. So these two statements are not contradictory and are even complementary, as I will try to defend at a third point that I will present. This point relates to the fact that the risk is always associated with the issue of exposure: the risk is the greater the exposure. And I give you two or three examples to illustrate this in a very clear way. A small spoon of pure caffeine kills, instantly almost; oxygen concentrations only two or three times the ones we are subject to also kill; paracetamol, which we all use, at concentrations 10 times higher than those we use can kill. So this means that the risk never, under any circumstances, is zero. There's no zero risk to anything we do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u71	Nothing, absolutely nothing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u72	The level of acceptance of the risk depends much on the vision we have of the world; those who have a robust view of the world accept more risk, those who have a fragile view of the world accept less risk. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u73	Decreasing and measuring exposures is always a good option. Starting with the urban environment to do so, we also think that it is a good option to apply the precautionary principle, but we need to know more, we need to measure more, we need to have more information, because the existing information is not only contradictory, as it is complementary, depending on the type of studies that have been done. Finally, I would like to convey to you that, in my view, it is very important to separate scientific arguments from economic arguments. They are also complementary but must be separated. By the way, I remember that lobbies are very strong on all sides, not only on the side of the companies that are developing these areas. There are very strong lobbies on both sides, or on the three, or on the four sides, and we cannot forget this, and they have the right to be lobbies to defend their positions, but they are lobbies that are defended in relation to economic matters. Scientific evidence is not contradictory at this time, and does not justify, for the time being, the total prohibition of glyphosate use. The precautionary principle is an extremely useful principle, it is a principle that we should use, and we probably use, every day, yes, but intelligently and always based on knowledge. It must be based on data and not on opinions or intuitions we have. I conclude by saying that it seems that we have reached a consensus today, here, reasonable, on an issue which I hope will not be closed and will be enriched, I hope, with studies that we expect to be produced very soon. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a topic of the greatest current and relevance, but it is still curious that the Left Block, which for so long in the opposition had economic, financial and social concerns, legitimate by signal, chose for it its first ruling debate the theme of the use of glyphosate in urban areas, leisure and communication routes. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, did the Left Block schedule a debate on the state of the economy and how to stimulate the country's economic growth? Don't! The Left Block did not want to debate the fall in exports, the increase in imports, or how to attract foreign investment. The Left Block did not want to debate the fact that the increase in domestic consumption — the so-called engine of economic growth in the model advocated by the Government — is not having the expected results. We have also not heard the Left Block say what impact the strike on the port of Lisbon is having on the national economy. No, no, no. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: The Left Block wanted to go back to the subject and discuss the glyphosate. In the debate on this issue, the abolition of glyphosate in public areas, it is necessary to leave here a previous note: the debate in this Chamber is a political debate, which must not, nor can it, be over the serious technical and scientific debate, which is imposed on such matters. I believe that we will be unanimous in the principle that everything can do wrong, depending on the dose in which it is consumed and the way in which it is consumed, as indeed was evident in Mr Alexandre Quintanilla's speech, and this is the issue, not politics, but technique. The technical issue, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference, as has already been mentioned, between danger and risk. The danger, we can say, is the first step towards a risk analysis. It seems very complicated, but it is not, and indeed, it has already been very well explained by Mr Alexandre Quintanilla. First, the danger of a substance is identified, and this is the work carried out by the IARC agency, the International Cancer Research Agency. Then, and only then, progresses to the next stage, which is the risk analysis and takes into account the exposure of people to danger—and this is the work carried out by FAO and the European Food Safety Authority ( EFSA ). The work of these two organisations is therefore complementary, as attests to the joint statement by FAO and WHO released this week, and not antagonistic, as the Left Block wants us to pass. Yes, because until now the WHO has clarified — I repeat, clarify and not contradict — its position in a joint committee statement on pesticide residues. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then turn to the political issue, which is the responsibility of this House. The Left Block places itself on a widespread misinformation of public opinion, of the media and even of the political class in general, benefiting from a theme with high technical-scientific complexity and persisting to the maximum that a repeated lie often becomes true and that only they are the guardians of the public health of the Portuguese. Mr Costa mentioned here, for example, statements by the Bartonary of the Order of Physicians and a television programme—an additional set of entirely alarmist statements, Mr President! Mr. Bastonário said that the Ministry of Agriculture violates the law and the protection of Portuguese by excluding glyphosate from analyses. These statements by a staff member of the Medical Order most appear to be a leader of an environmental NGO. The television programme, in turn, said that « There are several Portuguese contaminated with glyphosate(...) », based on a study designed by a non-governmental organization (NGO ). where the methodology of these studies is disseminated, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? What accredited laboratory is this, so reliable, that you want to stay in anonymity? Let's be serious, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and let us also be clear: this is an ideological battle that the Left Block wants to win, benefiting from a PS that is hostage to its walking partners to sustain the robustness of this government. The explanatory statement of this project leaves no doubt when it states that it has already been stated here by Jorge Costa and Carlos Matias that « The Left Block will not give up, in the shortest term, ensuring the withdrawal of all products containing glyphosate from the market. I repeat, withdrawal from the market of all products containing glyphosate, « However, with political conditions for immediate measures, they should not be postponed ». This is therefore only a first battle of a much greater war. If the PS votes in favour of this bill, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, clearly the Government capitulates and, listening to Mr Minister's statements, it seems to me that this is not the position, it would certainly be the price to pay for a few more meters, perhaps a few miles, of a joint walk. Mr. Minister and Mr. Members, capitulating, opens a dangerous Pandora Box which will be very difficult to close, and the invoice, which always arrives, will be a total devaluation of the authority of all European scientific studies, both of the European Agency and of the Commission, or of the Member States that assess them. But this is of no importance for an anti-European party such as the Left Block, already for the PS it would be completely contrary to its ideological matrix. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: For the CDS, when it comes to public health, caution should be the motto. Therefore, the CDS argues that glyphosate should be for professional use, used by applicators with adequate training and under the conditions for which it has been intended, as we should do when we take a medication with medical prescription. I also recall that in the draft resolutions on this subject, recently rejected in this House, one of them the NAP, was requested by the CDS on its own initiative to vote separately so that we can vote favourably for the implementation of a plan to monitor glyphosate in surface waters, which was, in fact, unanimously approved in this House. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: The disorientation of the Left Block is such that it intends to prohibit glyphosate in public spaces, but at the same time whether the Government assesses the effects of its use. If this bill is approved, Mr. Members of the PS (and now I address to the Members. Members of the PS ), what they are saying is not that they support farmers because they can continue to use this herbicide. If this bill is approved, Mr. Members are encouraging in this case the Left Block to maintain its ideological agenda and to tell the country that there are first and second Portuguese Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u76	Yes, because it is safe to apply glyphosate in rural areas, soon for farmers, it must also be safe to apply it in urban areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u77	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u78	In order not to be dangerous, as Mr Minister has just mentioned, we must only ensure that the application is done properly and by qualified professionals, and for that reason there is training and control. It will certainly be possible and there will certainly be mitigation measures to improve by the various authorities, but the ban is certainly not the best corrective measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u80	For example, one might think of a night application when people are not directly in contact with products, whether they are glyphosate or other herbicides. I finish as I began: let's leave politicians what's political and scientists what's science. For the benefit of the nation, the economy and the people, the political debate cannot be related to the serious technical-scientific debate, which, indeed, must bear such a decision. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u81	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the House that, in addition to Mr André Silva, to whom I shall immediately give the floor, the Bureau shall no longer record requests for speech. For an intervention, you have the floor, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Despite the circumstances we are pleased to see today the issue of glyphosate being debated at national level. As early as 2014, the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon approved a recommendation from the NAP to the Municipal Chamber on this subject, also under discussion in the Committee on Agriculture the proposal from the NAP that the Government recommend to promote a water analysis programme for human consumption and agricultural products of plant origin. In view of the fact that public institutions must, above all, be concerned with public health, we see that the precautionary principle has not been a rule at the state level. There is a clear disregard for the rural world when our focus focuses mostly on the possible end of contamination of this herbicide into urban nuclei. I am addressing the Left Block and the Minister for Agriculture in particular, drawing attention to the fact that 90 % of the livestock rations produced in Portugal are produced with transgenic cereals and that 80 % of the transgenic cereals are resistant to glyphosate, so the analysis of the effects of glyphosate should be extended to the food production chain. He said very well that bread wheat GMO does not enter Portugal, that there were no GM-resistant transgenics to enter Portugal for human consumption, but for livestock there are, most, 90%, of the cereals to produce ration are transgenic and glyphosate-resistant.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u83	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u84	I will finish, Mr. President. In view of this, we consider, Mr Minister, that for the assessment of the effect of glyphosate on human health to be serious and in-depth, it is at least essential to analyze glyphosate in cereals for the production of rations for cattle. I conclude by saying that we not only expect there to be unanimity in the adoption of this bill today, brought here by the Block of the Left, as we hope that tomorrow Portugal will vote « no », with regard to the extension of the glyphosate marketing licence in Europe. [[Congratulations from BE, The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u85	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The last few weeks have been of some alarm around glyphosate, partly motivated by the approximation of decisions in Brussels on the renewal of the authorisation for use. The European Parliament has already decided to renew the licence, and the CFP voted against this decision because it should not be taken without a further study of its implications from existing scientific and technical information. The positions of different entities are apparently contradictory. Being fitophharmics, or pesticides, chemicals used in support of human activity may have a wide range of effects on different forms of life. In many cases, these effects have a close relationship with the forms of use and the dosages used; in other cases, the impacts exceed these aspects. in the case of glyphosate, the World Health Organization considers that it is probably cancerous to humans. The European Food Safety Agency has been advocating that the alleged carcinogenic potential is not linked to glyphosate but to a coformulant, taloamine. If in a small sampling done by the Transgenic PlatformFora it was concluded that all human urine samples used were contaminated with glyphosate, yesterday it was even reported that UN specialists claimed it was unlikely that glyphosate caused cancer. The need for the use of fitophharmacs, associated with permanent concern with their use, obliges the country to have its own ability to monitor and monitor both the application of these products and their effects. And in this regard our country has been losing its capacity to intervene, particularly because some of these skills have been transferred to the European Union. The Advisory Committee on Pesticides and the Committee on Toxicological Assessment of Phytopharmaceutical Products were set up in 1994 and cancelled by several governments, with the argument that the European Food Safety Authority should monitor these matters. If we associate this with de-investment in the State Laboratories, our country is in a situation of complete fragility, in view of the monitoring of these problems. The best way to protect the interests of the country will be to ensure capacity and autonomy in this area, either through research and control, or through its own production capacity. This is the best way to protect the country's interests. This problem has a dimension relating to the use of fitophharmacals in the public space but also has another related to the use in agricultural activity, with a very relevant economic dimension, where the contradictions between the interests of peoples and those of multinationals are clearly reflected. The capitalist model of agriculture, such as the one developed by agribusiness, aims at the rapid and high remuneration of its applications, so productive capacities are taken to the extreme. The large multinationals, such as Monsanto, Syngenta or Bayer, who sell the products and seeds of plants resistant to their phytopherms, seek to ensure that the total control of the production process is increasingly in their hands, particularly by patenting seeds used by humans for millennia. Small-scale agriculture, family agriculture, although tending to be more lacking in training and technical follow-up — the issue makes it difficult for the services of the Ministry of Agriculture to be dismantled — is also more cautious in the application of production factors because they have more difficult costs to bear by smaller farms.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u88	Alternatives, such as integrated protection and production, have to be stimulated and have ceased to be when the plant protection law did not consider integrated protection as a nuclear element in the development of phytosanity. All human activity has effects on the environment and ecosystems and scientific and technological development increasingly enable alternatives to reduce or nullify these effects. It is therefore an obligation of this human activity, but also of the State, to maintain appropriate mechanisms and instruments for monotorizing the application of chemicals in nature, to encourage less aggressive practices for the environment and to stimulate research in the search for products and tendingly less aggressive procedures. in this sense, and taking into account the overall concerns on the subject, the CFP has today entered a draft resolution proposing the establishment of a permanent multidisciplinary committee with technical and scientific capacity and involving public entities with responsibilities in the areas of health, the environment, agriculture, work and the economy, which, in the shortest possible time and in accordance with the available scientific and technical information, the adequacy of the conditions of use of products containing glyphosate and proposes the appropriate measures, which, after compilation and analysis of the necessary scientific and technical information, establishes the indication of the possibility or prohibition of the use of products containing glyphosate and also assumes functions of monitoring the toxicity of plant protection products used in Portugal, similar to the competences held by the inactive Committee on Pesticides and the Committee on Toxical Assessment of Phytopharmaceutical Products, creating in the country autonomous capacity in this field. It further recommends that the CFP establish a timetable for the creation of a list of coformulants to be prohibited in fitophharmacos, which promotes and stimulates research on the control of infestant plants in public spaces and agricultural crops and reinforces and promotes protection and production measures integrated into agricultural activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u90	The seriousness of the problem and the nature of the relationship of the human being with the ecosystems in which it is inserted obliges the great rationality, wisdom and serenity in the approach to matters with this level of complexity. The proposal, commitment and approach proposed by the CFP are intended to make a serious contribution to the assessment of this problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u91	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Álvaro Baptista, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u92	Mr. President, Mr. João Ramos, glyphosate has been marketed since 1974 worldwide. So 42 years ago. It's not something yesterday, it's a reality that's existed on our market for 42 years. I hear you guys. Members of the Block on the Left and I stand clearly with the feeling that everyone has been born and lives in the city. Mr. João Ramos, why do I know that he is a person linked to the life of the countryside, who knows the life of the countryside, I ask: do you think that at this time, in the rural world, Glyphosate should be eliminated only because someone raised the question about his danger without presenting any studies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u93	We're not discussing this today! That is not the subject of the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u94	It seems that the owners of the Left Block in the countryside know the alphas they eat every day, but curiously, the PSD members also eat them, taking the same risks as they do. And I want to believe that you guys are. Members of the Left Block will give us the benefit of the doubt that we have no suicidal tendencies and therefore neither we nor our families want to consume products that are dangerous to human health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u95	Today the discussion is really about urban use!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u96	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake here is whether, by mere caution, we should take very considerable risks for our economy, our agricultural economy and the economy of our authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u97	So, what about health? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u98	It is that the alternatives to the use of glyphosate in the urban environment are the light burners, which, in practice, is to force workers to walk with macaretics to burn walks and sargets, or are the mechanical means, which is the workers walk with the portable cutters to make noise. Therefore, in practice and objectively, in our perspective, there are no conditions to impose a radical change to the authorities of their conduct, until, as this is a systemic herbicide and contact, it cannot, of course, be used in public gardens and parks. It is that, if it were, there would be no grass, no trees, because glyphosate would clearly kill these plants. It is also important to note that there are also agricultural crops in the urban area. Perhaps there are not many in Lisbon, but in the province, throughout the country, we find in the urban environment urban gardens and backyards where agricultural products are planted, many of them very important to the local populations, and that Mr. Minister for Agriculture and Mr. Members on the left should consider it. This is because, if the use of glyphosate is prohibited in these urban areas without precaution of these situations, it will be people with more difficulties, with less incomes and who use agricultural activity as a complement to income, who will suffer these losses. Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not something that can be a matter of mild mood. I'd like to ask Mr. CDU's Member if...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u99	CDU? Oh, my God! There are no members of the CDU!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u100	I'm sorry, I wanted to ask Mr. PCP's Member whether the authorities of the CDU or the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u101	Don't bother, Mr. PàF!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u102	I'm sorry, but sometimes we make a lot of confusion, day to day, dialectics and positions. But what I want to ask is whether glyphosate is not used in the PCP authorities, if there can also be no situation in which it occurs. Mr Minister, if the problem in the urban environment is to apply, then perhaps in the 150 000 courses that Mr Minister has just announced recently, operators have not been very well trained for the application of fitophharmacs, because, if they had had had adequate and correct training, they would be sure that they would be able to make the application in the urban environment without causing risks to people. Therefore, we think that this precautionary principle must be used carefully, because otherwise any day we have here the PCP and the Left Block, just because they hear or read in the social communication that solar exposure can cause skin cancer, to propose in any bill or resolution the prohibition of people going to the beach. And this is not a serious way to be in politics. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u103	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u104	To what effect, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u105	Mr. President, it's to ask for the distribution of a document...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u106	So it's for an interrogation at the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u107	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u108	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u109	Mr President, it is in order to request the distribution of a resolution in the European Parliament yesterday, a resolution already mentioned several times today, which limits the use of glyphosate in urban areas, and curiously, the PSD Members voted in favour of this limitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u110	The document will be distributed when it is delivered to the Bureau, Mr. To reply, Mr Ramos has the floor, which is no longer available for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u111	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, thank you for the question. The concerns and proposals of the CFP are well expressed in the draft resolution that we have submitted and which has been distributed to the bench of Mr Deputy, where we clarify the need to monitor these matters and to deepen the study on them. This is a matter of great importance. The honourable Member did not seem to give him much importance, but health issues are very important in this process, namely human health, as well as productive activity, which is another aspect of this problem that we are dealing with here, and, in the view of the CFP, we cannot neglect either one or the other. We believe that it is important and that we must work on alternatives to the use of plant protection products and pesticides. No one uses pesticides because he wants to throw money away, uses pesticides to achieve certain goals, and therefore alternative ways to achieve these same goals must be sought, in particular by safeguarding human health. What we cannot agree with is that, for example, in the agricultural sector, farmers become hostages of multinationals who want to control the entire production process, and this is an example of the situation in which multinationals produce products that respond and safeguard their genetically modified organisms, which are not attacked by the products they produce. So there is a cycle here that makes farmers dependent on multinationals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is necessary for the country to have the capacity to monitor and study these problems. As for the authorities of the CDU, where the PCP participates, the responses that were given point to this direction and have sought alternatives. These are the examples of Évora, Cuba, Barrancos and Arraiolos, where alternatives are sought to achieve the same objectives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u114	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u115	I conclude by saying that this behaviour of the authorities of the CDU does not eliminate the need to study and deepen these problems. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u116	Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings us today to discuss a bill which, on the one hand, establishes restrictions on the use of plant protection products containing glyphosate and, on the other, establishes a working group to assess the implementation of possible measures relating to the use of these products. It is an initiative that puts before us a fundamental principle of political action: the principle of caution. Precaver means taking measures that minimize future risk consequences when there are doubts or ignorance. This is a principle that must always be adopted when there is a high risk of lasting or irreversible damage to the environment or public health, or when there is no consensus in the scientific community on this matter. Now, on the use of products containing glyphosate, there is no consensus in international organisations that these products can cause cancer in humans, and the last report even states that there is unlikely to be a carcinogenic risk to humans exposed to it through food. There are even contradictory reports in the United Nations and the World Health Organization. However, as the people say, it is better to prevent than to remedy! Therefore, the use of products containing glyphosate should be considered and, in our view, it is absolutely necessary to apply the precautionary principle, because, above all, we must safeguard the quality of life and the health of citizens. This theme involves cross-cutting policies in several areas that always result in guaranteeing the quality of life of citizens and their health. Promoting sustainable development is the guarantee of quality of life today and tomorrow. And if health is not the only factor that influences our quality of life, it has a central importance. Thus, quality of life, environment and health are inseparable themes. Today, more than ever, we must have a precaution toward the human being so that it has a quality life. Among the various factors, it is necessary to preserve and respect the environment in order to ensure our quality of life and, for this, we must have more assertive and protective attitudes in order to make our habitat better, both for us and for future generations. Quality of life and health are therefore inseparable themes. The European Parliament, which has already taken initiatives in these areas, also asked the Commission to present a new draft implementing regulation to better respond to the sustainable use of herbicides containing glyphosate. And he urged the Commission to recommend that Member States limit or prohibit the sale of glyphosate to non-professional users, to assess, together with experts from the Member States, the use of products by non-professionals and to submit proposals. in this bill it is concerned, exactly and only, the urban environment, since it restricts its application to urban areas, leisure areas and the channels of communication, which, globally, are spaces whose management is under the protection of the authorities. Many authorities have already applied precautionary measures to avoid exposing citizens to the risk associated with the application of these products, not using glyphosate in the cleaning and treatment of the public space. This debate also has the merit of increasing the awareness of people and political decision-makers about the negative impact on the environment and the carcinogenic potential of these products, which may represent a real problem for public health. On the other hand, we cannot be subjected to economic wars and of obscure interest in this matter either. We must not create any alarmism, but we must prevent the consequences associated with the use of products containing glyphosate. For us, for the PS, defending the quality of life of citizens and public health is a priority. Putting people first is always our main policy. So our political action, and we will always be here, is to defend people first. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u118	To request clarification from Mr Renato Sampaio, Mr Pedro Pimentel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u119	Mr President, Mr Renato Sampaio, just over a month ago on the debate in this plenary in which three draft resolutions on the radical left were discussed, which recommended to the Government the total prohibition of the use of glyphosate in the national territory, the Left Block presents a new initiative on this subject. What surprises us in this debate is that the Left Block has resorted to a law, restricting the application of plant protection products containing glyphosate, when in recent years it intended to extend that application. However, in this debate the object differs, as in fact has already been pointed out by my colleague from the PSD. this time, the Left Block, although it has not had the wisdom to incorporate the latest findings of the scientific community, continuing therefore partial and populist, restricts, in a stalemate, the prohibition of the use of glyphosate in public areas of leisure and in communication. But, as we must remember, it was precisely this limitation that the PSD considered to be feasible in the last debate that took place here in April. We defend that it is in urban areas, the responsibility of the indigenous power, which should start the possible reduction of this chemical, but in a phased way, testing alternatives and voluntarily by the authorities. We continue to believe in science and international institutions that seek public health. in this sense, we do not consider this widespread ban to be useful to all glyphosate, before the findings of the specialized scientific community. If so, we do not recognise that the ban on this initiative should be imposed in a radical way on the authorities. We understand, yes, that this action should be done voluntarily, minimizing the increased costs that the end of glyphosate would cause. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to see the Socialist Party's position in this debate. I'm asking the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party feel comfortable with Mr. Minister of Agriculture, who trusts the institutions themselves that they reiterate that glyphosate does not pose a risk to public health, or that they accompany their coalition partner, the Left Block, in this prohibition. Is the PS available to approve this ban and exponentially increase the costs of the authorities in the management of the green spaces—as opposed to what was defended by the current socialist government, at least until last Sunday—and the costs of maintaining the rural roads and the mandatory cleaning of the tracks along those routes? It's the ladies. Members aware that the prohibition of glyphosate will necessarily lead to the application of substitutes in much higher quantities to achieve the same results? On the other hand, they reject this radical ban, reversing to the extent that the Ministry of Agriculture prohibits chemicals such as taloamine instead of all glyphosates? Or do you want to have no opinion, as the Prime Minister here has stated in the last fortnight debate, reserving the decision for unanimity of the other countries of the European Union, thus losing a great opportunity to support your Minister for Agriculture? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a political debate, but the subject is purely technical. It is a mistake if political decisions, in such matters as this, are no longer guided by technical and scientific opinions issued by accredited and internationally referenced entities and are based solely on ideological prejudices and political opportunisms. [[PSD applause.]] [[At the moment, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u120	Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u121	Mr President, Mr Pimentel, allow me, without any acrimony, for the sympathy that you deserve, to tell you that, as you have not guessed the content of my intervention in order to bring a written request for clarification, it has nothing to do with the intervention I have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u122	That's the PS position!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u123	In other words, the honourable Member has not raised any questions on the matter which I have discussed here. Therefore, the answer to your request for clarification refers to what was given by the Minister in his speech on this matter — indeed, he already knew that he was going to say that. On the other hand, you have made some statements, which I believe are free, on the problem of costs involving the use of mechanical or manual means and the use of glyphosate. I have no study, but there are elements that say exactly the opposite, i.e. that the use of mechanical and human means is more economical to the authorities than the use of glyphosate. Therefore, this statement does not take. As for the position of the Socialist Party, I think you must have noticed from my speech, from the previous speeches and from the intervention of the Minister himself, that we are globally in line with this initiative presented by the Left Block and therefore our vote at the end of this debate will not surprise you either. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u124	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u125	Mr President, I felt the need to give a reply to Mr Álvaro Batista of the PSD, not because he had referred to the CDU, as it is obvious, but because he said a number of things which, in my view, are absolutely dangerous. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. You know why? Because it completely undervalues the risk to human health of certain substances. If I give you examples such as as asbestos, such as glyphosate, which we are discussing today, or as genetically modified organisms, for Mr Deputies, that is all irrelevant. You know why? Because people don't inhale asbestos, or glyphosate or any other substance and they fall to the side; if they fell to the side, the honourable Member would wake up. But since these things have a medium- and long-term effect, he is not concerned, which is very serious, because we, in our political work, should in fact have a short-term perspective, but with a look at the medium- and long-term. This is what makes you responsible. That is what makes it adopt a principle of responsibility and a principle of caution, which should move it to act. But since you see no danger in sight, it does not hurt. And then he uses demagogy to fill up his argumentary speech, saying, « Any day people are forbidden to go to the beach because the sun can cause cancer»! But the honourable Member forgets one fundamental thing, which is the person willing to...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u126	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u127	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would say that you forget something fundamental, that it is the person who will want to act in a certain way or not and will involuntarily subject himself to certain dangers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u128	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u129	I conclude, Mr. President. That is what you are offering, i.e., you are trying to expose people, involuntaryly, to certain dangers. That doesn't make a politician responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u130	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u131	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u132	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u133	Mr President, the Left Block Parliamentary Group has presented a document and I would like to comment on it, since it contains a huge mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u134	Do you want to speak on the document? But the PSD has time, you can sign up, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u135	So I'm signing up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u136	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u137	Mr President, in fact, the Left Block has tried a 'number' here, but it has been wrong. The honourable Member came to say that yesterday there was a vote in the European Parliament and then distributed a document of 13 April 2016. But let us open the European Parliament page and where it refers to « renewal of the approval of the active substance of glyphosate », we see that the PPE Members, particularly the Social Democratic Party, voted favourably.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u138	Look what's written there! Read the resolution!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u139	The honourable Member has come to the contrary. Look at the chance! The honourable Member quoted a document and, in fact, there is a correction by Mrs Marisa Matias, but the fact is that the PSD members voted in favour. The honourable Member spoke in a vote yesterday, which is not yesterday, which is none of April, and said that the PSD Members had voted against. Mr President, the PSD members voted in favour and Mrs Matias also voted in favour at first and then voted against. Don't confuse the Portuguese! Many Members of the Socialist Party also voted in favour. And, Mr President, yesterday there was no vote! The honourable Member has wrongly distributed a document in this House to try to distort the debate. The debate didn't go well for you. Mr President, stop trying 'numbers'! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u140	Mr President, the Bureau registers a Member to request clarification. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u141	Mr President, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, I believe that the great disappointment that the PSD has been made only by the date, because if you read the content - and now I ask you to do so - you will see that the motion for a resolution deals with two themes: point 1, on the renewal for seven years of glyphosate use; point 2, on the elimination of the use of glyphosate in urban areas, point 2, which PSD and now the CDS voted in favour. More: on the vote by Euro MP Marisa Matias I asked to distribute the two leaves to avoid any doubt. If you read, you will find — I have to point out — that at the end of the second page you have the vote correct by saying that it is against, as we have already said in this debate, but you are afraid that you will not listen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u142	To reply, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u143	Mr President, honourable Member, what has been distributed was a sheet of intent only, it has nothing more.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u144	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u145	And you have the vote of almost all Members of the PPE... [[Protests by BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa.]] Sir, don't be confused. The honourable Member said that there was a vote yesterday and that PSD Members voted against. No, sir. He's here! PSD Members voted again to renew the approval of the active substance of glyphosate. [[BE's protests.]] It is a mistake of the honourable Member, as it was also mistaken with regard to yesterday's date. [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member spoke on the date of yesterday, and he was wrong again. Mrs Marisa Matias, by the way, corrected her hand. But, Mr, do not say that the PSD Members have corrected whatever it is. PSD Members have been as consistent as they have always been.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u146	They're not here! If I had voted how they voted there...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u147	In fact, I would very much like the honourable Member to have listened very carefully to Mr Alexandre Quintanilla's speech, because he would well understand the risk of legislating without hearing the scientific medium. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u148	The word continues on the PSD bench. Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: We are coming to the end of the debate and we have already begun to understand the issues that are at stake here. For the PSD, the question is very clear: it has always defended the precautionary principle based on data from the international institutions that present them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u150	Just in the speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u151	We do not embark on demagogy such as those that say that the reports submitted by institutions such as WHO and FAO are conditioned by someone. It is serious that we are taking on and throwing suspicions about organizations that basically inform us about what global public health is. We will need to be more careful in the statements we make. But it is also concluded that it is only possible to debate without demagogy, without cases such as those we have seen now, with an extended debate, knowing pragmatically whether there is a risk to public health. It's not worth continuing to do fun maneuvers. Either there is danger and then the discussion is made, or then it makes no sense to continue. Nor does it make sense to continue to prohibit the use of any substance without debate and without understanding what is at stake. I want to remind the ladies. Members of the Left Block who have already been approved in this House, recently, a monitoring of the use of these products in the autarchic area and today, without knowing any results, the Left Block wants to prohibit its use. But also, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, I must say that the Committee on Agriculture is discussing the matter because it wanted to know more and to have an extended debate. Do you know how many entities the Left Block called to hear, before you want to ban? Zero! Now, we have to listen, we have to understand, we have to know what's in issue to, then, take action, but the Left Block wanted to do the opposite. More, sirs. Members of the Bloc de Left : to assume, as has already been said, a distinction between the urban population and the rural population is not good for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u152	Tell Paul Rangel that in the European Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u153	It's not right for this Hemicycle to make this distinction! Is there any danger of health for everyone or just for some? You have to decide quickly. With regard to the alarmist issue, you are the ones who come here to make a greater alarm on this subject. I will read to you the study of a committee of the World Health Organization and FAO, which went out on Monday, in which it is stated, in relation to glyphosate, that it is unlikely that pesticide residues are at risk of carcinogenicity to humans. The European Food Safety Agency also concluded that there is no carcinogenic potential associated with glyphosate. If these were not the studies that you were talking about, then, what was the study that told you that there is a risk? It is the study of IARC, association of WHO. Is that the study?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u154	Where have you been so far? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u155	In this regard, the question of danger has already been explained here. But I'm going to challenge you to do one more thing, gentlemen. Members of the Left Block : they present a draft resolution to ban all those substances that have the same hazard index of glyphosate as they are included in this study. I dare you to do that! But do it quickly for the Portuguese people to really understand the matter. I challenge you to present a draft resolution to ban these substances. Finally, I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what's the alternative? What does the Left Block want to do, alternatively? You mean everyone who uses glyphosate today to buy tacks and bags to end the weeds? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to ban glyphosate, you have a good way: speak to the Minister of Agriculture of your Government — yes, to your Government, because you are in agreement with this government — that tomorrow will take a clear position on the use of glyphosate. The Minister for Agriculture, your Minister for Agriculture, has your decision in hand. You don't need Parliament, you talk to your government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u156	Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members of this House recently discussed two draft resolutions relating to the prohibition of glyphosate use. this time, the bill presented by the Left Block, which I use to welcome this initiative, focuses on the prohibition of the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, in leisure and in communication areas and also on the permanent evaluation of its effects on human health. We know that one of the greatest challenges for humanity is the search for more sustainable development models that allow for compatibility of environmental and economic perspective by preserving resources and biodiversity. Today's discussion inserts this view, placing at the heart of the political debate a chemical, glyphosate, which, despite being widely studied, drags with it controversy, doubt and uncertainty about its effects on human health. We therefore want to begin by praising the high sense of responsibility that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken on the approach to these matters. I highlight, as a recent example, the immediate ban on and withdrawal from the market of all taloamine fitopharms, a coformulant used in herbicide compounds based on glyphosate. There was no need for parliamentary debate in order for the Government, after the completion of the Community process of re-evaluation of the risks to human, animal and environmental health of taloamine, to determine its prohibition and consequently the exit of 17 plant protection products from the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u159	in the question of glyphosate, it is important to take into account all the scientific knowledge that has been produced and that, as it is known, continues not to be unanimous. We should therefore value all the positions that various countries, official entities and NGOs have written on the subject. We should also assume that questions related to the identification of carcinogenic agents and the increasing occurrence of multi-resistant bacterial strains should be considered as very relevant and to which more attention is urgently needed. with regard to agricultural use — underlining, agricultural use — we cannot ignore that the WHO position does not coincide with the European Food Safety Authority's reading on glyphosate and activation of the so-called 'precautionary principle'. Similarly, we must praise the associations of farmers who advise their associates to use the various pesticides in a regular, rational and conscious manner and encourage them to adopt integrated protection practices. Finally, I wanted to highlight all the municipal chambers and fregetal joints that decided to exclude the use of glyphosate in their territories, instead of using mechanical, thermal and biological means as a more sustainable alternative. It is in this diversity of positions that we must place ourselves, realizing more and more that there are no absolute and immutable truths in today's world and in the meantime, while science does not present final answers, what we must demand, as citizens, is the deepening of mechanisms that guarantee our biosecurity. I would therefore like to emphasise the initiatives aimed at protecting the health of the population and raising its degree of protection in relation to potentially carcinogenic agents, because in this regard, Mr Nuno Serra, there is no safety. That is the question that I ask you: is it not worth more for PSD to have public spaces free of glyphosate in environmental terms? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u160	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u161	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u162	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u163	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u164	Mr President, I would like the Bureau to have a document circulated. Mr. Pedro do Ó Ramos came to fetch wool and ended up being coughed. He referred twice to the report of the European Parliament and twice to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u165	You still have time to speak, if you would like, on matters of substance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u166	Mr President, I would just like to say that paragraph 5 of the resolution adopted reads as follows:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u167	This is an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u168	... « Urges the Commission, in particular, not to approve any uses of glyphosate in public parks or in the vicinity, recreations, public gardens... ». I would ask that the text be distributed to Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos to get to know him.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u169	In reply to Mr Francisco Rocha, Mr Nuno Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u170	Mr President, Mr Francisco Rocha, I am very grateful for the question you have raised, even because it will also serve to clarify the position of the PS. As he asked, if the glyphosate harms human health, we want it out of the authorities, out of the public spaces, but also out of agriculture. If you do harm to human health, we want you out. This is a PSD principle. But until they tell us otherwise, we think it's as good to be in agriculture as in the authorities. There are no Portuguese first or second, as has already been mentioned. But what I am most upset with, and I follow the Left Block — I have already said — is with the Socialist Party's not position: it is the absolute « nim». In all matters, for six months it has been « nin», and even in the question of agriculture, even in the question of glyphosate it is again « nin ». You decide: either you are against the use of glyphosate or you are in favour, but the « nim» is already a matter of « fleeing with your tail to the syringe». You assume before Portuguese farmers and explain to them the costs they will have with your 'nim'. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u171	Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the BE...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u172	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u173	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u174	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u175	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u176	Mr President, in the usual terms of these debates, it is the Left Block that has the right to close...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u177	That's the idea. There is no planned intervention. The government is not registered and it is therefore Mr Vasconcelos who will close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u178	I call on the Bureau to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u179	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u180	Mr. President, the Left Block has just distributed a document and we will assess whether we speak again after we examine the document.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u181	Mr President, the Bureau cannot wait for that reading. Therefore, who intervenes now is who is registered and the PSD or whether it is registered or not. If you do not register, as usual, the last intervention will be by Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: About a month ago, the Left Block presented in this House a draft resolution recommending to the Government its vote against renewing the use of carcinogen glyphosate in the European Union and the implementation in our country of this prohibition. The project was cast by votes against PSD and CDS and PS and PCP abstentions. We have been defeated by the force of vote, but have not won the strength of our reason and here we are again here, now with a bill banning the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and communication routes. Our insistence has to do with defense of public health and that we do not abdicate. Of course this is not the position of the right, the PSD and the CDS in relation to health, because for four years they completely despised the health of Portuguese. Indeed, as regards glyphosate, the position of the PSD and the CDS here is very strange, when in the European Parliament they voted effectively against the prohibition on the use of glyphosate, and I quote: 'it urges the Commission in particular not to approve any uses of glyphosate in public parks or in its mediations, recreations and public gardens'. So that is what we have, My Ladies and Gentlemen, and against this there is nothing to do! Glyphosate is the most sold herbicide in the country and in the world. According to data from the Ministry of Agriculture, in Portugal, 1684 t of glyphosate, an increase of 20 % compared to 2012. And glyphosate can stay on the ground for up to 60 days and have strong impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity. Due to its high solubility, glyphosate can be dragged by rainwater to surface and underground water lines and in Spain and France more than a third of the water samples have revealed its existence. But glyphosate also shows presence in consumer products, having been detected this chemical, as has already been said, in many products such as breast milk and other products such as beer, bread, etc. What is the main reason not to end glyphosate? It is essentially in the many billions that the product renders to multinationals. Monsanto alone is $5,000 million annually. The Left Block is associated with this campaign by banning glyphosate in the particular case of urban spaces. This is an international campaign. at the beginning of this legislation, the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, within a public appeal launched by some environmental associations such as Quercos and the Transgenic Platform Fora, launched an appeal to the Portuguese authorities to stop using glyphosate in urban spaces and addressed a letter to the 308 chambers of the continent and also to the autonomous regions. And what do we have? They answered 112, having 94 admitted that they did not use and 18 that they no longer use glyphosate. This set of responses shows that this compound is omnipresent in the public space but also that there are alternatives that are in use in various municipalities, both urban and rural, because some have left aside the use of glyphosate. Some cameras, because of our action, have already said they were going to abandon glyphosate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u183	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u184	Mr President, in conclusion, I would say that on the initiative of the Left Block, a motion was also adopted, by a overwhelming majority, at the Algarve Intermunicipal Assembly and that motions are also being presented in municipal assemblies and Freguess assemblies. With this initiative presented here, the Left Block states that conditions are created for the prohibition of plant protection products containing glyphosate in urban areas, in leisure areas and communication routes. It will be an important step towards eradicating this herbicide.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u185	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u186	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that the CFP has made a recommendation to this House that the use of fitophharmacs be studied in the agricultural area, which is an important step and that we follow, also hoping that the CFP will accompany this initiative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u187	Mrs. Members, the debate of Bill No 232 / XIII ( 1 ) is concluded. ( a). I remind everyone that today is International Museum Day, which is a way to overcome glyphosate with another type of cultural interests. At the request of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, we shall generally proceed to the vote of Bill No 232 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and channels of communication ( BE). In the meantime, Mr. Secretary will report on the file entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u188	Mrs. Members have entered the Bureau, and the motions for resolutions Nos 9 / XIII ( 1 ) have been accepted. ( a ) — Approves for accession the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Room Service for Fishing Ships, STCW-F Convention adopted in London on 7 July 1995 which falls to 2. the Commission, 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain on Defence Cooperation signed in Baiona on 22 June 2015 which falls to 2. the Commission, and 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Intercalar Economic Partnership Agreement between the Ivory Coast, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Abidjan on 26 November 2008 and Brussels on 22 January 2009, which falls to 2. the Commission ; draft resolution No 323 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the procedure leading to the sale and resolution of the International Bank of Funchal ( BANIF ) ( President of the HR ) ; and draft decision No 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes that the National Education Council develop a study in order to measure the cost structure of public and private and cooperative education with an association contract ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u189	I ask the services to prepare the system to proceed with the verification of the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 198 presences, to which the honourable Members add. Deputies Amadeu Alberbergaria and Paula Teixeira da Cruz, do PSD, Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and Paulo Trigo Pereira, do PS, Jorge Duarte Costa, do BE, perfezing 203 deputies, so we have quorum to proceed to vote, in general, of Bill No. 232 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and channels of communication ( BE). Let us then vote. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP and with votes in favour of PS, BE, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u190	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u191	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u192	Mr President, you will certainly guess that it is to announce the presentation of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u193	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Paula Teixeira of the Cross asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u194	Mr President, the absence of scientific debate is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-18.u195	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. So we have enough scientific debate so that we can close our meeting today, since we have reached the end of our work today. The next meeting will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. and the next item is Question No 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Education policies ( CDS-PP ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 33 minutes.]]
