ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. First of all, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Emilia Santos, to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and the projects of lein.o 215 / XIII ( 1 ) were admitted. ( a ) — Replies the holiday scheme in public service, including the right to 25 days of annual holidays and additional holidays based on age, by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( PCP ) and 216 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assigned the right to 25 days of annual holidays, making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). Projects are down to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u3	Mrs. Members, pursuant to Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, we will conduct a current debate required by the PSD on private and cooperative education. To open the debate, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am going up to this forum to talk about a problem that should not actually be happening at least right now. I do so with all determination, with the determination of who is on the side of the reason and on the side of the local people, with the conviction that the State, even with this government, must honour its word. More than freedom of choice today, we will discuss the social insensitivity of this Ministry.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u6	The problem is that, Mr President, the previous Government has opened a transparent invitation to tender for the State's financial support to choose the private and cooperative educational establishments which have met the conditions necessary for the conclusion of association contracts for three consecutive academic years. He therefore signed a multi-annual contract which allowed a reduction in value per class but which allowed greater stability and predictability to these schools to allow them to adjust their offer. It happens that the current Ministry of Education, through a surgical order and a misinterpretation of the wrong regime, which denies the multi-annuality of contracts, is calling into question private and cooperative education. The Ministry of Education, BE, the PCP, The Greens, the radical period of the Socialist Party, and the management of the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers), are calling into question the survival of these establishments, are calling into question thousands of teachers' jobs, are putting into question thousands of employees' jobs, are challenging the cycle transition of thousands of students in their school course and undermining the legitimate expectations of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u8	Mr President, the stability and predictability of educational policies are fundamental to the further improvement of the public education service. It is essential to build commitments that contribute to the stability of educational policies and to mobilize people for greater involvement in the fields of education and training. Stability, weighting and predictability are, in fact, non-existent words in the action of the current ministerial education team. [[PSD applause.]] Let's see: in a single school year, students and families were confronted with three changes in the students' external evaluation system. instead of promoting the stability of the teaching body in schools,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... the Ministry of Education in the teaching contest for the year 2016 / 2017 opened only 100 new places in the paintings, repeat, 100 new places. in the most acute period of the difficult adjustment programme, the former government tied to the tables of the Ministry of Education an average of about 1000 teachers per year. What now? Now, in this farce, it is beyond the interests of students and families to introduce a new instability, causing a climate of social confrontation, through an erroneous interpretation of the commitments signed by the Portuguese State with private and cooperative schools with an association contract, an interpretation that further aggravates the concerns of the professionals in this sector and of course of the students and their families, who confront themselves with guidelines and decisions which they do not understand and which, therefore, cannot accept. The Ministry of Education is actually running away from the three-year commitments made by the Portuguese State to third parties. This is clear to all, of course, to those who have been involved in the process and to those who have signed the contracts in force for another two years. from there the surprise and shock caused in the sector, in parent associations and even in moderate trade union structures, regarding the new understanding of the protection of agreed multi-annual contracts. The PSD has the understanding that the Portuguese State is a good person...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u9	That's it now! And when were you guys there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u10	... and that it must fulfil the commitments it has made, under the penalty of questioning the principle of trust which must govern its action. Multi-annual contracts signed between schools and the State must be completed, Minister for Education! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not accept being told that we are against the public school of the state, we do not accept! [[Don't you?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u11	Our 42-year-old story as a party proves it, anyway.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u13	We do not accept that they tell us that we want to privatize education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u14	Don't! It's just to spend money!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u15	in the previous government, schools with association contract decreased, the number of classes decreased, the number of students decreased, the spending per school year decreased. We do not accept that we do not defend the criterion of efficiency. We defend it, based on local realities and its social impacts. On the other hand, it is not true that these schools do not accept students with special educational needs. It is not true that these schools do not accept institutionalized students. It is not true that these schools do not accept students from all socio-economic conditions. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mrs. Members on the left, visit these schools, have no fear and will confirm what I say here and perhaps radicalism will moderate and avoid another mistake in this Ministry. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mr President, we cannot fail to denounce the deep ideological prejudice that is at the root of this problem, the total subjection of this Ministry to FenPROF and the reduction in transparency that this decision implies. With the multiannual contracts and the competition before them, transparency has been deepened.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u16	Mr President, from this moment on, the time spent is being cut in the time allocated to the stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u17	I will finish, Mr. President. The PSD is still very concerned about the serious social and economic damage that will result from an additional imposed decision of the current ministerial team, through which thousands of deprived families will suddenly see their expectations broken, which will lead to the greater collective dismissal that there is memory in the sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u18	Let it be that you guys have done the worst!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u19	... which will potentially contribute to the depopulation and economic atrophy of many local communities. Respecting, valuing and integrating the dynamics of schools, municipalities and communities is the only way to realize the principle of freedom of education in all its expressions and this should not be crossed by private interpretations or agendas. Because the State is a good person, because stability and predictability are fundamental social values, we consider it essential that the Ministry of Education, for a matter of justice for families, for students and for local communities, fulfill the material consensual interpretation...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u20	Consensual PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u21	... of the multiannual association contracts signed between private and cooperative schools and maintain it for the two years that are missing for the end of the same contracts. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u22	Mr President, the time spent will be cut in the time allocated to the stage of the debate. To intervene, you now have the floor of Mr.Education Minister, Tiago Brandão Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Being Minister of Education in Portugal involves a huge responsibility, to reconcile public duty with the decision on how best to allocate, monitor and enhance taxpayers' resources to the purpose for which they entrust us with their taxes, the public good, if any, the public good in education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having as a horizon what best serves the successful and fair learning of all our students, having as practice the fulfilment of legality. That's exactly what I do. That is precisely what we are also doing on the subject that we are being brought here today. The association contracts have emerged for two decades, not as a financing solution by the State to private and cooperative establishments, but because the Ministry of Education was missing from the country. in this exact measure, and not in another, he hired with privates, whose quality he has validated, for them to ensure transitionally something that he has always seen and that he has never failed to see as his obligation: to have a public school network as wide and coherent as possible in terms of financial and sustainability. With the expansion and requalification of the school network, in which the country has invested so much, it presents itself, naturally and healthyly, more coherent and complete than two decades ago. I am glad that the State, all of us, has fulfilled our duty, not entirely yet, but, fortunately, we have been able to make a significant leap in the realization of what has always been foreseen in the law of the foundation of the education system, a leap that can only make us proud.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u24	Sure! The Minister of Education — As the Government of the Republic, it is up to us to comply with the association contracts that finance private and cooperative classes that we validate with the public investment of EUR 80 500 per class and per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u25	The data is missing! Mr. Minister of Education—I insist : we will fulfil and fulfill the contracts, even if they have been signed by the previous Government, already at the end of the term of office, because they are contracts of the State. So we will do, and for the sake of stability, all students will complete, at the school where they are and so they want it, the entire course of their studies. For example, this means that a student who is currently in the 10th century. the year can end secondary education in the school where you are, even there is public offer in your area of residence. [[All right!]] Mr. Minister of Education — Nothing moves us against the private agents of education, nothing moves us, including against public funding to actors deprived of educational functions that the State has not yet been able to carry out; on the contrary, as is the case with the association contracts in force and validated, as is the case with pre-school and artistic and vocational education, and as is the case where the State cannot ensure the national education service at the levels that citizens require, and well so require. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are excellent private schools and there are excellent public schools. We don't forget him and we don't forget him all. [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]] Everyone has one place, they can't have all the same place, we don't have the resources to do so. Respect for the State budget requires us to use it as necessary and not as redundant, not duplicating the invoice paid by the taxpayer. It requires us to validate contracts whose agreed conditions are effective and whose intended purposes are achieved, especially when we enter in 2016 a significant budget to finance the association contracts signed by the previous Government, especially when existing resources are not yet the ideals to achieve all that the national education service deserves, especially when it is important to provide public schools with human, financial and pedagogical resources that continue to improve their quality. Politically, we will always defend the public school we want to improve. [[P.S. and MP.P.P.P. Paula Santos.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] That is why and for this there is a Ministry of Education of the Republic. Legally, we'll always be a good person, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, fulfilling the agreement with good faith, reasonableness and weight. That is why and for this reason the State contracts with others what it is and still cannot assure, as it is. Financially, we will always be ambitious and responsible. Embious in the purposes that we wish to achieve, responsible for the efficiency with which we manage the public money, in favour of the public good. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is and there will be freedom to guarantee to all that, while fulfilling the fairness that is required in a democratic society, there will always be a public offer, or publicly contracted, of quality and free throughout the national territory and which generates, in the education sector, many jobs where they are most needed. For society to be increasingly cohesive and balanced territory, the national education service is most likely the most perennial public service, from North to South, from the Interior to the Coastal and it is for all of us, I am sure, a pride that it is and that it continues to be. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u26	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no registered speakers, and I therefore call on the various banks to register. If there are no entries, I will finish the debate. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the second half of previous legislation, the Ministry of Education began a process of restricting the financing of association contracts, given the need for budgetary cuts. this process resulted in the publication of Decree-Law No. 152 / 2013, the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education, which determined that schools with association contract, and I quote: « They have finally made possible the frequency of private and cooperative schools under conditions identical to those of education taught by public schools, leaving these educational establishments obliged to accept the enrolment of all students up to the limit of their placement, following the priorities identical to those established for public schools. The State shall take into account the existing needs and quality of supply, safeguarding the principle of competition". This means that there is no discrimination between State schools and private and cooperative education and that they are no longer merely complementary. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS Member Odete João.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u28	Now, as I know, this Decree-Law is still in force. Public tenders were opened for the conclusion of new contracts which, in accordance with Portaria No 172 -A / 2015, were opened in Article 3. the, were carried out « (...) with a triennial periodicity, (...) », i.e., public tenders every three years, pending which the contractual conditions remain. Moreover, it was the Secretary of State herself who recognized it in the Commission on 26 January, and I quote: « Until, as you know and mention, contracts that have been concluded are multi-annual contracts by cycles. Which means that we are really talking about contracts that can be started by 2018 for three years». Well, let me know these contracts are in force. As a result of these measures, schools with association contracts had as a whole a cut of more than 30 % in funding. Still, overall, educational communities have gained stability and predictability. Already with this government was published the Norm No. 1 - H / 2016, of 14 April, without prior consultation, I repeat, with a dispensation of hearing of interested persons and of it result three negative consequences. First, a negative discrimination as to the possibility of frequency in these schools, now limited to the location of supply, in a more restrictive amendment than that applied to State schools, where residence only defines a priority. Second, the decision on the number of classes to be opened in these schools is taken again in the opacity of the offices, with criteria not known, rather than through public, electable and subject to the Court of Auditors visas as has happened with the previous government. Third, it generated immense instability that, in May, at the end of the school year, offers teachers and non-teachers the risk, as regards their job, and parents and students the uncertainty about the school in which they will be in the next 5. o, 7. o or 10. the years—if at the school of your choice, if at the school of choice of Mrs. Secretary of State. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Amadeu Soares Albergaria.]] Mr Minister tells me: « Above all, I gave priority to public school and saved money from the state ». As far as savings are concerned, you know that I disagree, objectively and factually, but the account will be made and the amount of EUR 55 million will have to be included in job termination compensation. And as for ideology, Minister, Secretary of State, we know that we think differently. But at the moment, it is not about discussing ideology, it is simply about respecting, honoring and fulfilling the contracts and commitments that the State has celebrated with these schools and, with this, going to meet the populations of Caminha, Barcelos, Braga, Vila Nova de Famalicão, Santo Tirso, Amarante, Santa Maria da Feira, Vagos, Coimbra, Pombal, Covilhã, Braga, Alcobaça and Ourem, who have already approved in their municipal assemblies, motions with this same request. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] And, Mr Minister, to meet the near future, already in September this year, of 1125 teachers, of 675 non-teachers, of 17 123 students and families of all of them, who depend on their decision on these schools, all those in the state and in themselves have trusted for more two years of stability in their lives. All 38 000 who meet today in 53 schools to embrace and defend the school that is theirs. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u29	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS, which over the past four years have created false expectations, violating the Basics Law of the Educational System, have now been sowing destabilization, instrumentalizing teachers, employees, parents and students.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u32	PSD and CDS had an obligation to respect the complementary nature of private education in relation to public education, but they violated the law, diverting students from public schools to private schools. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u33	PSD and CDS had the duty to comply with the Basic Law of the Education System and to ensure that only where there was no public network coverage would the State ensure temporary contractualization with private schools. Instead, they violated the law, emptied public schools and fired teachers and employees, opting to fund private schools with public money, where there was network coverage.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u34	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u35	PSD and CDS had a duty to care about individuals in private and cooperative education. on the contrary, they have never been concerned about the fact that the collective contract that further defends the rights of teachers has expired and that schools do not want to negotiate a new collective contract that guarantees their rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u36	The instability and other problems that exist today are the result of the action and options of various governments, especially the previous PSD/CDS government and its practice of violating the Basic Law of the Educational System and the Constitution. The perspective of the PCP on this issue is the same as we have always said and is quite different from what it defends and what makes the PSD and CDS. in the last four years, PSD and CDS have chosen to dismantle the public school and to finance the privatization of education with the money of the State budget. We understand that the obligation of any government is to defend, improve and extend the response capacity of the public school, because that is what contributes to the democratization of education. We know that the public network is insufficient and, therefore, it is necessary to resort temporarily to private schools where there is no public school, to association contracts until this shortage is completed. This contractualization must be subject to strict and objective criteria, such as a proposal that we presented with criteria for financing association contracts, a proposal that was rejected by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u37	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u38	Now, PSD and CDS opt to launch alarm and panic, waving threats of closures and dismissals. [[PSD protests.]] The CFP opts to affirm the need to invest in the expansion and quality of public school and to defend that teachers and private school officials have equal rights with those of public school. [[Tell me what you know!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u39	PSD and CDS are not really concerned with teachers, employees, parents or students, who have only been instrumental in obtaining immediate political gains from this destabilization. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u40	The CFP will continue firmly and calmly to defend the right of all children and young people to equality in school access and success, such as universalization of education, without discrimination on the basis of economic and social conditions, with full respect for the rights of teachers and non-teachers and investment in a free public school, of quality, inclusive and for all. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u41	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to welcome the opportunity that we have to explain to the country on this issue of association contracts and what is concerned with this office. I would like to ask a question to the taxpayers' party and the champion party in the court of public expenditure. There are at least 16 classes financed by the taxpayers in Coimbra, at 80,500 € each, in an area where there are eight public schools, with empty classrooms that could and would like to receive these students.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u43	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u44	Santa Maria de Lamas College has 74 classes funded at 80 500 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u45	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u46	They opened, in this contest, number two. o is number three. the cycles, 19 classes and they all took place in public school. I'm asking the ladies. PSD and CDS Members whether or not this is an abuse of taxpayers' taxes and whether or not it is a public expenditure that should be cut. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u47	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u48	Is it whether or not it is to finance private colleges, decreeing the bankruptcy of the public school? in whose interest is this done? in the interest of taxpayers? in the interest of the deficit? in the interests of the country? in the interests of children? Or in the interest of colleges? Is it possible to do better than this or not? It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u49	Go talk to your parents!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u50	And what this office came to do is do better. This office returns the rationality that was suspended by interests. Tell me the following: if the legal instruments of the competition refer to the geographical area of supply is why there is a need, according to the network analysis, or is it because there is a college waiting for funding and that they want to finance? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u51	What if the college of that parish makes it possible for the contest to be open to its parish and not to a larger geographical area, because it does not have competition and receives funding, why will it then look for students to the other parish and, if necessary, other councils to complete its classes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u53	What this office says is very simple: if the opening of new classes of start-of-cycle—not those already there but the opening of new classes of start-of-cycle—is justified by the lack of public offer, then the colleges cannot walk from municipality to municipality, from parish to parish, looking for students to complete the classes and receive the €80,500. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u54	So, colleges can't go looking for students who take place in public school to complete classes to fund the private. What this office says is that the contracts are in respect of the course of the students who have already started the cycle, but there can be no new contracts for new cycles without a network analysis. Here, the question is why this never existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u56	What's the news? Unless the colleges have been diverting students who took place in public school in mass, this measure should have no impact at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u58	in one way or another, it is in fact a better management of public money in education and therefore we congratulate the government. [[Congratulations from BE and PCP MP João Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u59	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this debate today on private and cooperative education, it is appropriate to start by clarifying what is at stake. We are not discussing the freedom to teach and learn. [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u61	No one questions the freedom to create private and cooperative schools;... [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u62	... families have the freedom to choose these schools instead of public schools;... [[They've got...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u63	... the state does not interfere in the educational project of these schools, nor in their management; the degrees conferred by these schools are recognized. Therefore, the freedom to teach and learn is not at stake but funding. It is legitimate to discuss funding, it is legitimate for school owners to want to discuss the business model and try to get more funding from the state, but it is not legitimate to confuse the issues. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u64	What happens is that the government is doing careful and rigorous management of public money,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u65	Oh, yeah? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u66	... as it is your duty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, of course, the Socialist Party would not agree that, on behalf of the management of public money, if they disregarded the commitments of the State. For this reason, the previous legislation and practice of the previous government have been enough. Association contracts signed by the previous Government will be respected. The number of classes provided for in the contracts shall be financed by the amounts fixed by the contracts. All students will be able to continue and complete the cycle of studies they are attending in the class they are currently in. In addition, new classes of start-up studies will be funded, depending on the needs identified by the careful evaluation of the ongoing network. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some bet on the ideological charter to beautify claims that relate only to financing. For let us be clear: here there is only one ideology, which consists of respecting the laws of the country and, of course, the Constitution and the Basic Law of the Educational System.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u68	There is no legislative novelty in what the government is doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The new thing is that this government complies with the law and performs the contracts in accordance with the rules of the tenders that gave rise to those contracts. And so it is not admitted that the public school is treated as a supplement to private school,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... do not allow the unacceptable practice of closing classes in the public to artificially create space for classes in private. We cannot accept this, because we have a democratic obligation to promote equal opportunities in access to education. We are sure that, in decisions taken by the Ministry of Education in terms of network management, no entity will be harmed or benefited for ideological reasons. Decisions on the courses to be opened will take into account local needs and the careful management of public resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, when it comes to managing the educational supply network, we are dealing with difficult problems. Some warn that there may be unemployed teachers. in reality, there is already unemployment of teachers, especially in public school, since there are much less students, is the demographic reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u69	Are there fewer students now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u70	In the last seven years alone, we have lost more than 137 000 students and more than 30,000 teachers. however, this reality did not also affect public and private schools. What was done in the previous legislation was systematically cut more in the financing of public education than in the financing of private education. Yes, Nuno Crato cut in everything, even in private education, but cut more in public education and, therefore, up to that, showed acting by ideological impulse. So, yes, there is a problem of teacher unemployment, and we need to be aware of that problem. But they have no authority to talk about it, those who in the previous government told the teachers that the way out for them was emigration. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] And we must also refuse the irresponsibility of those who use alarmism as a political weapon. It is the case of those who speak of imminent dismissal of 4000 teachers, in schools with association contracts. It is that, since multi-year contracts of three years are in force, it is completely unjustified that all teachers of these schools are threatening immediate dismissal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u71	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u72	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the freedom of each family to choose either the public system or the private system remains unchanged. But association contracts are not tools to promote the freedom of choice of families, because they directly finance school owners and not families. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] And no, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members, close a public school to open a private school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u73	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u74	... this does not promote freedom of choice, it does not promote equality of opportunity, nor does it respect the law. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u75	You have the floor, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentary Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u76	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: I would also like to welcome the conduct of this debate, until perhaps it allows us to clarify some matters on the subject under discussion. First, what the law says is that private school with association contract is complementary to public school. This has a meaning: when public school responds, it makes no sense to conclude an association contract with a private school. Partnership contracts with private schools do not mean that private schools suddenly acquired a vital right. This right is a transitional remedy until the public school responds. The ideal is what? It is that public school can respond to the needs of citizens. If citizens make another option of education, particularly families, they will naturally have other resources. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and CDS, remember one thing: it is not fair that a private school holds an association contract in a territory where the public school can respond, when another private school has no association contract and is exactly in the same circumstances. And you, who are always so concerned about competition, should also understand this matter. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about in our view — and we have already had the opportunity to congratulate Mr Prime Minister, particularly in the fifteen-year debate, on this option being taken — is that this option is as simple as compliance with the law. I think this is a perfectly basic thing. It is EUR 139 million, provided for in the State budget, for association contracts. Is it possible to allocate part of this money not to what it is intended for but to value and finance the public school? So, yes, let it be done, because funding to public school, valuing public school is a determining issue in the perspective of the Greens. It is clear that from those who have led the entire mandate to subfinance public school, to devalue public school, something else would not be expected not to propose a continuation of this policy in the next term and, in particular, by the hands of others. What I also think is important to mention and perhaps to disassembly is that we will not suddenly remove the boys and young people from the classes where they are currently inserted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u77	It's slow!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u78	The classes will continue until the end of their cycle. The different thing is to open new classes at the beginning of the cycle in private schools, in a particular territory where the public school can respond to these new classes. of the matter, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to rationalise financial means and to bet on public school. On the other hand, the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, seeking to hold on to everything that is argument, come to talk about the issue of dismissal of teachers - this is absolutely loaded. It is because those who say this are the ones who have worked an entire mandate to fire public school teachers in mass, as there is no memory in our country. And, as already mentioned, it is also those who have traced as their destination for these unemployed teachers to visit other countries, in an emigration logic. Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a bit of shame about the arguments they are bringing! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u79	Shame? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u80	Even because opening new classes in public school necessarily means more means and more teachers in public schools for the follow-up and teaching of these children and young people. Therefore, if resources are needed, these resources will necessarily have to be found where these children are being taught, and therefore more children in public school necessarily mean more human means, teaching and non-teaching personnel, in public schools. Anyone who wants to favour public school cannot be against the measure announced. Anyone who wants to devalue public school, of course, will manifest itself against the measure announced. Rationalization of means and valorisation of public school—that is why the Greens have always fought, and that is of course what the Greens continue to defend. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u81	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the same situation again: there are no speakers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u82	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u83	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u84	Mr President, it is only to ask — and finally — whether any other parliamentary group will intervene, because there is an understanding that, when these agendas are made, as is the case, the proposing party will have to close the debate. So if no one else intervenes, we will do our intervention. Otherwise, I would ask the other parliamentary groups to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u85	You're absolutely right about understanding. Now, the Bureau cannot replace the parliamentary groups, with no registrations. Therefore, if there are no inscriptions within five seconds, the debate will end, or then I give the floor to Mrs Nilza de Sena. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Joana Mortágua enrolled herself. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u86	Mr President, I think we are still in time to pick up some arguments where they should be. And there are arguments that do not belong to this side, for the most part. However, if, on behalf of resource management, the former PSD and CDS government closed schools in 1. the cycle inside, without wanting to know how far the boys would have to travel to the schools where they went,... [[False! That's in the law!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u87	... if with the previous government, the country lost more than 30,000 teachers in pre-school, basic and secondary, if the former government asked to cut in public school higher than the one it did in private school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u88	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u89	...then, there are arguments that do not suit you. There are arguments in your mouth that do not have credibility, because there are no teachers who can believe that, in your name, the PSD and CDS defend private schools. If so, then the labour rights of these teachers were not systematically abused in these private schools. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u90	If so, the teachers of private schools had no school hours higher than that of the public school, they had no wages lower than that of the public school, they had no contracts more precarious than those of the public school. Where is your concern? [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u91	Mrs. Joana Mortagua, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u92	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that what we are saying is: opening classes financed by public money where there is a lack of public education service. Delivering €80,500 to a college for a class that takes place in the public is an income, it is a subsidy that is being generated to these colleges. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u93	And you, who respect so much and glorify the virtue of private logic and markets,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u94	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u95	... they certainly don't think colleges have to live on account of an invoice that we're paying. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u97	Mr President, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, I am very pleased to hear you speak in credibility, especially after yesterday, when you here, in this very House, have plunged a package of measures to support family and birth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u98	It was political fraud!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u99	...because the big issue was employment and what needed was to generate jobs. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And now, it doesn't cost you anything, given that credibility, to promote the greater collective dismissal of teachers. That is why, Mrs Deputy, as regards credibility, I think we are talking about. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: in this debate there is no question of closing schools, nor has there ever been any intention in this regard, which is at stake here, to respect the complementary nature of private education in relation to public education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u103	What happened and is happening right now is the direct responsibility of the PSD and the CDS, because they clearly violated the law when they did not ensure that association contracts were used exclusively where there is a shortage of the public network, which is what the law currently provides. [[PCP applause.]] More, sirs. Members : They talked about pretense concerns with teachers, parents and students. But where has this concern been when your government has been responsible for the dismissal of 25 000 teachers in the past four years? That was the reality! [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Where the gentlemen were. Members of the PSD and CDS when today the only collective contract that exists in private schools made the time to be extended by 20 %, leading to the dismissal of 20 % of teachers? Where have you been? We have not heard the concerns of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u104	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u105	I shall conclude by saying that we all know — and I am glad Mrs Ana Rita Bessa referred to the birth — that there has unfortunately been a reduction in the school population. But why does this reduction only have to have an impact on public school? Why can't this reality of our country have an impact on private school?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u106	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u107	Mr President, I conclude by saying that it was clear in this debate that the concern of the PSD and the CDS is not with the teachers, with the parents and much less with the students, because if they had invested in public school, they had not contributed to their dismantling, and what is underlying here is, in fact, the defense of a perspective, the privatization of education. Mr. President, I appreciate your tolerance. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us focus on the nature of this debate. contrary to what the parties on the left and the extreme left today brought the debate, it is not here to discuss freedom of choice. [[BE's protests.]] Today's debate was not about the quality of education, nor was it about the efficiency of public resources, as Mr Porfirio Silva wanted to believe. What is at stake today is the good name of the State, because instead of the State fulfilling its word and allowing the sector and populations to be properly adjusted, choosing free and quality public education for their children, the State breaks commitments abruptly, unpredictable and hastily, introducing instability in the lives of families, students, teachers, as it has been, in fact, the zeal of this government. What's in issue here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the violation of the principle of trust and the state as a good person. [[PS and BE protests.]] Mrs. Members, today's perspective on this debate, promoted by the left side of the parliamentary benches, is the following: the parties that defend workers on Wednesdays and Thursdays, promote a collective dismissal, a mass dismissal, which is proposed with this measure; the parties that on Wednesdays and Thursdays defend that there are many students and that there is a need to reduce the number of students per class, come here today to say that there are fewer students. What is also at issue is, dramatically, a deep social insensitivity... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u110	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to let Mrs Nilza de Sena finish her speech. You may continue, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u111	... and the way the current Minister, in a very messy and incompetent manner, protects the educational folder. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u112	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are faced with the greatest discretion in support ever seen in 30 years,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] [[Oh, yes, yes! It's to help your friends! It must be!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u113	... where it doesn't want to support those who need it, it's interested in supporting those who are more friends, it's interested in giving contracts to those who are more friends. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] It doesn't matter who needs it most! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tell Mr. Minister to fulfill the contract that is established, to comply with the law. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u114	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item on our agenda. We will move on to the second point, which is part of the general discussion of Bill No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates access to administrative information and reuse of administrative documents, including in environmental matters, transposing Directive 2003/4 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on public access to environmental information, and Directive 2003/98 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 as amended by Directive 2013 / 37 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the reuse of public sector information. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this bill establishes a new legal regime with a double objective: to regulate access to administrative information and to establish the system of reuse of administrative documents. The same diploma also includes the system of access to environmental information. [[At this time, he took the presidency of Vice-President José de Matos Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u116	Mrs. Minister, excuse me for interrupting you to ask the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet so that we can hear it. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u117	In this way, two European directives are transposed: one directive on the reuse of administrative documents and another on access to environmental information. The substance of the Aarhus Convention, of which Portugal is a party, has also been preserved in environmental matters. The bill thus implements one of the guidelines of this Government on legislative simplification by consolidating a single act of legislation, a single diploma, all that is indispensable to the knowledge of the rights of any citizen in matters of access to administrative documents and access to environmental information, both arising from the constitutional principle of open administration. The document essentially follows the systematic and substance lines of the previous Law No 46 / 2007 of 24 August, commonly known as LADA ( Law of Access to Administrative Documents ). however, this bill also enshrines some important developments, and here I would like to highlight some of them. Firstly, and in order to facilitate citizens' knowledge of all the information that must be public and not covered by a legal exception, the proposal enshrines a minimum content of information subject to Internet disclosure. Listed in Article 10. the, in respect of the obligations of all entities, and in Article 11. the, with regard to environmental information, we understand that these are the data whose knowledge guarantees and increases the transparency of public activities. These include data on the electronic address of the entities referred to, location and time for the face-to-face consultation of data, model for access and re-use of information, business plans, budgets, organic composition and other management instruments, as well as environmental information on policies, plans, reports, impact studies and environmental agreements. In addition, it is intended that access can be made through centralised platforms such as data.gov, which proceed with the reference of information, and that the re-use of the data made available on the Internet is permitted and can be made free of charge. Secondly, the proposed law sets new limits on the setting of fees and the conditions that public entities may impose on the access and reuse of administrative documents in order to ensure effective compliance with the principle of open administration. Thirdly, the public and private entities to which the law applies have been extended, as is the case with the inclusion, within the scope of this law, of independent administrative entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u118	Mr. Minister, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u119	Fourthly, it provides for administrative documents to be covered by the constitutional and European system of protection of personal data, passing on the nomination documents to be the target of their exact level of safeguard. The question of constitutionality and consistency between the system of access to administrative documents and the system of protection of personal data is therefore resolved. Fifth, and in the same sense, it reinforces the guarantees of privacy of users of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u120	Mrs. Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u121	Mr President, I would like to ask you for one more minute. Finally, a limitation is proposed on the terms of reference of the Administrative Documents Access Commission ( CADA ). This proposal has made a number of contributions from external entities. It is worth saving as a last point — and I shall finish — that could have gone further with regard to the institutional framework for safeguarding the principles of open administration and protecting personal data. A number of countries, such as Germany, the United Kingdom, Slovenia and Canada, have adopted a model of concentration in the same entity independent of the competences that today belong to the CNPD ( National Data Protection Commission ) and to CADA. It is a simplifying option that I leave to this Parliament's reflection. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u122	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The principle of open administration is really an essential pillar of a demanding and always dissatisfied democracy with itself. And this bill affirms this principle as an essential pillar of our democracy. I therefore stress several merits of this bill: firstly, the rationality of the principle of re-use of public documents; secondly, the integration of access to general administrative documentation and specifically environmental documentation into a single legislative act; thirdly, the concept of a nominative document, which is returned to an understanding that seems correct to us and in accordance with Community rules on this matter, thus placing it as an administrative document containing personal data; and, finally, fourthly, the withdrawal of the re-use regime from the nomination documents, because if they have not been subject to an an anonymisation process, any reuse implies new processing of personal data and, therefore, implies compliance with the prescribed law on the protection of personal data. These are various merits that we wanted to underline. However, it is also true that the administration, which has the facilitation, within certain rules, of access to administrative documentation, cannot endanger another fundamental pillar of a demanding democracy that is the protection of personal data, and we find some shadows that, in honor of a loyal debate, I also want to identify. I want to identify three shadows, and with this end: firstly, we understand that allowing third-party access to nominal documents based on the relevant personal interest is to vulnerable the principle of the protection of sensitive personal data, such as, by hypothesis, political convictions, religious faith, private life or health. Can a insurer, for example, access nominal documents with data on someone’s health? You can't. Your interest cannot be legally accommodated. Here's the first shadow. Secondly, regulate the person's access to his or her health data, as is the case in Article 7. this bill, in a law that provides for the access of third parties to relevant documents in an administrative procedure, is not understood. In fact, I believe that it unduly restricts what must be a fundamental right. Finally, thirdly, it is not clear that it is explicitly excluded from this law in Article 1. the, access to documents covered by bank secrecy or tax secrecy and are at the same time included in the provision of the law documents that are subject to medical secrecy. Therefore, we believe that there is some discrepancy here that would be worth correcting. Finally, and because I cannot but mention this, even if it is not the subject of this law, I believe that it is time for this Parliament to take a careful look at the composition of the Committee on Access to Administrative Documentation. It is an incomprehensible composition, with 11 members, which we find to be truly excessive, including members for interference and Members as such. Therefore, we believe that it is time to revisit this composition and the Left Block is available to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u124	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Indeed, more than mere transposition of Directive 2013 / 37, what we find here is a particularly intense exercise of normative consolidation, on the one hand, and also of revisiting the main issues raised regarding access to administrative documents, on the other. Firstly, the framework of the Code of Administrative Procedure has changed. It is also necessary to update the provisions of the LADA and, on the other hand, to introduce the integration of environmental information as a matter of access to administrative information, which, although its application universe is distinct, is likely to be better uniformed through this model. On the other hand, in our perspective, the axis of administrative transparency and the axis of active transparency is also fundamental, with the provision of technology today in the availability of all services and all entities and allowing the fundamental texts and documents of each administrative body's activities to be available online and to be open and accessible to all citizens. The law also addresses a particularly central aspect that concerns access to health data, having an opportunity to clarify many of the doubts and even many of the misconceptions that an excessively oriented reading, either to the one side or to the other, with regard to the link between personal data and access to administrative documentation, has led to the application of the law. of the steps taken here, the concept of personal data is an operational concept for the two laws is fundamental, but it also seems to us that it is possible to deepen further, giving additional clues to the exact application of the link between the two regimes, in particular on the axis of the demonstration of direct, personal and legitimate interest of those who wish to access personal data, explicitly highlighting the principle of proportionality as a structural element for the access of third parties in these contexts of personal data, as well as a concern that must be expressed in the law on safeguarding fundamental rights. Some of the aspects which Mr. José Manuel Purez referred to have particular relevance, in particular the issues of access by himself to his health data, in which, eventually, the mediation of doctors is subject to review, since they are about data of themselves and a potentially corporate spirit of protection of access must be guarded so that everyone can always access their personal data, and then, of course, on the other axis — yes, worrying — which is that of access by third parties to data that is in the possession of public administrations, which is equally fundamental. Finally, and also in line with the speeches by either Mr José Manuel Pureza or Mr José Manuel Pureza, the issue of the composition of CADA ( Committee on Access to Administrative Documents ) is of course essential, but perhaps with an element which is also brought to this debate, and was brought within the framework of the contributions that have been made, looking at other entities who should also be mirrored in the composition of the Commission, in particular, taking into account, if we wish, the usual « clients » of the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, in terms of doubts, opinions and complaints. Just as the municipalities are a fundamental object of intervention, the parish is increasingly the subject of complaints and requests for opinion and therefore a representation of ANAFRE can in fact be justified in this context. On the other hand, since the merger of the LADA with the LAIA (Lei de Accesso a Información Administrative) is expressly made, the weighting of the representation of interests in the environmental area could also be justified. The composition of the committee — I am also speaking with some experience as a member of the committee — is often faced with the increase in the volume of activity and does not go far away from the scale of need, which must also be considered, in parallel with the need to revisit the framework of the administrative support services which are at the disposal of the committee itself so that its work, in an increase in the volume of activity, can be guarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u126	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u127	I shall conclude Mr. President. Finally, very telegraphically, I think that this will also be a good opportunity to consider reviewing a subject which has been discussed in the past legislature but has ended up not having approval and which concerns the classification regime. We had the opportunity to pass a new law on the regime of state secrecy. however, it remains without protection and non-consecration in the law a solid, guaranteeing regime of access to classified materials that come directly, because it is effectively one of the aspects that can condition access to administrative information and consequently produce a restriction of fundamental rights. If we also have the opportunity to do this exercise and this discussion in this context, I think we would enrich the legislative package which today, with great quality and an effort of transparency and clarity for the citizen, the government will present us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u128	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a unique day. What in the past was a normal consequence of Parliament's functioning is now a rarity. The legislative initiatives put forward by the Government are so few, so rare to date, so rare that as soon as they appear, we are aware of them. in politics everything has a meaning. This means that, contrary to what the parties of the left majority claim, their alleged agreements are not sufficient to generate legislative initiatives. This brings us to another interpretation. As you know, the Government has committed itself to presenting a timetable for all its legislative initiatives to submit to Parliament. We are almost at the end of the legislative session and no one knows the said timetable, because there are simply no legislative initiatives to schedule. But let's focus on what brings us here today. The first note that I wanted to leave you is that transparency in public administration, legislative simplification and the modernization of the state, contrary to what many boast, is not the exclusive heritage of any political force, they all made their contributions. in the recent past, the PSD in the government has moved forward with several measures in this direction. I remind the House of the profound changes made to the Code of Administrative Procedure, the launch of the portal of municipal transparency, the application of the Citizens' Map, the simplification of various licensings, the creation of clear rules for the appointment of high public administration positions, so current in the last 24 hours, and this just to mention some measures. But what is really important is that every new majority, every new government, add something to the benefit of the citizens. Adding is not to back down, it is not to reverse, it is not to revoke. It has to be synonymous with evolution, construction. Today, fortunately — and I repeat, fortunately — we note that this is what we are talking about and therefore this diploma does not deserve our fundamental disagreement. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diploma in question, however, closes the matter of high complexity, likely to collide with fundamental rights, which requires common sense, sense of balance and responsibility. in fact, when, for example, we talk about personal data or clinical data of patients, we must be able to reconcile the principle of administrative transparency with the right to personal data protection and the right to respect for privacy, and we will take into account, in particular, the reservations already expressed in opinions received in 1. the Commission. This is a demanding task, which requires serious discussion in the specialty, which requires sufficient openness to proposals for amendment, which abhors improper appropriations of history and selective memory lapses. on our part, we are ready for this debate. PSD is ready for this demanding task. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u130	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is always gratifying to revisit the debate on open administration in this House. Open administration has been an important way for the democratic regime. The Constitutional Review of 1989 and the First Law on Access to Administrative Documents of 1993 opened a virtuous way of access to administrative documents that is always important to go deeper, to update and, therefore, again we are reviewing this matter in order to introduce in the Access to Administrative Documents Act the changes that time is advising. There is, however, an issue which, from our point of view, lacks an in-depth debate, which has already been mentioned here, and that this bill, in terms of which it is not fully resolved, has to do with access to sensitive personal data which may be contained in administrative documents. But it is important to say that this is not a specific problem of access to administrative documents, this is a problem of protection of personal data. Of course, if there are personal data contained in documents held by the administration, there are also sensitive personal data held by private entities. Therefore, speaking of access to the most sensitive data, which are health data, clinical data, obviously, there are elements in the possession of public health institutions but there is also information about health in the possession of private entities, and the regime here is a problem of protection of sensitive personal data that has to be treated with an identity of regimes. There cannot be a different system of access to health data as they are in the possession of public or private entities and this problem must be fully solved. And whoever talks about health data speaks of other sensitive personal data, so considered constitutionally. And why do we say that this is not fully solved? Because the invocation of personal, direct and legitimate interest, even if it safeguards the principle of proportionality from our point of view, is not enough. Moreover, the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission draws attention to this. In other words, there must be a constitutionally protected interest so that it is possible to access this type of data. Therefore, it is not enough for an employer or a insurer to invoke a direct and personal interest in order to have access to health data from any citizen; this possibility of access must be made under a constitutionally protected interest, which in the example I have just given is clearly not the case. Therefore, this question should be deepened in the field of expertise in order to find an appropriate solution. One last thing I wanted to say, Mr President, and this concludes with regard to administrative documents, although it is not directly related to this legislative process. It was with some concern that we have recently, in the social communication, invoked the possibility of documents in the possession of the Banco de Portugal relating to special taxation regularisation schemes, the RRRTs could soon be destroyed, as the legislation regulating this matter provides that, at the end of 10 years, documentation on so-called tax forgivenesss can be destroyed. We understand that it must not be and we announce here that we will present a proposal, either in this legislative process or in another — probably in another — to significantly extend the period of compulsory preservation of such documents.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u132	I will ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u133	I will finish, Mr. President. It is not acceptable for the Portuguese State to see itself in the contingencies of wanting to provide evidence to the judicial authorities and that they have already been destroyed by existing legislation. I would therefore like to announce here, since we are talking about documents in the possession of the administration, that we will present a proposal so that the time limit for the compulsory preservation of the documents that the Banco de Portugal holds under the extraordinary fiscal regularisation plans is very extended. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u134	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : This proposal for a law is designed to regulate access to administrative documents and administrative information, in particular as regards environmental matters, while also transposing the directives of the European Parliament, of the Council, as regards the reuse of documents and information by the public sector. The Government therefore intends to merge the legal regime for access to administrative documents and the legal regime for access to environmental information into a single diploma. in the recent past, with regard to the initiatives of the Socialist Party, we have already discussed issues related to what is being discussed here today and the position of the CDS-PP is clear in this matter. I strengthen that we have always been, we are and will be advocates of the value of transparency in the exercise of public functions and, of course, of all the initiatives that, balancedly, promote or strengthen it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u137	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the recognition of the need to promote this same transparency and to ensure the effective access of citizens to relevant administrative information cannot in any way call into question other constitutional and fundamental principles and values of citizens, such as the protection of the privacy of private life associated with the protection of personal data. It is true that the use of information and communication technologies are essential pillars in the strategy of administrative modernization, but these areas pose new challenges both in the protection of citizens'rights, and even in the area of state security. We must therefore think deeply about these matters, considering that the value of transparency can never be understood as absolute value, because we must pay attention to the protection of other values constitutionally guaranteed to citizens. Therefore, we must not fail to follow the concerns and doubts raised in the opinion on this diploma issued by the National Data Protection Commission, which, despite recognizing that this bill presents a significant development in the sense of consistent transposition of Directives 2003 / 98 and 2003 / 37, in respect of Directive 1995 / 46, when the regime for the reuse of documents, and also by the law for the protection of personal data, does not cease to place reservations on several standards so that it is effectively guaranteed respect for the national and European legal system for the protection of personal data. This matter is lacking, as has already been mentioned by several Members. Members, a broad and deep reflection and discussion, so the CDS-PP will present proposals for amendments, in the field of expertise, in order to better ensure and safeguard all the legal and constitutional principles that are at issue in this very important area. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u138	Mrs. Members, let us now turn to point 3 of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 25 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A23 ( PCP ), 33 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A24 ( PCP ), 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of existing tolls and non-introduction of new ports into the ex-SCUT of the transmountain motorway ( A4 ) ( PCP ), 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by abolishing the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante ( PCP ) and 43 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A25 ( PCP ) from Bill No 73 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption of tolls in A22 ( via the Child ) ( BE ), in general, and of draft resolutions 224 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reduce by at least 50 % the cost of tolls in A22 until the works of EN125 are completed ( CDS-PP ), 46 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates at A23 ( BE ), 272 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates at A4 ( BE ), 273 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A24 ( BE ), 274 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A25 ( BE ), 283 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the reduction of the value of tolls on inland and road roads without adequate alternatives to mobility and safety ( PS ), 284 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by abolishing toll rates on the transmountain highway A4 ( The Greens) and 285 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the port collection system in the former SCUT ( PSD ). For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the user committees present in the galleries which, in recent years, have developed a courageous struggle for the abolition of tolls. [[PCP applause.]] The CFP has taken the initiative to schedule this debate because it is necessary to remove from the shoulders of the populations of the interior of the country and the Algarve the unsustainable burden of the tolls. That is exactly the objective of the draft resolutions that the CFP brings here today. We propose the immediate abolition of the motorways of the Beira Interior, the Beira Litoral and the Beira Alta, the Interior North, the Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro and the Algarve. Inland populations were particularly punished by the policy of exploitation and impoverishment of the former PSD Government / CDS-PP. They suffered the brute consequences of the policy of closing public services, lost hospital emergencies and health centres, schools, post stations and courts, lost parishioners and also saw the tolls to be imposed on their highways. As a result of ill-treatment, right-wing policy was impoverishing the populations of the country's interior, accentuated regional asymmetries, aggravated depopulation and desertification. in a framework of recession and economic stagnation, failure of micro and small enterprises and galloping growth of unemployment, the tolls came to add more crisis to the crisis...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u141	... when what was needed was exactly the opposite: a vigorous relaunching of the regional economies to ensure job creation and social progress. The users of the ex-SCUT were severely penalized by the tolls. With their lives infernated by the policy of rights settlement and income cutting, users have still been forced, in the last four years, to carry the burden of the tolls, a situation which has been aggravated by the absence of real alternatives to the now-held motorways. For example, the case of the Algarve : the EN125, in significant parts of its tracing, is an authentic urban artery with crossings, traffic lights and pedestrian corridors. Thousands of people who have been forced to stop using the Kid's Way because of the tolls had to face daily the Calvary of the long traffic lines and the entrails in EN125. With the introduction of tolls, a considerable part of the traffic of the former SCUT has moved to other roads aggravating road fatality on these roads. Here, again, the case of the Algarve : with the introduction of tolls on the Via do Infante, the number of road accidents at EN125 fired, resulting in an unbearable sacrifice of human lives. EN125 became again on the road to death. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To improve the mobility and accessibility of the interior of the country, to combat the deep regional asymmetries, to stop desertification and depopulation, to reduce road fatality, to improve the living conditions of the populations, to dynamize the local economies, it is necessary to immediately abolish the tolls within the country and in the Algarve. That's why you've been beating us for the past four years. That's what we propose here today. [[Congrats from the PCP and from Mr. BE Jorge Duarte Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u142	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I wanted to greet the fighters against the introduction of tolls on the Via do Infante and also on the former SCUT in the interior of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] There are several reasons to urgently end the tolls in both the Algarve and the other ex-SCUT. in this sense, the Left Block brings, at this time, to discuss a draft law on the A22 and some draft resolutions on some ex-SCUT of the interior of the country. The country, and particularly the populations of the Algarve and the interior, is watching live and live the attitude of the ladies and gentlemen. Members, protagonists of this House. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when they reach the final decision, the vote, have a minimum of decency and respect for whom they have chosen you and fulfilled the aspirations and demands of those peoples. If the application of the tolls in all the ex-SCUT was unfair, the tolls on the Via do Infante and on the streets inside were immorality and greater injustice. The application of the user/payer principle, included in the SCUT pathways, is an immorality, is a farce and is a medieval concept, because they have always told us that the non-application of tolls on these routes would serve to bridge avenues without alternative and there would also be measures of positive discrimination on the inland roads, which suffer the costs of interiority and also of the economic crisis. We are here discussing A23, A24, A25, A4 and A22. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will not have real reforms in the country if PPPs (public-private partnerships) remain untouchable. According to UTAO, only the net costs of the 2016 PPPs up to the end of the contracts will reach 10 209 million. It is more than EUR 1000 million per year and therefore a reform is necessary in fact. This is a scandal. It is an obscenity that is the State paying profitability rates of 5 to 17 %. This has only one name: they are genuine economic crimes and all those who have signed and those who persist in maintaining these tolls are indeed responsible. It is necessary to have the courage to end this robbery of the country while our people, from north to south, live at a minimum, with the most basic needs. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So let's start by canceling these tolls from the inside and also from the Via do Infante. Ladies and gentlemen, only the Via do Infante gives an annual damage of EUR 40 million. It is a disaster, a disaster, a tragedy that the Algarve, the country's main tourist region, has about 10,000 accidents, 130 deaths and 160 serious injuries per year. On the other hand, the entrepreneurs, the populations are all suffering from the economic crisis and the works that never end. It is an authentic calvary and with the summer almost coming will be the "perfect storm" if no immediate action is taken to cancel these tolls. Much of the Via do Infante, which does not have any technical characteristics of motorways, has been built with money from the European Community, so the tolls violate international treaties. In fact, it is necessary to abolish them immediately because they are ashamed of the Algarve and the Country. Every year, there are endless lines of cars near the Guadiana border and we see many motorists turning around and returning to Spain. The current Prime Minister, must not forget, he admitted, promised in the election campaign to finish with some tolls, especially in the streets of the interior and also in those of great tourist flow, as in the Algarve. It's necessary to keep those promises...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u144	Sir, I will ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u145	I will now finish, Mr President. The word given should be an honest word. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, if the tolls continue, the resistance will continue, the struggle will continue. from here I also make my symbolic protest so that they lift these same tolls, greeting the fighters who never shut up and who are against the tolls. [[At the moment, the deputy wore a reflective vest.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I simply say this: when the government proceeds with justice, the people are fair and loyal, but when the government is discriminatory, the people suffer and revolt. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u146	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a fact that we have a problem of embarrassment and some injustice in the tolls of the former SCUT. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u148	But this has a story: do you know who invented the former SCUT?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u149	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u150	Who said SCUTs were cost-free roads for users? It was the Socialist Party, former Minister João Cravinho, which obviously belongs to the best line of action of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u151	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u152	It's just that with money outside the Socialist Party, it only finds it easy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u154	But he has at least one kind thing: a few years later he repented and said that he recognized what a mistake it was to deceive, mislead Portuguese people, taxpayers, because SCUTs could never have no cost to taxpayers. I'm going further: do you know who introduced the tolls to the ex-SCUT? Look there — the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u155	I can't believe it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u156	Perhaps it is better to talk to Eng. José Socrates and Dr. Paulo Campos again to understand why they introduced to the one who is considered the worst and most ruinous business for the safes of the state in the introduction of tolls. You know what I'm talking about, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? of Great Lisbon and North, in which the Portuguese State had no responsibility for the payment of tolls, and the Socialist Government, in a famous renegotiation, took up 60 % of damage to the same SCUT.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u157	Well, remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u158	Pay who? Once again, the Portuguese taxpayer and all the populations of the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u160	And so I would say that it is the first episode of the Socialist Party's «word given, word honored».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u161	Your government didn't solve it, did it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u162	I'd like to go a little further. I see this outrage on the part of the honourable Members. Members of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block and, if they are truly interested in defending the populations of the interior and the Algarve, if all they say is true, that it is all injustice, a crime, it would be good—I do not know the extension of the Socialist Party's parliamentary leader—that, at your meetings, in the next State Budget for 2017, you would say: "As we are truly concerned about the Algarve and the interior of the country, we only vote the State Budget for 2017 if you abolish the tolls". That, yes, would be really taking on the fight of user committees...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u163	The CDS business is blackmail!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u164	...and, once and for all, solve the problem of the tolls. Now, you come with a practice of deception, you come wrong, you come to do 'numbers, but when you are faced with the problem, what do you do? Draft resolutions and no resolution. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr President, the CDS, in this matter, is completely coherent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u165	It's more of a political fraud!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u166	The CDS has always defended the user-payer principle. It has always argued that it is necessary for populations using this service to also contribute to the payment of that service. What the CDS has always defended is that whoever invests, who lives and who works inside or in depressed areas, whatever criteria we will have to find, deserves positive discrimination. That's our position. Given the specificity of the Algarve, which is the gateway, the visiting room of what it is, to see what it is, the motor of the Portuguese economy, which is the tourism, taking into account the specific circumstances of the Algarve, because it does not have an alternative and have a road that does not serve its populations and in which, above all, the fault of the non-conclusion of the work is of the governments, consistent with this, the CDS presented a specific draft resolution for the Algarve, proposing a reduction of the portage while the works last. We are consistent and we do not want to deceive anyone. Have the courage to take what they say and to introduce full exemption and abolition of tolls in the next State budget. If you do not do so, you are only here making a 'number' of political illusions and that is wrong for you. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u167	On behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party proposes to reduce the price of tolls on the motorways of the interior and on the Via do Infante. It is a responsible proposal, which does not call into question the execution of the budget and consolidation of the public accounts and is a proposal fulfilling an electoral commitment of the Socialist Party, assumed with the populations of the interior and the region of the Algarve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Word given, word honored.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u169	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u170	However, this debate requires that we remember responsibilities. It is recalled that it was the previous PSD/CDS government that generalized the introduction of tolls in the former SCUT.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u171	Ah, General! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u172	The intransigent and radical position on the right on the introduction and collection of tolls led the PSD to assume, at the time, the following: « There are no regional tolls, the principle must be very clear, or they pay everyone or no one else». And, in line with this decision, blind and highly harmful, the former Government eliminated exemptions and discounts that positively discriminated against the most disadvantaged regions. This decision was further aggravated by the absence of positive discrimination measures for populations and enterprises in less-favoured territories, as well as by the absence of positive discrimination measures for territories without adequate alternatives to mobility. The blindness of austerity has brought unbearable damage to these regions, which over the past four years have felt the degradation of mobility conditions, the decrease in quality of life and the drastic reduction in road traffic, leading to traffic returning to the old national roads, without minimum conditions of road flow and safety, with a consequent increase in road weakness. On the other hand, the decisions of the former Government in the area of health, with the closure of various health services; in the area of justice, with the closure of courts, in the area of communications, with the closure of post posts; in the area of local administration, with the extinction of phregueses and the blind austerity policy, which severely reduced the incomes of populations and businesses, have contributed, throughout the country, and especially in the interior territories, to the severe degradation of living conditions and to the deterioration of the competitiveness of regions. The strong consequences of these decisions for the development of these territories, for employment and for territorial cohesion advise a constant search for solutions at each time to ensure the replacement of the appropriate conditions for the competitiveness of the regions and for equal opportunities for people and businesses. It is necessary to create the conditions to reverse this situation. It is necessary to create policies that allow for adequate and efficient use of available resources and infrastructures that are not fully used by practices and policies adopted in a recent past. It is necessary to create new strategies, including the use of positive discrimination practices. For these reasons, the Socialist Party proposes to reduce the price of tolls on the motorways of the interior and on the Via do Infante in the shortest possible time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u173	Let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u174	Unfortunately, PSD and CDS do not support this proposal. What the PSD and CDS come to propose is just as much that they were not able to comply with. They promised a new toll collection model, but they were four years in government and were unable to replace the toll collection model that they both criticized in election campaign. The PSD and CDS have been in government for four years and have chosen not to reduce the price of tolls on the motorways of the interior and on the Via do Infante.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u175	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u176	on the contrary, not only did they not reduce the price of the tolls, as they eliminated the exemptions and discounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, reading the draft resolutions on the right no longer seems like a new fake session, as if it had not been government in the last four years. They had four years to implement what they are proposing to Parliament today. They weren't able or didn't want to. The PSD and the CDS have in the Socialist Party's proposal a good opportunity to apologize to the interior and Algarve regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u177	To speak on behalf of The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, to welcome the various committees of users who are here with us today for the work they have been developing in defence of the rights of the people, but also as a contribution to the development of their regions. As it is known, unfortunately, the districts of Vila Real and Bragança integrate the set of districts in our country that present worse economic and social indicators. According to the 2011 census, these two districts have lost almost 30,000 residents, numbers which have been worsening in recent years, the result of the policies of the various governments, especially for the previous government, the PSD / CDS government. We are talking about policies that have led to the closure of schools, health centres, courts, which has led to the abandonment of lands, to the depopulation of the rural world, to the increase of unemployment and also to emigration. According to studies conducted in the Bragança district, this region lost about 30% of young people and the difference between the number of deaths and that of births almost doubled from 1996 to 2013. But to reverse this picture in inner districts, such as Vila Real and Bragança, must therefore be a national imperative and it is therefore necessary that public policies seek to ensure territorial cohesion, combat asymmetries and promote equality among all citizens. in this context, the no introduction of motorway tolls was always justified with the need to compensate the regions of the country with positive discrimination measures, taking into account the existing regional disparities. however, in a recent past, the PSD/CDS government — Mr Hélder Amaral is wrong — put the poles to work,
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u179	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u180	It's true! Who installed the porticos was the pre- penultimate government, but who put them to work was the PSD / CDS government. At the time the government took possession, no tolls were paid yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u181	They could have turned them!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u182	They were back in time! Don't make them work! If it was unfair, they wouldn't make them work! It was easy! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] the day the PSD/CDS government took possession, no tolls were paid in the ex-SCUT! End point!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u183	The lie has a short leg!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u184	And this happened not only in the Algarve, but also on the transmountain highway and other highways that today are also the subject of discussion through several legislative initiatives. [[It's a lie!]] [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u185	Mr. President, I wish I could continue my speech... We are talking about the Way of the Child, A23, A24 and A25.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u186	It was the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u187	I shall repeat, because perhaps Mr Manuel Frexes did not hear: when the PSD government took possession of no tolls in the former SCUT, it was the former government that put them to work! End point! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] These routes should not have costs for users, because the two premises justifying the non-application of tolls are present. On the one hand, because they are located in regions whose socio-economic development indicators are lower than the national average and, on the other hand, because there are no alternatives to offer to the road system. Therefore, since these premises are present, these paths should never be the object of tolls. But that is not what happened, which has further compromised the right to mobility of citizens, who were already weakened in terms of mobility, especially with the closure of railway lines. In addition, the introduction of tolls on these roads has also contributed decisively to weakening the quality of life of populations, especially those with less resources, but also causing a strong loss in the competitiveness of these regions. with regard to the transmountain highway, it is good to remember that, in large part, A4 was built on top of the IP4, leaving the private populations of an alternative to road mobility. Therefore, in this sense, the Greens Ecological Party considers that the Government should be recommended to abolish the A4 tolls and that the Government should not install new ports throughout the cross-mountain motorway. On the other hand, I would like to add that the Greens follow the remaining proposals that are currently under discussion, with a view to abolishing tolls on the Via do Infante and on the motorways of the interior. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u188	For an intervention on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall begin my speech in this debate by quoting: 'SCUTs pay themselves and generate budgetary surpluses. The investment made in the construction of SCUTs has a positive effect on private investment, employment, product and tax revenues throughout the country ». Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, these statements were made in this House in November 2005 by the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation and Regional Development. Do you know what this different parliamentman was called? Do you want to guess? I give help: a few years earlier I had been the Minister of Equipment in the Socialist Government that introduced the SCUTs in Portugal. Exactly, they guessed: it was Eng.o João Cravinho! He made these statements. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u190	A few years later, after the socialist party of PPPs and the School Park and the Government of Eng.o Socrates left the country in bankruptcy and tied to a Draconian assistance program—see VV. For example, the Socialist balance sheet is clearly reflected in a report by the Ministry of Finance 2012, which recalls : « The updated value of the State's future gross charges arising from contracts established until 2012 with private partners is estimated at EUR 24 407 million ». I repeat, EUR 24 407 million, representing around 15 % of GDP in 2012. Only the value of the invoice of the road PPPs of the Government of Eng.o Socrates, either sub-concessions, or the Marão tunnel, in an updated value of gross charges, would be EUR 10 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u191	Vote for the PS project? That's what we want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u192	Mr. João Paulo Correia, I have a picture that I will offer you to put in your office so that you will never forget who is responsible for concessions and PPPs in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u193	It's to see if he learns, he doesn't know what he says! It's to learn! Read to learn any little thing, who doesn't know what he says!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u194	Is the PSD in favour of or against the payment of tolls?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u195	It is, therefore, with some curiosity, but above all, with a strange feeling that we heard the PS, which completely denies its past and, above all, the legacy that it left to the Portuguese, repeats times without account, after having created the expenditure, after having brought the country to bankruptcy, of having left the country in this state, that the effort to renegotiate debts and future charges of PPPs is little. If it's little, it was VV. Ex. those who created it and, therefore, if they created it should be very happy that the previous government saved it. But more than that, the former Government has left the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the extreme-left benches, a set of studies that allow us to move forward today with the process of reducing tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u196	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u197	I'll get you a copy, sir! You, who have created the expenditure, who take up the savings that was made by the previous government and who now come with 'pigs of wool' to propose a reduction of these tolls, should be ashamed not to acknowledge that they have left the country, the debt and charges for the Portuguese for future generations to pay. [[PSD applause.]] We, as always, propose the user-payer principle. We always said that. We repeatedly warned the governments of the Socialist Party, either in the time of Eng.o Guterres, or in the time of Eng.o Socrates, that what they were doing, the charges they were taking would have enormous weight for the country, for future generations, in public accounts and in its balance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u198	They had four years to do it! Four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u199	We therefore propose today, here, that the Government implement a system to reduce these tolls, which re-evaluates the ports still placed by the Government of Eng. Socrates. Contrary to what Mr Luís Ferreira says, it was the gentlemen who installed, who began to charge the tolls. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u200	They were, they were, yes sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u201	Mr. Luís Leite Ramos, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u202	If you'll let me talk, I'd like to finish, Mr. President! I remind the honourable Member that the toll system has been implemented... [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u203	... in 2013! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u204	Mr. President, I have no way of going on!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not mind creating conditions for the speaker to finish his speech? Please continue, Mr Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u206	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, the portico system was implemented by the Government of Eng.o Socrates. In fact, the connection to Viana do Castelo began to be charged during the Eng.o Socrates government. If you have no memory, if you don't remember, the porticos were installed in 2011... [[PS, BE and The Greens Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u207	They don't live there! You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u208	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. You want to finish, Mr. Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u209	To conclude, I must say that the port collection system in the former SCUT began to be implemented during the Eng.o Socrates government. The doors were installed on the other routes and were not activated because the government intended to leave this task to the next government, but the tolls began to be charged at that time. Therefore, we propose that this reduction system be implemented, that portico revaluation be done and that a reduction mechanism be created, temporary suspension of the collection of tolls in ways in which there were works on alternative ways, such as A22 in the Algarve. This is our proposal, and this is why we will always fight. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u210	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wanted to make some light about left-wing illusionism. Decree-Law No 67 -A / 2010 of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications states: « This Decree-Law identifies motorway tenders and sub-launchs subject to the collection of toll rates regime ». And it says what are « Silver Coast, Grande Porto and North Coast ». And, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, also sets the date from which to charge tolls. We're talking about a 2010 bill! Do you have any doubt that it is the party that you support today, the government of which you are part, that you have introduced tolls and that you are collecting tolls? Do you have any doubts, sir? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] I'm going to have this diploma distributed so that you can read it calmly. And I say more to you, Mr President, once and for all we shall vote in favour of the Socialist Party's initiative, but do not apologize for the A23 negotiations. You have done much better in Great Lisbon and North. But I hope that, once and for all, with respect to the populations of the interior and the Algarve, you will have the courage to negotiate with the Socialist Party the end of the tolls in the next State budget. If you do not, you are here to participate in political illusionism and political demagogy! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u212	Hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u213	Mr António Filipe has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There has been a lot of talk here about consistency and the CFP responds to yours. The PCP opposed the introduction of tolls in the time of the previous PS government, was against the introduction of new tolls and the maintenance of previous tolls with the PSD / CDS government and is here presenting its projects for the abolition of tolls in A23, A24, A4, A25 and Via do Infante. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u215	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u216	The CDS can't say the same thing. The CDS, which in the 2011 elections had five commitments for the Algarve, and one of them was the abolition of the tolls, which had been in the government for four years and did nothing for that, did not talk to me about consistency! [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u217	We're waiting for you to do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u218	You have to be lucky! It is that anyone who hears Mr. Luís Leite Ramos has to think why the PSD, who has been in the government for four years and has done nothing and who now criticizes the choice of the previous government, at the time, has not ended with the tolls. Why didn't they end it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u219	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u220	If they criticized the previous government, as we did, why, when they arrived at the government, they did not say: 'No, we are against these tolls, we will abolish them'. That would be the coherent position. The question is another. Is the PSD in favour of or against tolls inside and on the Child's Way? It's in favor, of course it's in favor! You introduced them, you defended them, you increased them, you wanted them to continue. So don't hide.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u221	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u222	Mr. President, if you are Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish by saying that it is with the people that we are, that we are thinking of them that we are presenting these initiatives. We are with the populations of the districts of Santarém, Castelo Branco and da Guarda, served by A23 ; of the districts of Vila Real and Bragança, served by A4 ; of Aveiro, Viseu and da Guarda, served by A25 ; of Viseu and Vila Real, served by A24 and the Algarve, served by the Via do Infante.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u223	They don't give us lessons of service to the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u224	It is thinking of these populations that we respond to our coherence and the initiatives we take here. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u225	We have thus reached the end of this point on our agenda today. We shall now enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members who have not been able to electronically sign up to the Bureau, so that it is considered to be present at the sitting. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 205 presences, to which the honourable Members add. Deputies André Pinotes Batista, Idália Salvador Serra and Ivan Gonçalves, of PS, and Amadeu Soares Alberaria, Carlos Costa Neves, Duarte Pacheco and Nuno Serra, of PSD, thus making a total of 212 presences, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting vote No 71 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Despite the death of the historian and writer Paulo Varela Gomes ( President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), who will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: “Paul Varela Gomes left us last April 30, at the age of 63. Born in Lisbon, in 1952, Paulo Varela Gomes was a graduate in History by the University of Lisbon, a master in Art History by the University of Lisbon, and a PhD in Architecture History by the University of Coimbra, who was Associate Professor in the Department of Architecture of the Faculty of Science and Technology. she fired in 2012, with a last lesson, the Sublime in Architecture. Provocative, but affectionate, acquiescent, but seductive, Paul Varela Gomes benefited from the respect and admiration that generations of students nurtured for him. Students who brilliantly captivated the architecture, either with the essays and criticisms he wrote, or with the documentaries he was author and present ( like the Cá World, about the civilizations that the Portuguese found when they arrived in India and the Céilão, and the Portuguese Malta, about the hidden relations between Portugal and Malta ). Varela Gomes was a militant of the Communist Party until the mid-1980s, a party which was disunified to establish the political movement XXI. Son of anti-fascist fighters, politically committed from youth, was, until the last of his days, a free spirit, a "patriot communist", as it was defined itself. Author of reference works in the field of art and architecture, Paulo Varela Gomes devoted himself, in recent years, exclusively to literature, publishing a book of chronics and four novels, all hailed by criticism: Gold and Cinza ( 2014 ), The Summer of 2012 ( 2014 ), Era Una Vez en Goa( 2015 ) and Passos Perdidos ( 2016 ), receiving, with Hotel, 2014, the PEN Club Award. Delegate of the Eastern Foundation in Goa, 1996 to 1998 and 2007 to 2009, was one of the largest and most respected voices on Indian culture and Portuguese presence in India and other countries in the East. In Morrer it is more difficult than it seems, Varela Gomes summarized life as «(...) a kind of peaceful tide, a large and wide river. in life is always morning and is a splendid time(...) ». And « Love, which is the other name of life, does not let me die at first: it obliges me to think about people, animals and plants of whom I like». It was one morning that Paulo Varela Gomes left, leaving a remarkable legacy to the Portuguese University and culture. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, marks its death, conveying to its family and friends the most significant grief. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u227	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 71 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Despite the death of the historian and writer Paulo Varela Gomes ( president of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), who has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Bureau was informed that the Government is associated with this vote of regret. Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 72 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of the plastic artist Kerubim Lapa ( President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u228	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Querubim Lapa de Almeida, one of the greatest names of the national artistic panorama of the 20th century, left us this Monday, at the age of 90. Born in Portimão in 1925, Querubim Lapa was a remarkable plastic artist, recognized for his polyvalence, having crossed, over more than 70 years, painting, drawing, engraving or tapestry, but highlighting himself, above all, as one of the most important Portuguese ceramicsists. Collaborator of Jaime Martins Barata, even before completing the course of the School of Decorative Arts António Arroio, in 1946, and of Martins Correia, he was a student of Leopoldo de Almeida at the School of Fine Arts in Lisbon, between 1947 and 1950, where he graduated in Sculpture. It is in the second half of the 40's that it binds to the neo-realist movement and the themes of its paintings and drawings pay special and melancholy attention to the precariousness of life forms. in a declared opposition to the dictatorship, he began to exhibit in 1948 in the General Exhibitions of Plastic Arts of the National Society of Fine Arts, integrating the third generation modernist. during the 1950s, his painting develops abstract forms and a lyrical slope that shares with a group of artists such as Jorge Vieira, Nikias Skapinakis, Sá Nogueira and João Abel Manta. following this route, it starts a practice of ceramic and tilery whose tradition will renew in a radical and deep way, the pair of teaching activities at the School of Decorative Arts António Arroio. At the same time, it begins a prolific collaboration with the Lamego Widow Ceramic Factory, where it develops panels such as those of the Restelo Commercial Center ( 1957 ) or of the Mininho Warehouses, in Moçamedes, in close collaboration with the developments of modern architecture. Following are some of its reference works: the ceramic decoration of the Hotel Ritz in Lisbon ( 1959 ), the revolutionary panel The Culture, at the Reitória da Universidade de Lisboa ( 1961 ), the under-relevue Sol Burning and Figured, in the Mexican Pastelaria, in Lisbon ( 1962 ), or the great relief of the Casino do Estoril ( 1967 ). Despite a recognised ceramic artist, he claimed that his «(...) passion was painting», claiming to be «(...) a painter hidden behind the ceramics ». It was in fact a « intervention painter », especially in the years 1974 to 1980, always attentive to the global conflict in the contemporary world. After participation in collective exhibitions—such as those in 1978 at the National Museum of Tile, or 1981 at the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation—and the recognition lived in 1986, with the City of Lisbon Tile Award ( with a panel at the seat of the Banco de Portugal ), it is organized its first major retrospective at the National Museum of Tile, in 1994, on the occasion of Lisbon, European Capital of Culture. Just thanks to the Grand Officer of the Military Order of Sant 'Iago da Espada, on June 10, 2015, Querubim Lapa, for his unique features, for the authenticity of his work, will be inscribed in the history of Portuguese art as a key figure in the tilery and national ceramics. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, signs its death, and transmits to its family and friends the most meaningful grief. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u229	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 72 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Bureau was informed that the Government is associated with this vote of regret. Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 73/ XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Despite the death of Sociologist Rui d’ Espiney (BE), who will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u230	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: “ Rui D’ Espiney was a prominent anti-fascist fighter. He was born in Mozambique and his political journey began as a militant of the Portuguese Communist Party until 1962. Two years later, he founded, with Francisco Martins Rodrigues and João Pulido Valente, the Marxist-Leninist Committee Portuguese / Popular Action Front ( CMLP / FAP ). The sociologist was exiled in France and Algeria and returned to Portugal in June 1965. Shortly after, he was arrested by the PIDE, who tortured him and beat him barbarously. As Rui D’ Espiney himself told, at some point in his captivity, they brought his wife in and she was unable to recognize, such were the black knots and the blood on her face. Her exclamation "They have deceived themselves in person, this is not my husband! It noted the brutality with which it was treated. The captive ended only with the Revolution of 25 April 1974. In 1974 / 75, Rui d' Espiney participated in the formation of the UDP and in that period was its leader. After 1974, Rui d’ Espiney lived in Setúbal, coordinated several projects for community development and education, founded and was director of the Institute of Educational Communities and ADELE ( Association for Local Educational Development in Europe ). The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over Rui D’ Espiney’s death and pays tribute to his family for his loss. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u231	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 73 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Bureau was informed that the Government is also associated with this regret vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, voting No 74 / XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Congratulations on the victory achieved by the dancer Antonio Casalinho ( PSD ), who will be read by Secretary Emília Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u232	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Portuguese dancer António Casalinho, the newest star of the Portuguese ballet, won last Friday the best prize of the Young America Grand Prix of New York, after having won this year in Paris, the semi-final european of the Youth American Grand Prix. This prestigious international dance prize, won by António Casalinho, young dancer, only 12 years old and a student of Annrella — Leiria's Ballet and Dance Academy, was the highest ever won by Portugal in this competition. He won in the Junior category (12 - 14 years old), repeating the prowess achieved one year ago on the step for children between 9 and 11 years old. António Casalinho, for whom the ballet began to be an extracurricular activity, dances since 8 and a half years old. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the victory achieved by Antonio Casalinho, recognizing and exalting the result obtained by this young dancer, the fruit of much effort and dedication, contributing with his example to motivate other young people to reconcile their studies with the practice of dance, demonstrating that they are activities perfectly, and hopefully compatible, enhancing the emergence of new values. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u233	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 74 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 75/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — I protest at the attitude of the European Central Bank to refuse access to fundamental information for the conduct of the parliamentary investigation to the resolution and sale of BANIF ( PCP ). Mrs Idália Serrão has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u234	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « in the exercise of its constitutional powers, the Assembly of the Republic created a Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Procedure leading to the Resolution and Sale of the International Funchal Bank ( BANIF ). As billions of euros of losses to be borne by the Portuguese people are concerned, the Assembly of the Republic called upon it to investigate the circumstances leading to the recapitalisation and subsequent sale of BANIF, to examine the difficulties taken by the various entities involved in this process and to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the banking supervision regime. in constitutional terms, the parliamentary committees of inquiry have the powers of investigation of the judicial authorities. However, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Banif has come to deal with the attitude of the European Central Bank to refuse access to elements on the Portuguese financial system, as well as on the role of supervisors, which are fundamental to the exercise of its mandate. It is known that the centralization of the supervisory and resolution mechanisms generated by the consolidation and advancement of the Bank's Union corresponds to a deviation from the decision-making capacity of the national authorities and their concentration in institutions immune to any scrutiny by citizens, but there is no justification for the fact that information on the processes involving extensive resources of the Portuguese State is denied to parliamentary committees of inquiry, depriving a sovereignty body of the Republic of the exercise of its constitutional powers. Moreover, questioned by Members of the European Parliament regarding decisions taken in the framework of the resolutions of BES and BANIF, the ECB also refused to provide the clarifications and to provide the information requested to it. in this regard, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary : 1 — Expresses its protest over the behaviour of the European Central Bank to refuse the information necessary to clarify the decisions taken in the framework of BES and BANIF and, in particular, to hide information essential to the Assembly of the Republic for the exercise of its sovereign powers regarding the evaluation of banking supervisory mechanisms; 2 — Expresses its concern about the potential conflict of interest between supervision and monetary policy and considers it necessary to ensure democratic control by States and their sovereign bodies of banking supervisory authorities. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u235	Mrs. Members, with regard to this vote No 75 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) ( PCP ), the PSD requested that points 1 and 2 be voted on separately. Let us then vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u236	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u237	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u238	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the vote on point 2 of vote No 75 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u239	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u240	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u241	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u242	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u243	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u244	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u245	Madam Member, I suppose it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u246	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, but on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Porfirio Silva and Mr Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u247	Be registered. Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 76 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Rejection of the so-called Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment ( TTIP ) ( PCP ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u248	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The European Union continues — under a cover of secrecy, not allowing democratic scrutiny of the process — negotiations with the United States of America on the Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment, commonly referred to as the Transatlantic Treaty or TTIP. These negotiations stem from other negotiating processes aimed at the conclusion of agreements with equal nature and objectives such as the Agreement on Trade in Services ( TiSA ) or the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between Canada and the European Union. These agreements, and in particular the TTIP, have the main objective of making further progress in the liberalisation of trade and services, trying to eliminate any barriers to the domain of the large multinationals over the economies of sovereign states. To be implemented, the TTIP would represent a step back to workers' rights and incomes, particularly by focusing on the legal framework of labour rights in the United States, a country which is not a signatory to various international labour conventions. The TTIP would be used to promote the liberalization and privatization of public services in areas such as education, water, energy, solid waste, as well as to deepen the commercialization of culture, putting into question hard social rights conquered by the peoples. The TTIP would further deepen the liberalisation of financial services, the movement of capital, with the consequent reduction of control, supervision and safeguard mechanisms. The TTIP would mean for a number of States, such as Portuguese, the imposition of significant reductions in standards of demand and control in the area of food safety and hygiene, as well as in the environmental field, by abolishing rules in areas such as mandatory environmental impact assessments or the precautionary principle. Overriding the profits and interests of multinationals to defend essential rights and legitimate democratic and sovereign decisions in defence of the public and national interest, the TTIP introduces mechanisms that empower multinationals to process States. thus, the TTIP is a project that, to be realized, would close serious threats to social and labour rights, to the various sectors of the national economy, to public health, environmental quality and natural conditions for democracy and national sovereignty. This agreement faces the growing opposition of large sectors of the population and of social and political organizations that in several countries raise their voice against the TTIP. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : 1 — Rejects, on behalf of the defence of the development of the country, the interests of Portuguese workers and people and national sovereignty and independence, the objectives and content of the TTIP and recommends to the Government an intervention with the European Union in order to abandon this negotiating process; 2 — It considers it essential to disseminate the content, nature and objectives of the TTIP and requires the Government to provide information on its position in the course of its negotiations. 3 — In any event, it considers that the TTIP — like other free trade and services agreements under negotiation by the European Union — must be subject to binding ratification by the Assembly of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u249	Mrs. Members, at the request of the PS, we shall first vote on points 1 and 3 and then on point 2. Let us then vote on points 1 and 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PS deputy Helena Roseta.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, the vote on draft resolution No 8 / XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Second amendment to Resolution No 1 - PL / 2016 of 19 January ( Composition of delegations to international parliamentary organizations ) ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates access to administrative information and reuse of administrative documents, including in environmental matters, transposing Directive 2003/4 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on public access to environmental information, and Directive 2003/98 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 as amended by Directive 2013 / 37 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the reuse of public sector information. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 25 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A23 ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Deputies of PS Eurico Brilliant Dias, Hortense Martins, Joaquim Raposo, Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and Santinho Pacheco.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 33 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A24 ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Member of PS Hortense Martins and the abstention of PS Member Eurico Brillante Dias.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of existing tolls and non-introduction of new ports into the ex-SCUT of the transmountain motorway ( A4 ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u250	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u251	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u252	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the diplomas we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u253	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by abolishing the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Deputies of PS António Eusébio, Fernando Anastácio and Luís Graça.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 43/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A25 ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and PS Hortense Martins, Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and Santinho Pachecoe, with the abstention of PS MP Eurico Brillante Dias.]] Then we will generally vote on Bill No. 73 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption of tolls on A22 ( Via do Infante ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Deputies of PS António Eusébio, Fernando Anastácio and Luís Graça.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 224 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reduce by at least 50 % the cost of tolls in A22 until the works of EN125 are completed ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 46 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A23 ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Deputies of PS Eurico Brilliant Dias, Hortense Martins, Joaquim Raposo, Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and Santinho Pacheco.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 272 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A4 ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u254	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u255	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u256	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I shall make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u257	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u258	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u259	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u260	Mr President, it is to announce to the Bureau that I shall present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u261	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 273 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A24 ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Member of PS Hortense Martins and the abstention of PS Member Eurico Brillante Dias.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 274 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A25 ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Deputies of PS Hortense Martins, Maria Antonio Almeida Santo, and Santinho Pacheco, and the abstention of PS MP Eurico Brillante Dias.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 283 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the reduction of the value of tolls on inland and road roads without adequate alternatives to mobility and safety ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] We now have the vote on draft resolution No 284 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by abolishing toll rates on the transmountain highway A4 ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u262	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u263	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u264	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u265	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 285 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the port collection system in the former SCUT ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u266	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u267	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u268	Mr President, it is to inform that Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and I will present a statement of vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u269	Stay, Mr. Deputy. Mr António Eusebius asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u270	Mr President, it is only to inform that the Members elected by the Algarve will present a statement of vote on draft resolutions 35, 224 and 285 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and on Bill No 73 / XIII ( 1. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u271	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Does Mrs Hortense Martins ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u272	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the drafts we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u273	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u274	Mr President, it is to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on the whole set of draft resolutions submitted with regard to the tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Be registered. Mr Hugo Costa is calling for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u276	Mr President, it is to announce that the members of the Socialist Party elected by the Santarém district will present a declaration of vote on draft resolutions on A23.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u278	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote by all draft resolutions and bills on tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Mr. João Paulo Correia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u280	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on all the votes relating to the tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. All these intentions are recorded. We shall move on to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed on 8 April 2015. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall move on to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Sultanate of Oman to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 28 April 2015. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u282	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u283	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u284	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that we are going to make a written statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u285	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 172 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend Ordinance No 25 / 2015 of 9 February so that the amounts of support for areas of production grown with genetically modified organisms are of zero value ( NAP) ( text replaced by the author of the initiative ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 152 / 2014 of 15 October 2014 on Casa do Douro ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the drafts of lein. 110 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotes the establishment of an administrative committee to regulate the debts of the extinct House of Douro and the situation of its employees ( PS ) and 121 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates the heritage of Casa do Douro ( BE ) ( the authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote in the general and final specialty of this same replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u286	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u287	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u288	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on draft law No 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and the replacement text for the projects of lein. 110 and 121 / XIII ( 1. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u289	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We passed the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on Bill No 143 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 28 / 2000 of 29 November defining and regulating the honours of the National Pantheon ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u290	Mr President, I call on you to announce that, on the vote on the diploma we have just voted on, the PSD will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u291	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco will read an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Comarca de Braga, DIAP, 3. the Section, Case No. 465 / 16.9T9BRG, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Joaquim Barreto ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u293	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will continue our work by entering item 4 of the agenda, with the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 98 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extends the supply of programme services in TDT, ensuring adequate technical conditions and price control ( BE ) and 185 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure universal access and broadcast of all public television service channels via Digital Terrestrial Television ( TDT ) ( PCP ), in conjunction with draft resolutions 282 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — improving the coverage and extension of the supply of programme services on Digital Terrestrial Television ( TDT ) ( Os Verdes ) and 298 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare for the extension of the supply of programme services on Digital Terrestrial Television ( PS ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The offer of Digital Terrestrial Television in Portugal, when compared to what happens in most European countries, is simply disappointing. We're at the last place on the table. We have only four open-label programme services, when Greece, for example, has 28, Spain 35 and Italy 118. To these four programme services joins the Canal Parliament. This picture, by the way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it couldn't be clearer... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u295	Mr Jorge Campos, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I would like to ask Mr. Members who created conditions for the speaker to continue his speech. There's too many of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask that they sit or leave the plenary. I would like to continue to use the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u296	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was saying, Mrs. Members, that this picture that I show you could not be more revealing: Portugal is at the last place of the entire digital terrestrial television distribution table in Europe. As everyone will know, the transition from analog to digital allowed the radio space to emit at the same frequency a much higher number of channels. Where only one could coexist several channels. There are multiple consequences resulting there and several times and in different forms European bodies have taken a position on this matter, in particular in encouraging public broadcasting services to explore digital platforms in order to better carry out their mission. In fact, free TDT, therefore in open signal, is seen as a democratization factor in access to content, a civic participation stage, a place of confrontation of ideas and a window of cultural disclosure. More: TDT has an important role in stimulating the production of the audiovisual industry. In Portugal, the beginning of the debate on the migration of the analogue platform to the digital platform dates back to the beginning of the century, so it was a long time ago, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. In 2008 a model was defined: it went wrong; misconceptions happened; interests multiplied! The legitimate expectation of a substantial improvement in the services provided, as well as the extension of the number of free channels was based on a gender option: either paying the packages of private operators or being without television in good image and sound conditions. There have been, and there are still, of course, many complaints. In the last few years, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that subscription television numbers have increased significantly. Still, there will be about a million homes excluded from this modality, among other reasons, due to its high cost. Everyone pays, however, a contribution to the audiovisual. As such, they should be able to access free public service channels, as, moreover, it is constitutionally acquired. The Left Block, as you will know, has taken this issue several times, but in practice the fact is that little has been done to extend the provision of program services in TDT, ensuring adequate technical conditions and price control. Our bill goes that way. In fact, the Government Programme also gives clear indications of the need to print a fresh impetus in this area. The Left Block believes that the use of public service programmes to improve free television supply must be the logical and immediate starting point for the relaunch of TDT in Portugal. The Left Block has a perfect understanding of the complexity of the problem, so it is also important to reiterate that the immediate occupation of the radio space available in the so-called "MUX A" does not call into question the access of new private program services. The Left Block is prepared to discuss everything with everyone, especially with operators and regulators, as, in fact, it could not fail to be, in the belief that it is possible to get an ambiguous situation and that it is more than time to find a solution. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u297	To present the PCP bill, you have the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2012, when the analogue television broadcast network was shut down, in the process of switching to digital signal, the PCP alerted to the problems and consequences of the bad conduct of this process, which caused damage to the public interest and the concrete life of the populations. at the time, we warned that thousands of people with analog coverage television were without access to television when the broadcasters and broadcasters in their regions were turned off. And when we expressed these concerns, we also presented a legislative initiative to postpone the shutdown of analogue emissions in order to ensure the necessary safeguard of the population's access to television broadcasts. It was an initiative rejected by PSD and CDS-PP, although on the same day it was decided by the Government of these same parties to postpone the shutdown of analogue emissions, thus giving the CFP a reason. This measure, as we stated at the time, was not sufficient, since it did not safeguard universality in access to land emissions, as the reality still proves today. From north to south of the country, especially in the interior, people's living conditions were sacrificed, particularly the most disadvantaged layers and the most isolated populations. There were many difficulties experienced by families, which, for example, were forced to buy the devices to capture the TDT and they did not work. There were many problems found in many supposedly covered areas in which it was not possible to capture TDT, or where, under adverse weather conditions, the signal fell completely, thus confirming the problems existing in the reception of the signal, for which the PCP was alerting. These are problems that remain today, as a significant part of the homes with TDT continues to have failures in the sound or image and prolonged interruptions of the emission. Moreover, in addition to the many problems felt by the populations in receiving the signal, the change to the TDT brought an increase of costs for families, both in the adaptations that needed to be made to access the TDT emission, either when, due to the lack of resolution of the problems, the families were pushed into private communication operators. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the scope of territorial coverage of TDT by land issue cannot be less than best achieved in the analogue network. It cannot mean a backwardness, but must represent an advance and must therefore be at least equivalent to the territorial coverage of the most comprehensive analog channels of RTP, as previously observed. TDT cannot be a missed opportunity, nor can it contribute to the possibility of degradation in access to public television service. What could be an important opportunity to improve not only the quality of the service provided, but also the extension of the supply of the number of channels made available free of charge to the Portuguese population, has been transformed in practice into a barbarous operation for the imposition of paid television access, thus benefiting the profits of the operators who provide this service and conditioning, in the present and in the future, the role of the public television service. We believe that it is essential to reverse this reality and to defend the interests of the people in this process. It is therefore necessary to create the necessary and effective legal mechanisms to safeguard the universality of access to TDT emissions, as well as to extend the supply of transmitted channels, taking advantage of installed capacity. With TDT, the country may have more public service in open signal and not less. TDT can and should be the opportunity for a television offer to all, instead of being the real nightmare that is for a part of the Portuguese population and an exceptional business for a part of the economic interests involved in this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u299	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has been accompanying and intervening several times on this matter in recent years. Knowing the problems with which populations have faced themselves, the CFP, as in the past, presents a legislative initiative that aims to ensure universal access to digital terrestrial television and the extension of television supply to all channels of public service, because the commitment we have made is that of defending the rights of these peoples and the public television service. [[Applause from the PCP and from the PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u301	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is public, the implementation process in Portugal of Digital Terrestrial Television began very late in relation to other countries of the European Union. However, this analog-digital migration did not take into account the experience of countries where migration began before, which is at least regrettable because it did not allow us to learn from the mistakes of others. Moreover, the process has been filled with singularities and examples of what should not be done, when it is in fact intended to safeguard the public interest, and the result is there. Populations have not seen this migration to TDT nor the strengthening of the provision of public service, nor a surplus, such as improving the quality and increased channels made available, although it has represented an increase in costs for a significant part of the population, leading thousands of Portuguese people to be without access to terrestrial television channels, in particular to RTP1. It is recalled that in 2012 when the analog signal was turned off, 98 % of the Portuguese population had access to the public television channel and, although ANACOM claims that 100 % of the Portuguese population had access to digital television, the truth is that 7, 5 % only have access to it via satellite reception. Now, the costs of turning the analog signal off, on the one hand, and the difficulties of access to Digital Terrestrial Television, on the other, ended up pushing people to subscribe to television channels made available by operators. Portugal was one of the countries where migration was faster, but it was also very little ambitious in terms of channel supply. Unfortunately, the introduction of Digital Terrestrial Television did not represent a balance in terms of television supply, contrary to what happened throughout Europe, which is strange, because, in fact, the change to TDT had as a great purpose, as a great objective the strengthening of the supply of channels, but this ended up not to occur. In fact, one of the few advantages that has so far been the incorporation of the television service of the Channel Parliament into the TDT, allowing, contrary to what happened before, the universality of parliamentary emissions which were limited only to the television service by subscription. This added value has in fact allowed the transparency of political activity and also, in some ways, to bring the electors closer together, allowing the Portuguese to follow up on the work of the Assembly of the Republic. But in addition to this, few are the advantages. What we believe is that the introduction of TDT must be, necessarily, associated with more public service, the most variety, the most offer and the most quality in the television service provided to the citizens, because this will only defend itself and affirm the presence of the public interest in this process. in this sense, it is essential that the various channels of regional, national or international RTP are integrated into the TDT platform in order to be available to all Portuguese on an open signal and without any limitations or constraints. But it is also necessary to ensure that the territorial coverage of TDT by land issue is at least equal to the coverage that was made by the analogic emission of RTP1 at the beginning of the process, because it is necessary to ensure the public interest and why it is necessary to guarantee the access of all Portuguese to television. This is the purpose of the project that The Greens present today for discussion, recommending not only to the Government the improvement of the coverage of Digital Terrestrial Television in order to reach at least 98 % of the population, thus ensuring the universality of their access, but also the extension to TDT of all television channels that integrate the public television service, whether regionally, nationally or internationally. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u303	To present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the political decision and the first administrative procedures for the launch of TDT in Portugal were taken in the 2001 years passed. Here they arrived, and although six multiplexers have been placed in competition—this is what they call frequency-use supports—we currently have only one MUX, with only half of their potential in use. Fifteen years later, therefore, the supply of digital television programs on the terrestrial platform is virtually identical to that of the analogue platform, which is absolutely unacceptable under social development criteria and in the potentially available technological development process. TDT, as a free access platform, is essential for fulfilling the commitment made by the countries of the European Union to promote the public broadcasting service. Since the Protocol annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1999 which places the public service on television an undeniable importance for the guarantee of democracy and the safeguarding of pluralism, there have been numerous recommendations and resolutions of the various European bodies, in particular the European Commission, of the Council of Europe, in order to highlight the importance of this platform in the various levels of citizenship and common development. Aware of the importance of extending the supply of content from the digital platform and aware that the public service observes the principles of universality and national cohesion, as envisaged in the television law, the Socialist Party recognizes as a priority of the Government the strengthening of the TDT's open signal channel supply. Moreover, this recognition is based on the development model of the Socialist Party, which is the bet on the qualification of Portuguese and knowledge. The Socialist Government programme is, in fact, very clear in this regard. It assumes the commitment to allow open signal access to all public service channels and to extend the scope of the provision of programme services through TDT. The available radio spectrum is a public good. It must therefore be managed as such, considering the best public interest in its use, as well as the social, cultural and economic values involved. in this sense, it is important to act in an informed and substantiated manner, although fast, pursuing a strategy that reverses the position, I would say, anachronic in which Portugal, unfortunately is in this domain. We are convinced that the expansion of free audiovisual supply clearly has conditions to be achieved, beyond the two public channels we propose here, in the medium term, but until the short term, provided that the financial balance of the market has been safeguarded. The balance between the highest public interest, which is also met, attention, through the good quality of the service provided by private operators, and the fair functioning of the market should be taken into account, since all players in this activity are indispensable for the satisfaction of the citizens. Consequently, we are faced with the appropriate time to start the necessary steps for the two objectives. The process must therefore be initiated with a view to the inclusion of more services in TDT's public operator programs. It is necessary to promote the development of necessary financial, technical and legal studies to enable further expansion of the provision of TDT programme services ( terrestrial digital television ). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to boost the full use of the various multiplexes and to decide on the option of high-definition transmission, to better study the licensing arrangements and procedures. thus, in addition to the addition of the two TDT channels, it is necessary not to exhaust in any way the much that should be done in this domain. on the next 24 May there is a conference in this Parliament, promoted by 12. the Commission, in which it will be possible for all Members to benefit...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u305	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u306	... of the knowledge that may be provided by more specialists who can really give additional knowledge to this whole Parliament in order to be better able to decide on this matter. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u307	For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a series of initiatives on digital terrestrial television, some of which have already been appreciated in the previous Parliament. The initiative presented by the Left Block aims to see the provision of programme services in the TDT extended, ensuring adequate technical conditions and price control. For the CFP it is also important to ensure universal access and the issuance of all public television service channels via terrestrial digital television ( TDT ). The Green Party recommends that the Government improve the coverage and extension of the provision of programme services on terrestrial digital television. And the Socialist Party, now in the Government, recommends the preparation of the extension of the provision of programme services on terrestrial digital television, a more prudent attitude, we agree with the Socialist Party. Yes, sir. Members, a much more prudent attitude, because in the previous legislation, the Socialist Party, as opposition, recommended to the PSD/CDS Government « The inclusion on terrestrial digital television of all public radio and national television channels provided for in the law and in concession contracts (...) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u309	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u310	Today, VV. They recommend that the Government support the following: « Promotes the preparation of the necessary financial, technical and legal studies to allow a comprehensive analysis of the different possibilities for further extension of the supply of programme services (... ). A much different and much more cautious speech. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: TDT provides a number of advantages in relation to analogue emissions. It is a privileged vehicle for the promotion of equality in access to information, contributing to the promotion of public service. But what should have been a successful process has become a confused process, marked by a history of failures: successive delays, delays, non-compliance of the operator, lack of regulation, negligence and passivity of the socialist government. Portugal was one of the last countries in Europe to move forward with TDT, in April 2009, surrounded by complaints and controversy, but what starts wrong, contrary to what the popular saying says, can and should be addressed. The PSD is aware that Portugal has a low number of free channels and recognizes the great technical and legal complexity inherent to the increase of open signal channels. We are available and committed to seeking solutions and to participating in a process that allows the existence of a TDT model with full coverage of the territory, in order to ensure a public television service for all, which reaches the coast and the interior as deep as is desirable. The parliamentary conference on TDT, to be held on the next 24th of May, will certainly bring us valid contributions to the future of TDT. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is important to listen to all the entities involved in this process, experts and researchers; to evaluate and make a serious and deep analysis that enables you to move forward in a process of renewal of the existing model. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u311	For the last speech on this item on the agenda, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that, as in other areas, digital terrestrial television or, better, the political issue around TDT is consensual in this House. It is a national shame that urgently needs to be collected. And, contrary to what was still yesterday, without smelling, the parties that support the government showed us—... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I repeat, without smelling, [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ...and, for my honour, I will not develop here any more, Mrs. Member, but I could say more —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u313	All right! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u314	... the CDS is available to discuss the problem and do everything you can to solve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u315	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u316	But this does not mean we get rid of technical discussions and technical and legal discussions, which have only served to drag the problem away and not to solve it, much less we take a position in absolutely incomprehensible discussions between operators or regulators and that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese does not understand and even less to discuss which technology is more appropriate, whether the current one is overcome or not and whether it should or should not be advanced by another model. That's not for us to discuss here. What matters to us (this is what our fundamental mission is) is to ascertain facts and to have the tools we have within our reach to find the viable alternatives at this very moment. So let's go to the facts that matter. The TDT was born full of difficulties and then, much later, the other countries in Europe had adopted it. At present, the TDT only—and I stress the 'only' because this is really serious and it is the central part that occupies us—is available only, I said, five channels, which means that the Portuguese, unlike the other citizens of the European countries, only have access to five open-channel channels. For this reason, we realize that Portugal is on the tail of Europe, as Mr Jorge Campos has shown us recently, which is unacceptable and is an unforgettable and insufficient truth, but it is also necessary to remember that Portuguese contribute, actively and directly, to the essential maintenance of a public television service, without which, moreover, the CDS believes that there is not even democracy or that democracy, the diaspora or the Portuguese language, is badly damaged only to cite some sufficiently enlightening examples and not to go further. In addition, it is not acceptable for Portuguese to bear more costs to have access to more television channels. There is certainly room for more than two or three channels, at least in the exact current conditions in which the existing ones operate. Where, the question is, the CDS remains no doubt, the TDT can and should be extended immediately,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u317	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u318	... making available to the Portuguese more than two or three channels in the same conditions under which the five existing channels are operating, where it includes, safely and undoubtedly, at least, the public television service. It is then up to the government to create the conditions for this to happen now, something that the CDS will not stop monitoring and claiming. in addition, technical, legal, technological and related discussions, which have been, moreover, an obstacle to the development of TDT and that is why we are stopped, must be continued to be studied and discussed, obviously, there is no doubt, but they cannot continue to serve as an excuse to justify the unjustifiable, with injury and sacrifice for all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u319	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u320	Mr. President, I'll be done in 2 seconds. Let us deal with what we already have in hand, because it is the public interest that is at stake here and it is reasonably proportionate not to punish the Portuguese no longer with the indefinations of a process for various reasons and none of them is easy, we also admit, and it does not seem to have a quick end in sight. Mr President, in conclusion, what the CDS expects is that the popular adage is not met: "what is born wrong, late or never goes right! » and, therefore, we are available here to help. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u321	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point five of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Scheme of the State's financial responsibility in providing health care to users of the regional health service of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, by the National Health Service and the principle of reciprocity ( ALRAA ). For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which raises the question of the regime of the financial responsibility of the State in the provision of health care to the users of the regional health service in the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the recognition of the principle of reciprocity. basically, what is intended with this proposal is that, whenever an Azorian receives health care on the continent, these costs are charged and borne by the National Health Service and that, when a citizen of the continent receives health care in the Azores, these costs are borne by the regional health service. The following question is raised from the outset: if this regime of State financial responsibility is applied to the Azores, why should it not also be applied to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, as it states, in fact, to the opinion that it has been sent about this discussion? The recognition of the principle of equality in access to health care in the SNS (National Health Service ) by the users of the autonomous regions is already, well, a reality, nor otherwise can we conceive that it is not. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its Article 64. the, determines the right of all citizens to health protection, through a universal, general and tendentially free SNS, and both Azorians and Maderians are Portuguese, therefore, have to have the right of access to the National Health Service of the continent, in the same way as citizens who reside on the continent, and, like these, have access to health care when they are in autonomous regions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we know, and it is natural that in this way on the continent there are more differentiated health care, both in number and in the various specialities they present. Therefore, it is normal that there is health care that users of the Azores can only have on the continent. It is crucial that the principle of equal access to health care in the SNS, by the users of the autonomous regions, be assured that, I repeat, it is already, and yet it is. There is therefore no user in the autonomous regions who needs health care on the continent and who does not receive them with all the quality and excellence that our SNS presents. what is here is a question of charging the costs to the services of the region or the National Health Service. Therefore, for the CDS, it will never be, nor can it ever be, in question, the access of all Portuguese citizens to the health care they need and believes that the financial responsibility of these care lies with the region where they are provided, whether in the Azores, Madeira or the continent. We will therefore be able to follow this initiative and approve it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u323	For an intervention representing the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They have already said here, and it is true, that we are in a discussion of a legislative initiative presented by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which aims to enshrine the principle of reciprocity as regards the free provision of health care. In other words, with this initiative it is intended not to be charged to the users or regional health service the health care provided to the users of the regional health service here, on the continent, by the National Health Service. With this initiative, it is intended to place the users of both services on equal terms. We have now heard the CDS-PP very concerned about the implementation of this initiative also in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Mrs Teresa Caeiro has forgotten that the law of the Budget, which is currently in force, has been added a proposal for an amendment which enshrines precisely this principle of reciprocity to both archipelagos. In fact, the proposal for an amendment which the CDS-PP voted against and we now note that it will vote in favour of this initiative. Well, here's a beautiful contradiction of the CDS-PP. [[PCP and PS Deputies Carlos Pereira and Marisabel Moutela applauded.]] But it is also important to say that, with regard to this proposal which was put forward in the discussion of the State budget, the PSD, which had put forward proposals in this respect, abstained from the vote on this amendment. There is also the concern of the PSD, regarding the establishment of the principle of reciprocity for the archipelagos of Madeira and the Azores. I said that this proposed amendment, introduced in the State Budget for 2016, is correcting those that were the amendments introduced by PSD and CDS-PP in the State Budgets for 2013, 2014 and 2015, all of the PSD and CDS-PP. And so he said in the State budgets that I just mentioned: « The payment of services rendered by SNS entities to natural persons taxing in autonomous regions is the responsibility of the respective regional health service ». This is what PSD and CDS did: it was to change what was already in force, which was the principle of reciprocity. Because the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic determines, I quote, Article 6. the, which « The State is unitary and respects in its organisation and functioning the autonomous insular regime and the principles of subsidiarity (... ), in Article 9 ( g ). the, the fundamental tasks of the State, where it states « Promote the harmonious development of the entire national territory, taking into account, inter alia, the outermost nature of the Azores and Madeira archipelagos ; » and, above all, because this bill corrects what we have said, an unfair and discriminatory measure introduced by the PSD and CDS in the 2013, 2014 and 2015 State Budgets, we will vote in favour of this initiative. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u325	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today discussing a proposal for a law of the Autonomous Region of the Azores which will allow the right of Azori to medical care to be enshrined in the law. This is a fundamental theme for the Azores, this is a fundamental theme for all the Azores. Access to health is a right that could not continue to be denied to the Azorians, nor could they be discriminated against because of their insularity. Despite the universality, equality and free access to health care are constitutional principles, the reality is that these principles were violated in the 2013 State Budgets, 2014 and 2015, when they were included standards that discriminated against the Azorians in access to medical care provided on the continent, requiring the payment of these care by the regional health service. And throughout all these years, it is recalled that the Autonomous Region of the Azores has never paid the National Health Service the health care provided to citizens living on the continent who went to hospitals or other Azorian health units. There was therefore a manifest lack of the principle of reciprocity. For this reason, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presented proposal 123 - C, amending the State Budget for 2016, which allowed this year to guarantee the principle of reciprocity and users of autonomous regions the right to health care provided on the continent as well as to the users of the National Health Service access to health care in the Azores. Despite the State Budget for 2016, the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores intended to present this bill for the approval of this Assembly of the Republic, and, in our view, did very well. The Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores is a constitutionally legitimized body and has the duty to defend that the rights of the Azores are protected by the principle of regularity and public stability. It is essential that this right become law. The free access of the Azorians to health cannot be at the mercy of the political wills of occasion, embodied in any rules of philanthropy or charity, nor by unstable political readings and budgetary uncertainties. By these principles, the PS Parliamentary Group defends this bill, which enshrines the regime of the State's financial responsibility in the provision of health care to the users of the regional health service. We cannot therefore ignore the fact that there is a change in the relationship with autonomy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u327	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a fact that the Azorians have to use the National Health Service, as well as the Madeirans, to carry out certain treatments. It has always been this way and not just in the last four years, as the PS tries to get the idea over. It is also a fact that this issue has always been at the level of a correct account between the Governments of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira and the Central Government. It has always been this way and it's not worth saying that this is the fault of the last four years, as the PS tries to pass the idea. But it is also a fact that the previous government, the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS, initiated procedures in this regard to resolve this issue, and for that, it created a working group where the Autonomous Regions were. Moreover, the Autonomous Region of the Azores has been missing and not responding to this issue until the date on which the governance of the former Government has been interrupted. Truth be told, this issue has gone through 10 years of the governments of Socrates and other governments, even the responsibility of the PSD and PSD / CDS, and only now with the previous government have the procedures started to resolve this issue. [[Protests by PS Deputies Filipe Neto Brandão and Gabriela Canavilhas.]] However, if this issue is important, more important, and what the Azores want, is that in their territory, on their land, there are quality services and, in relation to the health service provided in the Autonomous Region of the Azores — and I speak of the Autonomous Region of the Azores because it is here one of its leaders, who has been President of the Regional Government for many years, and, as they say, it is those who are still in charge of the policy of the Azores — I quote a statement from the Order of Physicians 15 days ago, which says: 'This autistic and self-destructive policy is not acceptable to be assisted in the regional health service'. Even according to this statement, immediate and unconscious measures are being implemented in the health sector in the region. See, these measures have led to a ‘(...) deterioration of the quality of care provided to populations, increased costs and increased inequalities in access to health care’. [[PS Members' laughs.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, listen, listen because what I'm going to say right now is very similar to what's happening out here, it's very identical: « the institution of persecution and blackmail measures». This is said by the Order of Physicians and is very similar to what happens out here in other sectors, where no one can tell the truth, which is soon attacked. This is indeed what is happening in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It is important to solve the problems out here, but it is more important, and the Azorians like and want, that the regional health service is a quality service and that it has access to it. Twenty years of socialism in the Azores led to this deterioration and those who say it are the health professionals themselves; it is not the PSD, they are the health professionals themselves, it is the Order of the Doctors that says it. The evaluation is done. [[PSD applause.]] [[Deputies from PS deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u329	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The consecration of this principle of reciprocity in the provision of health care by the National Health Service to the users of the Autonomous Regions and by regional services to the users of the continent is something very positive and I am pleased to note that the conditions have been met to enshrine this principle in law in the current legislature and with the left-wing majority that supports the current government. Regional health services cannot offer the population all valences. Given the small size of this population, it is not justified and therefore residents have to move on time to the continent in order to have access to certain health care. However, various circumstances also determine that the users of the National Health Service use health units in the Autonomous Regions and, in the name of solidarity, territorial continuity, universality of health care and because we are all Portuguese, that the costs must be borne by the service that provides them and not owed to the service of origin of the users. I should like to make a note here of the situation in which the regional health service, which is harmful, is a major degradation of facilities and equipment and where there is a lack of everything. Doctors, nurses, medicines, there are equipment without maintenance, stopped for more than a year, as is the case with a magnetic resonance imaging equipment, and where patients' relatives are invited to take things from home as simple as the toilet role for those who are hospitalized. This situation results from a strategy of destruction of public health service to favor private businesses, transforming the health of people in business, obeying the logic that those who can pay, pay, who cannot pay, die at the hospital door. This situation is paradoxical, in a region that is apparently rich, which shows a per capita GDP above the national average and whose regional budget finances three teams in the first national football league. But these are the options of a regional power that has been ruling for the benefit of a group of privileged families that dominate business and politics in the region and that disqualify the people who have chosen that same power. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u331	For a second speech, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to Mr António Ventura's intervention, the only relevant aspect that is important to mention is that you have aggravated the problem in recent years. We're solving the problem. And from now on, any Azorian will be able to have access to health services and care on the continent in the same way as any other Portuguese, without being charged these costs to the regional health service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u333	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u334	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u335	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u336	About?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u337	Mr President, it is to question a statement made by Mr Paulino Ascension Left Block Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u338	Mrs Deputy, the requests to the Bureau are about the conduct of the work. I cannot give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u339	But if it's about the conduct of the work, I can set up my inquiry in this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u340	So, what's the problem with the conduct of the work, Your Honor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u341	Mr President, it is only to ask Mr Paulino Ascension to clarify the House...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u342	I cannot give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u343	So, it's okay. My intention to appeal to the Bureau is recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u344	What's the point? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u345	With no further requests for registration to intervene on point five of our agenda, we move on to point six, which is from the assessment of petition No 24/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by José Duarte de Almeida Ribeiro and Castro and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to simplify the legal requirements for the presentation of legislative initiatives of citizens and popular referendum initiatives, as well as the consecration of deadlines for their assessment, together with the projects of lein.o 136 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Legislative Initiative of Citizens ) ( PCP ), 167 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June regulating the Citizens'Legislative Initiative ( second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ) ( BE ), 188 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative ), simplifying the procedures and requirements laid down therein ( CDS-PP ), 208 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June to make the Legislative Initiative of Citizens ( The Greens ) accessible, 210 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June by reviewing the requirements and procedures for the delivery of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PS ), 212 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June, reducing by 20 % the number of signatures necessary for the submission of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PSD ) and 213 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April approving the Organic Law of the Referendum Regime, reducing by 20 % the number of signatures necessary for the presentation of popular referendum initiatives ( PSD ), in general, and with draft deliberation No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the establishment of a working group for the study and implementation of an electronic delivery mechanism for citizens'legislative initiatives ( CDS-PP ). First of all, Mr Antonio Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course, we want to congratulate the petitioners and say that the CFP has always been in favour of the consecration, first in the Constitution and then in the law, of the popular legislative initiative — indeed, it was by proposal of the CFP that this possibility was constitutionally enshrined — and it has always also considered that the solution adopted in the law, as regards the number of signatures, was manifestly excessive and disproportionate. from then on we have come to propose that the number of 5000 signatures be sufficient for a legislative initiative of citizens to be admitted to the Assembly of the Republic. at that time we compared the number of signatures necessary for the establishment of a political party or even the number of signatures necessary for the submission of a candidature to the Presidency of the Republic. We're not comparing situations. The situations are different. We have been repeatedly criticized for comparing situations that are not comparable. In fact, it is not to compare, it is to have as reference the number of signatures needed to trigger an institutionally relevant mechanism, and it seems to us that the presentation of a presidential candidature or the constitution of a political party is more relevant than, except due respect, the presentation of an initiative. Therefore, from our point of view, it does not make sense that in order to present a legislative initiative to the Assembly of the Republic, the number of 35 000 signatures is required. That is why we always argue that, not having the citizens a decisive power — the only power that citizens have is to present an initiative, because it is the Assembly of the Republic that will debate it, which will approve it or reject it, whether to understand or accept amendments, introducing those which they understand — does not make sense that there is such a demanding number of signatures. Moreover, the presentation of a legislative initiative is responsible for the citizens, i.e. if with 4000 signatures a petition is made to the Assembly of the Republic, but then 35 000 are needed to present a legislative initiative, this is discouraging the presentation of the legislative initiative. Then, it is better for citizens to say, ‘The Assembly of the Republic to do’ and to make a petition in this regard. There is therefore a disproportion between the exercise of the right to petition, which is very well at this point, and the presentation of the citizens' legislative initiative, which is clearly a deterrent to this possibility. Therefore, we always argue that the number should be reduced and that we keep this proposal. But we also believe that there are other proposals put forward here, in order to amend the subscription reception scheme, which they deserve to be considered. So we think that it is worth reviewing this matter. We will continue to defend a very substantial reduction in the number of subscriptions required and it seems to us that the proposal put forward by the PSD in this respect is reducing. But, of course, we believe that initiatives should be brought down to the committee and an open discussion should be held on the subject in order to change what needs to be changed. And here the contribution made by the petitioners is obviously relevant and should be taken into account. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u347	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u348	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners, who remind this House of the need to expedite and introduce improvements in the instruments of citizen participation in political life. Consecrated constitutionally, the right of active participation in the public affairs of the country was deepened by the creation of several instruments, of which are examples the popular petition or the right of legislative or referendum initiative. In fact, they are mechanisms that, by removing the monopoly from political initiative to political parties, bring citizens and citizens closer to Parliament, increase transparency, deepen citizenship, and thus democracy only has to win. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u349	On 4 June 2003, the approval of Law No 17 / 2003 made it possible to comply with Article 167. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the exercise of the right of legislative initiative of citizens, thus allowing them to propose changes in the legislative framework according to their concerns, their desires and their needs. at a time when we are discussing the progressive departure of citizens and citizens from political life, when election after election we face levels of abstention that do not co-operate with active citizenship and with sound democracy, it is important to make a balance on the efficiency of these instruments and seek to improve the mechanisms of this participation. In 13 years of application of this Law, only five legislative initiatives of citizens have entered. We believe that the consolidation of participatory democracy is not guaranteed with the mere existence of these instruments, but it is also important to ensure effective access to these mechanisms. The use of the citizens' legislative initiative has been greatly hampered by the demanding legal requirements which are an effort which is hardly beyond the reach of citizens who do not have a structure and support organisation. Firstly — and the Left Block has already presented a number of initiatives in this regard over the years — it is important to reduce the number of signatures needed for this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u350	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u351	It does not make sense that a presidential candidacy with 7500 signatures can be submitted but that 35 000 are required for this type of initiative. We propose that the number of signatures needed for the ILCs ( citizen legislative initiatives) be substantially reduced to 4000. We also believe that it is important to review the form of submission of such initiatives. Petitions are capable of being delivered electronically, by e-mail and by platforms appropriate to the effect, and these initiatives must also function in the same way and be delivered in the same way, in paper support or in electronic support. The requirement for the identity of subscribers should also be reviewed and simplified. The number of electors is easily accessible by the services of the Assembly of the Republic and we therefore believe that it would suffice to identify the subscribers of the legislative initiatives of citizens, the full name, the number of the citizen's card or identity card and the date of birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u352	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u353	I will now finish, Mr President. We believe that these amendments promote citizen involvement and participation in life and political decision and deepen the quality of our democratic system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u354	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Petitionário, who is attending our work, to whom I have already left a word of appreciation for the momentum he gave to this legislative initiative, which, moreover, is consensual on the question of the requirements but not so much as on the question of the number of signatures required. The CDS advocates an initiative such as this because of the quality, robustness and longevity of democracy. This quality of democracy is also related to the degree of involvement, accountability and participation of citizens. So the CDS understood that it made sense to deal with this matter. at a time when the distance between the electorate and the electorate prevails and worries, at a time when the distance of the citizens of public life is, every day that passes, more obvious — in which the rates of abstention in electoral acts are an infallible barometer — at a time when distrust and distrust in politics and in the public gain more and more body, it is absolutely vital to find ways that reverse this trend and that call again who really can and must have a word to say: citizens. This is exactly what the CDS proposes today, presenting here a set of amendments to the law that regulates the legislative initiative of citizens and which basically simplifies, in one step, procedures and requirements, giving, moreover, compliance with the constitutional emanations in this area, and, on the other hand, deepening participatory democracy. It was precisely for this purpose to democratise democracy that the CDS understood, therefore, that it should intervene in two ways. The first fell from 35 000 to 25 000 the number of signatures necessary for the presentation of citizens' legislative initiatives. And the number found doesn't result from a coincidence or a mere attempt, it has an obvious explanation. It is studied that in Portugal the minimum number for a Member to be elected in the larger parties is 20 000 to 25 000 wax.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u356	In what electoral circles? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u357	That is true, this is being studied, Mr President. You'll check-CL-me after it's not true. That is why we find it reasonable to approach these two realities and therefore propose a number of 25 000. The honourable Member says no. We will then evaluate, study and have the opportunity to do so at home. I am sure that the argument that 7500 signatures are not taken to elect the President of the Republic is enough, because one citizen is allowed to apply for the President of the Republic and another is the votes that are effectively needed to elect him. So that argument doesn't take that either. The second route, opening the possibility of presentation of the ILC is made by electronic means.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u358	There goes the democratization of democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u359	It is indeed incomprehensible that, in an era of ease of communication, the presentation of the ILC is not made by this way. Moreover, this proposal comes in the way of the deburocratization and removal of obstacles to the everyday lives of the citizens, making no sense we do not try to treat it. Obviously, we cannot neglect the precautions and guarantees necessary for this change. Therefore, because technological issues have a technical dimension that may have problems, as we have already experienced here in Parliament, we also propose that a working group be set up that, on the one hand, check the safety and reliability of an independent system of electronic reception of ILC, either via the Internet or by e-mail, and, on the other hand, gathers the experience of other European countries in this area, in order to adopt the best practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u360	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u361	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is obviously a long way from solving the problems that democracy faces, but it is a small step in that direction. And the CDS is identifying others, in which it is working, so that we can definitely re-approach the citizens of the voters, which is essential in a democracy that we want to be robust. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u362	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would also like, on behalf of the Group of the Green Party, to welcome the petitioners who, as we see from the number of proposals dragged into discussion with this petition, have finally mobilised Parliament for a legislative process already discussed in other parliaments. And this is also to say that the Greens represent, in this case, a bill that aims to make the legislative initiative of citizens accessible, although with an amendment to the bill we tabled in the previous Parliament. We believe that this instrument of citizen participation, the citizens' legislative initiative, is extremely important. In any case, the requirement to exercise this right 35 000 signatures is a factor that makes the exercise of this right virtually impeding, i.e. is an impediment to the exercise of this right and we must take this into account. In addition, given the small number of legislative initiatives by citizens who have so far reached the Assembly of the Republic, this should be a sign that would make us feel that there was any problem with this instrument of participation. in this sense, as in other legislations, the Greens resume their proposal in the sense of a substantial decrease in the number of signatures required. We must not forget that, with this number of signatures, a set of identification elements has been added. Therefore, it is not for those who are listening to us to sign the signature, but, yes, added to a set of identification elements. Now, what's going on? We need to find here some elements that will allow us to reach a certain number for a proposal. The Greens' proposal is 5500 signatures. Why? Having regard to some of the realities already mentioned today, such as the number of signatures necessary for the submission of a candidature to the Presidency of the Republic, 7500 signatures, and the number of signatures necessary to force the discussion of a petition in the Assembly of the Republic, 4000 signatures, we believe that an intermediate number between the two, for example, would be an appropriate number. The Member of the CDS says that these are realities that are incomparable, for example, with the candidatures of the Presidency of the Republic, because these are signatures required for the submission of a candidature and not for the election of a President of the Republic. Thank you, Madam Member, we are all fully aware of this, as I hope the CDS will also be aware that the signatures for a particular project to arrive at the Assembly of the Republic, then, do not have to do with its approval or rejection, because this is up to the legislative process that takes place in the Assembly of the Republic and to the 230 Members who are here representing the citizens. Therefore, we believe that this number that we present dignified the participation instrument of citizens who are the ILC, and dignified because it does not make it an impediment and because it obliges it to have a considerable number of subscribers, which, as I said, we propose that it be 5500. On the other hand, the novelty that this bill that The Greens present here today has to do with obtaining signatures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u364	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u365	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, it is only allowed to be obtained in a presence form and we propose that they can also be obtained electronically. We believe that it is incongruity that it is allowed to arrive at the Assembly of the Republic signatures by electronic means, for example, in the submission of petitions to the Assembly of the Republic, and that the same is not allowed for the legislative initiative of citizens. Either accepting the credibility of electronic signatures or not accepting them; as has already been accepted, it makes no sense that it does not accept the ILC.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u366	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on relations between civil society and parliaments is, as we all know, at the heart of the establishment of new forms of civic participation in modern states. Now, both this petition, which more than 4000 citizens presented to this Assembly of the Republic at the end of 2015, as well as the seven bills of law and the draft deliberation that are currently under discussion, are serious and qualified ways to promote this debate. With regard to the debate, although the Socialist Party presents its own initiative, I believe that it is important to establish justice first by raising the petition addressed to this House, which, in fact, constituted the right to see appreciated in this House, and we will value only this instrument of democratic political participation which the law recognizes if we comply with our obligation in relation to that right, which is precisely to appreciate this petition. Telegraphically, this petition makes a main request: the computerization of citizens' legislative initiatives with recognition of the need for presence signatures, with electronic signatures. Obviously, we all recognize the legislative obsolescence that exists at the moment and the PS follows this request. On the other hand, the simplification of the formalities of the initiative, which we also obviously recognize; the introduction of a deadline for the assessment of legislative initiatives, which we believe already exists in the law, but we can of course revisit; and finally the reduction in the number of necessary signatures, suggesting the number of 20 000. Now, the PS accompanies this number in its bill. As Mrs Vânia Dias da Silva recently asked me directly, I would like to remind you, as a member elected by the Aveiro circle, that the PS elected Members were -on average with 20 500 votes, and the same happens in Lisbon, which on average 20 353 votes elected a Member. Moreover, the only member of the NAP was elected by 22 000 votes and the PàF coalition elected its Member by Portalegre by 16 300 votes. Therefore, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, as you understand, 20 000 is a number that we consider appropriate. To demonstrate the reasonableness of this issue, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and by revenge on the proposal for 20 000 signatures, I would like to remind you that, at the moment in Europe, only four countries require fewer signatures than our proposal. See: Macedonia, Montenegro, Slovenia and Albania. However, if we apply to these four countries — and I believe that it must be applied — a reference criterion proportional to the population, and applying the same criterion to Portugal, Albania would have a minimum of 72 000 signatures, Montenegro would have 103 000, Macedonia would have 55 000 and Slovenia 25 000. That is to say, it is easy to see that the solution the PS recommends will make Portugal a country with greater openness to these types of initiatives. I conclude, Mr President, as I began: by greeting all, without exception, the proposals that are under consideration today. They converge in the recognition of the need to update and improve existing laws and, by doing so in the field of expertise, we will improve the operation and scrutiny of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u368	For the last intervention on this point, Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the organic law of the referendum and the law of the legislative initiatives of current citizens still be credible, we believe that time also allows, or requires, some changes. And I say - not from now on, we have already said it in the electoral programme that we have presented with the CDS-PP in the Portugal Front coalition, in which we assume that we would promote the simplification of the legal procedures and requirements required. We are fulfilling, with these two bills, what we promise in our electoral program. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u370	The PSD presents two bills that aim to reduce the number of tenderers or tenderers by 20 %, to 28 000 the legislative initiatives of citizens and to 60 000 the referendum. We cannot launch numbers without justifying them or having objective criteria for demonstrating them. The current 35 000 signatures required — despite having been given examples in which 17 000 and 20 000 votes were elected, there are also examples in which more than 35 000 and up to 40 000 votes, especially in large circles, had in mind, at that time, the number necessary to elect a Member on average. As shown here, for this initiative to be responsible, it is necessary to see comparative law, and Mr Filipe Neto Brandão could go further when he did that comparison. It is true that most countries in Europe require much more signatures than they are currently required and than what we propose today. That is why it is reasonable to be 28 000 in Portugal, which is even smaller than that required in most European countries. It is enough to say that our neighbouring Spain requires 500 000 signatures and most Central European countries 100 000 for such initiatives. I would like to congratulate this group of citizens, represented here by Dr. Ivo Pedro, as first subscriber, because he was responsible for presenting 20 000 signatures. The far-left has an auction of signatures: it starts at 5500 by the Greens Ecologist Party, goes to 5000 by the PCP and ends at 4000 by the Left Block. This seems like an auction of numbers without any consequences and no results in our opinion. Why? For a very simple question: if we look at the consequences of this result of numbers that they present — and of course they have taken this into account — they banalise an institute that has to have some dignity, they instrumentalize these kinds of initiatives, as we see in some petitions that they enter this Parliament, and condemn the direct representation of the elected Members who are here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u371	The PSD is stuffing this stuff!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u372	So I say — and I say it with all conviction — that you have not yet been able to change. It is that the constitutional model that applies in Portugal today is that of representative democracy and is not that of direct democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u373	I repeat: it is representative democracy and not direct democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u374	I will ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u375	Direct democracy can enrich it, but it cannot nullify this principle. So, my friends, and to end, I want to tell you that democracy cannot be just direct democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u376	We're not talking about signatures for your impeachment!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u377	Let me finish, Mr. Deputies. Members and parties may not do all democracy, but they are essential for democracy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u378	That concludes this point. Mrs. Members, on the last item on our agenda, which is on motions for resolutions Nos 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed on 8 April 2015, and 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Sultanate of Oman to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Fiscal Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 28 April 2015, are not timed. In fact, these motions for resolutions have already been voted on. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary will then take note of an initiative that has just entered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u379	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, draft resolution No 301 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — effective compliance with the recognition of fibromyalgia and the rights of fibromyalgia patients ( PCP ), which falls to the 9th Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-06.u380	Mrs. Members, having completed our work today, I inform you that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 11 May, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: Question No 2 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Focusing on the problems of regional asymmetries, desertification and depopulation of the territory and on the policies necessary to ensure the balanced development of the country ( CFP ). Good afternoon and good weekend, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours.]]
