ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries. The first item on our agenda today is the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the various parliamentary groups will be asking questions to the Prime Minister, and the first is the Left Block Parliamentary Group. however, before we start the debate, Mr Secretary will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 160 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Fight unjustified enrichment ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 161 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recognizes the right to 25 holiday days in the private sector ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 162 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The third amendment is made to the Baldios Act, approved by Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, ensuring its use to local communities that historically and according to the customs and customs to it are entitled ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 163 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replies the most favourable treatment principle ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 244 / XIII ( 1 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a set of measures promoting the exploitation of the territory ( PSD ), 245 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a strategic tourism plan for the next 10 years ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 246 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves a fundamental opinion on the violation of the principle of subsidiarity by the Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments between Member States and third countries in the field of energy and repealing Decision No 994 / 2012 / EU(Commission on European Affairs). Mr President, there is also a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, with effect from today, which must be voted on immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u3	Mr Secretary, then you have the floor to take account of the report and to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees refers to the resumption of mandate in accordance with Article 6. the, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Statute of Deputies, of the Member of the PS João Soares, electoral circle of Lisbon, ending Paulo Duarte Marques, with effect from 14 April 2016, including the replacement, in accordance with Article 20. paragraph 1 (a) of the Statute of Deputies of the PS Member John Paulo Rebelo, Viseu electoral circle, by José Rui Alves Duarte da Cruz, with effect from 14 April 2016, including. The opinion is to authorize the resumption of the term of office of Mr. João Soares, ending his mandate Paulo Duarte Marques, and the replacement of Mr. João Paulo Rebelo by José Rui Alves Duarte da Cruz, since legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us, then, start the two-year debate with the Prime Minister. As I mentioned earlier, the first question lies with the Left Block. That being the case, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, it has become public in recent days that the Banco de Portugal has a plan for a new injection of public money into the bank, absorbing part of the misappropriate credit. Mr Prime Minister referred to this project, which I do not know. I wanted to know when it will be submitted to Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u7	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u8	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Catarina Martins, I do not know this project from Banco de Portugal. I know I didn't defend any public money injection in the Portuguese bank. In an interview I defended something else: I assume that there is a problem, which is the need for, in order to be able to function well the communication of the European Central Bank's monetary policy to the real economy, solve a problem of corporate debt and create conditions for banks to have a more active participation in the financing of the national economy. Of course there are two ways of governing: one is pretending that problems do not exist and the other is assuming that problems exist. What I said in the interview — and to avoid spending time on it, I have it here so that I can read it — was just so useful that there was a vehicle, a tool, an instrument that would effectively solve the situation. [[CDS-PP protests.]] He said more: that we would develop contacts with regulatory entities, with financial entities, with a view to finding a solution. This is not an exclusive problem of Portugal. Several other countries have been looking for solutions, one through the creation of so-called « bad banks », others with the injection of public money. For example, Italy is currently developing an effort to create a solution without involving public money. There are other possible formulas. As you know, we have designed a mission unit on the theme of corporate capitalization and, as I said in this interview, it will also cover the financial sector. However, it is not about helping save banks, it is about securing funding for the Portuguese economy, which is an essential condition for growth and job creation. But, Mrs Deputy, I leave you with the original of the interview and you will be able to verify that my expression and intervention did not have to do with this proposal, which I do not even know will have been made by the Banco de Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u9	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Left Block does not know the existence of the problem, nor does it ever set itself aside to study solutions. Mr Prime Minister spoke of an Italian plan, but that plan only serves 1 % of the misappropriated credit. And we know that in Portugal there are more than half a million families who cannot afford the mortgage; we know that there are many companies that cannot pay their credits, and that is a problem for the economy; we know that programmes such as Spanish, which spent EUR 150 billion on the public record, have not put credit in the economy and have not served for anything; we know that the Italian plan, if it is only 1 % of the bad credit, does not solve the Portuguese problem either. So what I want to know is this: why does the Governor of the Banco de Portugal indicate that he wants a programme with EUR 20 billion and guarantees from the state? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u11	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u12	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the question about the Governor of Banco de Portugal will be put to the Governor of Banco de Portugal, because what I am clearly not a spokesman for the Governor of Banco de Portugal. What I said is what's in the interview. I'm not adding or withdrawing anything. I did not adhere to a solution 'to Italian' or 'to Spanish'. I hope, as in many other matters, that we can have a good solution to portuguese. And I am sure that the Left Block, with its creativity, will not fail to contribute to having a good 'to portuguese' solution, as we have had good 'to portuguese' solutions for other problems that the country has faced, and together we have managed to solve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u13	You also have the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, do you understand why I ask you this question? We do not want another slip like that of BANIF, in which the Banco de Portugal did what it understood, Santander won what he wanted to win and his government remained without the parliamentary majority. We don't want another case like that. I believe that those who listen to us have the right to ask, when they hear a « bad bank », if this whole operation does not ultimately serve to sell credit from banks to companies such as the Arrow Global — by Maria Luís Albuquerque — or if there is something here that really changes when we talk about banking and finance, because that is what we want it to happen. It is very difficult to see that we have had so much difficulty in debates in which we spoke of EUR 3 million for family allowance and then we are faced with news from the Banco de Portugal, which wants more EUR 20 billion of guarantees to the bank after the bank has already received EUR 12 billion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u15	These questions need to be answered, because we cannot be surprised. As I told you, we don't know the problem of bad credit and decapitalised bank, but we can't close our eyes to each other. It's that many times the Portuguese have been called to pay bank cancellations and sometimes it's all even worse than it was. I still remember listening to his predecessor Pedro Passos Coelho, in debates like this, to assure me that BES was not going to cost taxpayers a lot or to tell me that Banif's money was even well used because it was going to make profits. Badly tasted lighters! So if we're going to start studying, let's study. For the Left Block, a bank cleaning program must have three fundamental guarantees. First, it must be discussed here and in a transparent way. There can be no more last-minute European blackmails for solutions in which Portugal always loses. Secondly, private shareholders have to pay for the hole they have made and taxpayers have to have control over everything they pay. Thirdly, the decision on the assets themselves (what they are worth doing) has to have public control — throughout the process, there is public control — and the rules change. In order to begin this process, there are certainly two essential steps for which, for us, it was important to listen to the Government's commitment. The first is that, with this process, the General Deposit Box is strengthened as a fully public bank; the second is that the New Bank remains as a public bank with a viable and long-term operation. If not, we know that this will be exactly like every other time: to hand over to the international bank recapitalised banks clean with public money, because public guarantees are always, at the end of the line, public money, as we all know. And the Left Block won't be here for solutions where we lose money, lose decision-making capacity and lose economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u16	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u17	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, if I have done well, has expressed an intention and has placed five conditions. As for the intention, we share. The problem has to be solved and cannot be solved at the expense of taxpayers. There are five conditions; for the first three, we agree; for the question of the General Deposit Box, we agree; for the fifth condition, about the New Bank, I do not know whether or not we agree. There is one thing I have said and repeated and I have said in the last half-year debate on a question put by Mr Jerónimo de Sousa: as regards the New Bank, there are several possible solutions and therefore we must not rush and opt for one of the possible solutions, because the criterion to guide us must be that which has lower costs for taxpayers and which better ensures the stability of the financial system and the functioning of the national economy. So, for the start of the conversation, we're not bad. We agree on the intention, we agree on four of the five conditions and, on the fifth condition, we shall see. I can assure you of one thing: I will opt for your solution, if that is the best. As I said in the last fortnight debate, I will opt for the proposal, of the CFP, of nationalization, if that is the best. I will not opt for either, if I understand that they are not the best solution for the satisfaction of the public interest. As for the criterion, this will be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u18	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, if we start thinking of a bad bank with the criterion that the privatization of the bank is always a good way, even after the private bankers have always been so expensive to taxpayers, we are not correcting much of the mistakes that have been made so far. We understand: The New Bank has EUR 5000 million there from the taxpayers' money — the one who would never come in and just come in — and, if sold, no one will give you EUR 5000 million for it, which means that the other banks will be called to pay, such as the General Deposit Box, and the taxpayers will also be called to pay. This increases the problem throughout the financial system and increases the public problem. So when we look at all sides of this equation, we see that there is no good way out, that is not the one that is the most logical and simpler: where there is public money that sends what is public. If we already pay, we'll have to send. And the counterexample remains: if we clean up to re-deliver a private, whether a Santander or a La Caixa, what we're saying is that Portuguese taxpayers pay to always enrich the international bank, and that's not admissible. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, we have already talked about the fact that the Governor of the Banco de Portugal says things that eventually the Government does not know. And if it is true that the Governor of Banco de Portugal makes statements and makes decisions which the Government does not know, then we will have to start to ask ourselves how many serious failures the Governor of Banco de Portugal needs to recognise that the criterion of serious failure which obliges its removal is met. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I don't even want to talk about the mistakes that come from behind, but if it's true—and I believe it is because the Socialist Party's government has said so—... [[PSD laughter.]] ... that the Governor of Banco de Portugal, when he decided to open the BES resolution process to solve the problem of the New Bank, chose the creditors by personal inclination, without any criteria that were perceived and that this was done without permission of the Government putting Portugal on a dispute that could lose millions, or not a serious failure? If it is true, as we now see in the Banif Committee of Inquiry, that the Governor of the Banco de Portugal has not informed the government that asked the ECB to close the financing of Banif and that it has accelerated the process and caused us to lose more money, is it a serious failure or not? After all, when does the serious failure serve to replace the Governor of Banco de Portugal? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u20	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u21	Mr President, Madam Member, as you know, on the very night when the resolution was announced, I told the country that it would be a solution that had high costs for taxpayers and that they had every right to ascertain the whole truth. From the very first moment, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supported the initiative to set up a committee of inquiry. The Government has every commitment and willingness to provide all the information to the Commission of Inquiry, and looks forward to its conclusion. That is how we must act in such a way as to respect the powers of the Assembly of the Republic and to withdraw the conclusions which should be drawn on this matter. Moreover, it is true that we have not listened to the criterion which was defined by the Banco de Portugal on the selection of former creditors who would be sacrificed in relation to the New Bank's capitalisation process. That was it, and I can only confirm that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u22	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, very briefly the committees of inquiry have to have more than reports and conclusions, have to have consequences. The consequence, in this case, is that if the Governor of the Banco de Portugal has not informed the Government is a serious failure and must be dismissed. There are already too many serious failures! Secondly, Mr Prime Minister, I wanted to talk about the conclusions of another committee of inquiry which are in everything linked to the scandal of Panama Papers, which came again to show how offshores serve the richest of the rich never pay taxes and thereby entice those who live from their work, to recruit the countries that are obliged to pay the accounts with the escape of those who have the most.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u24	Madam Member, I ask you to synthesize!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u25	I feel very quickly, Mr President. in the heat of the BES Committee of Inquiry, we put forward proposals on the offshores that the Socialist Party at the time accompanied or abstained favourably. What we are now asking is that there be consistency and that it is possible to register the last beneficiaries of offshore banks so that the owners of the money cannot hide in offshore and those responsible for the financial crisis cannot hide in offshore. Secondly, that transfers are prohibited...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u26	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u27	With this, I conclude, Mr President. As I said, transfers to non-cooperating offshores are prohibited, those that do not give data to justice and where the worst crimes are hidden. The Block has very strong positions on the offshores. I am not expecting us to agree on everything, but I am hoping that there will be consistency so that these two simple, essential steps will have concrete progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u29	Portugal cannot be complicit in the crime. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u30	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u31	Mr President, Madam Member, this is an issue on which we have agreed, at least since I was the Minister of Justice. I would like to say the following: in the State budget we have approved two legislative authorisations which will be implemented by the Government this month. An authorisation was also approved in the State budget on the functioning of the Large Contributors Unit and how it should act and, in the coming days, will be regulated by carrying out these functions. We have just signed an international information-sharing agreement in January to ensure the circulation of information between different countries to combat these forms of tax evasion and money laundering that such platforms, often or in general at times, and surely of tax evasion and electoral always constitute. So that is what we are going to do, i.e. to implement what has been approved in the State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u32	We moved on to the PSD Parliamentary Group. To put questions, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, « The State cannot continue to have its own resources in the legal jurisdictions, having to systematically apply for outsourcing of lawyers' offices or financial analysts. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS laughter.]] « This weakens the protection of the public interest and makes those who momentarily serve the most permeable state to the normal influence of the activity they develop in other circumstances to their private customers. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Prime Minister, do you agree or disagree with this idea?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u34	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Pedro Passos Coelho on his re-election for the leadership of the PSD and the congress that took place after our previous debate and to wish him the greatest happiness in continuing his duties. Mr. Luís Montenegro, my answer is simple: I usually agree with what I say, because I usually say what I agree with. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u36	Not always!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u37	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, I believe that we are in the presence of another case in which the word given was not the word honored. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it is true that what I just read was said by you in June 2015, but it has nothing to do with what has been your practice, to go and look for someone to negotiate on your behalf and on behalf of the government, because you do not see the ability of your government or public administration to promote that negotiation. More than that, Mr Prime Minister, we are in the field of transparency, scrutiny and supervision of acts which are practised on behalf of the State. Mr. Prime Minister said last week that government members should not speak in public as if they were at the coffee table. I must tell you that it is very clear to the members of the government, but it must begin by itself, Mr Prime Minister! The way Mr. Prime Minister told the country that he had his best friend and that he was negotiating important governance cases for himself and that he didn't even need a contract, but, finally, that he should upset! , since everyone talks about it, it would even make a contract, does it not seem to you that it is a kind of serious coffee talk, because I repeat, we are in the field of transparency, scrutiny and supervision of acts that are practised on behalf of the State and the Government? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, Prime Minister, three and a half weeks later, has not yet arranged time to clarify Parliament and, in particular, the PSD Members, on the issues we addressed to you about their alleged intervention in the financial system, the holding of meetings with shareholders of private banks? This also means being scrutinizing and monitoring the action of the Government, starting with the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, this must be taken seriously! It seems to me that you are not actually fulfilling your obligation. What are you hiding, Prime Minister? Is there anything difficult about these answers? Mr. Prime Minister, we are one week when your Government and the majority in Parliament have rejected listening to a minister who resigned, refused to listen to the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, refused to listen to the direction of the Public Journal, recently refused to listen to the Ministry of Health, refused to listen to the former Chief of the Army's Chief of Staff who resigned... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... and I can also recall, Mr. João Galamba, that they refused, more than once, the conduct of an independent external audit to the BANIF. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, this is the standard, this is the profile of this majority! I have to tell you this: I've been a parliamentary leader for five years. I was here, in the Assembly of the Republic, for four and a half years to lead a bench, when we had an absolute majority, together with the CDS, and never in similar situations—I want to repeat very clearly—, we never in similar situations rejected the scrutiny and supervision of the Assembly of the Republic! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u39	Does the Prime Minister live well with this? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u40	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u41	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, as I said, I agree with what I said and therefore I have nothing more to withdraw or add to what I said in that interview. I have to do what I said in that interview. For this reason, the priority given to the establishment of centres of competence in the Public Administration was precisely for the legal procurement and, very briefly, the Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation will move forward with the establishment of the first Centre of competences which concerns the legal area. But I will deal with the matter that you did not want to refer here directly and that I will refer directly, because who should not be afraid. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u42	When I understood and recognized that the best way to avoid insinuations, misconceptions or any doubt about how Dr. Diogo Lacerda Machado collaborated with me, I ordered and determined the conclusion of a consultant contract with my office.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u43	Coward!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u44	This procedure was implemented, completed and has been published in the public procurement database since yesterday. I will bring you a printed version so that you can meet and there is no doubt about the contract. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am concerned, above all, about following the action Dr. Diogo Lacerda Machado has had. And in this regard, I would like to say the following: there was a problem in the country resulting from the damage caused by the BES resolution process. at that time, there were those who understood that what the state had to do was simply refer the damage of the BES to the justice system and offer the payment of its own purse, offer monetary help so that the injured could find access to justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, that was not my understanding. Access to justice is not a burden and the duty of the Government is to provide for the establishment of instruments of mediation, conciliation and arbitration to resolve problems that need to be resolved. It was in this file that I asked Dr. Lacerda Machado to work and which, fortunately, led to the signing by the Association of Lesados do BES, the Banco de Portugal, the CMVM and the BES of a memorandum that will allow, by the end of this month, to find a mechanism to reduce the losses resulting from a resolution determined in the previous legislature. There was a second question that we could not ignore: we had an important financial institution, with a determination by the European Union that made it necessary to deconsolidate with a financial institution in a foreign country and whose deadline ended very soon. We could have left the case running, as it had been so far, but I remember what happened to all the cases that let it run, as if the government were not having any action, but I didn't want a new BES, not a new BANIF. I therefore understood that it was the duty of the government to try to do what it was to do, to put the parties sitting at the table and to make them understand each other. the Government cannot replace itself with the parties, nor can it interfere with the plans and trade will of the parties, but it is not the duty of the Government to wave aside and pretend that there is no problem. Don't! This is not the function of the government and I am happy to see that the BPI informed the market last Sunday that the parties had reached an agreement. I hope that this agreement will be confirmed, that regulatory entities will approve it and that, if that agreement is good for the parties, it is a matter for the parties. Now the essential question for the country is not having a new BES, nor a new BANIF. Finally, there was a goal that the Government Programme had, in effect, that we could ensure that the State recovered 50 % of TAP's capital. This negotiation was conducted by Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure and was legally supported by the lawyer company that had been hired in the previous legislature to conduct legal consulting. But Dr. Diogo Lacerda Machado accompanied, in my representation, this process, which was a politically essential, more, strategically essential process for the country. And in a negotiation, which many said was impossible to achieve a good result, fortunately, we have achieved a good result and which guarantees what is essential. You failed the privatisation that you wanted and the state recovered 50 % of TAP's capital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u45	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u46	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister said that who should not be afraid, but look that it does not appear! I asked you questions about the obstruction of Parliament's supervisory capacity, which is under way in this majority, and on that Mr. Prime Minister said nothing, diverted attention. [[PS protests.]] I therefore hope that next week this majority will not impede the hearing of the former Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, who, on his way out, was warning that it would not return to your public office. I therefore await to know whether it is true that those who should not fear, Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, let's go to another subject. We have accompanied your visit to Greece and we want to tell you, in a very clear way, that we accompany the concern and solidarity of the Government with the Greek people, of course, and with the drama of the refugees who are in Greece. On this point we have a position that is very common, so I will not waste much time on it, Prime Minister. But on this visit, on its own initiative, there was certainly more than the approach to the subject of refugees. There was also an opportunity for us to understand the political complicity between the Portuguese Government and the Greek Government. And that, Mr. Prime Minister, has made it an image that the situations in both countries are similar. This image is a strategic error for our country, with all respect for Greece and the Greek people. We in Portugal have indeed had a rescue, but Greece goes on to the third; we have successfully completed this rescue, Greece has not yet closed the third and is faced with the need to make and take very difficult measures, and yet yesterday it has been announced, for example, the increase in VAT—I hope that Mr. Prime Minister has not gone to Greece to inspire himself, frankly I hope that this is not on the table. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I ask: do you not think this approach is wrong, from the point of view of the credibility and reputation of the Portuguese State and, more than that, from the point of view of respect for the one who has been the successful effort of the Portuguese in recent years? This is because we are only not equal to Greece because Portuguese families and companies have been up to responsibility. Isn't this approach a mistake, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u47	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u48	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, the Government does not comment on the activity of other sovereign bodies, including the Assembly of the Republic. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u49	The Government shall cooperate with the Assembly of the Republic, as it shall cooperate with all sovereign bodies. Yesterday, Mr Marques Guedes said that it was urgent for the Minister of Finance to come to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to provide further clarification and immediately the Minister of Finance was willing to come here again. The members of the Government will always be available to visit the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[It would be a mistake not to come!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u50	It would be a mistake for the Portuguese Government to maintain in the European Union the policy subject to the absence of the main issues of European policy, rather than seeking an active position on all the central issues of European policy. Today, one of the central issues of the European crisis is the refugee crisis. Relocating Portugal at the heart of European policy is to give Portugal priority to the contribution it can make to the resolution of a matter, which is a common issue throughout Europe, and not to put itself in a selfish position to understand that it is a problem of the Greeks. It would be a mistake for the Portuguese Government to try to distinguish between the relationship with all 28 Member States of the European Union, depending on their political orientation or their government composition. The Portuguese Government is a friend of all the countries of the European Union and seeks to have the best possible relations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same way that I went to Amsterdam - I met the Dutch Prime Minister, who takes the presidency, the same way I was in Berlin with Mr. Merkel, the same way I will be on Monday with the French Prime Minister in Paris, I was with Prime Minister Alexis Typras on Monday... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and we signed a joint statement... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I repeat, we signed a joint declaration,... [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Montenegro.]] I would like to know the point of this joint statement that you would not subscribe to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u51	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor, although the Prime Minister no longer has time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u52	Thank you, Mr President, I believe there will be other opportunities for the answer. Mr. Prime Minister must also have been very flattered by the reference that his friend Alexis Tsypras made to him, when he said that Dr. António Costa was closer to the Greek Communist Party than to the Greek Socialist Party. I believe, moreover, that there will be good reasons for, on a future visit, to be able to pay back this peacock, saying that Mr.Alexis Tsypras is much closer to the Portuguese Socialist Party than to the Portuguese Left Block. So we're talking about affinity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, Prime Minister, speaking in proximity to the Communist Party reminds, for example, of the project of nationalization of the bank, and I do not want to end this debate without asking a question, which has already been put to you and which has had a very curious answer from Mr Prime Minister, returning to coffee talks. Mr. Prime Minister told the country that there should be a vehicle to absorb the bad credit from the bank and that this was essential to finance the economy. It's a mistake, Prime Minister. It is true that banks have a problem with inequalities and bad credit, but it is a lie that banks today do not have the capacity to finance companies, because they are full of money to finance companies, as the Prime Minister knows, as well or better than I do. The problem is not that, Prime Minister. But, returning to the coffee talks, a prime minister does not throw an idea of these into the air and, after a week, comes to Parliament and says: "I didn't say anything! I sent a guess! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Prime Minister, what are you talking about? Oh, my God! What funds do you want to create this vehicle with? To pay for what, Prime Minister? A prime minister, when he has an idea of these, has to have a project. What is your project? [[You don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u53	What does the Prime Minister effectively defend?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u54	Sir, I ask you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u55	Mr. President, I am using the usual tolerance, even less than that of the previous intervener...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u56	Mr. Deputies, I just asked you to synthesize, it wasn't to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u57	Of course, Mr. President. I shall finish, Mr Prime Minister, by telling you that this is the answer that Mr Prime Minister has to give, and you must set the example. When he speaks, it is clear that he is competing with you for the opinion of a government, a sovereign body. I think we need to have an institutional position here, which Mr. Prime Minister is not having in this area. Mr. Prime Minister has to say exactly what your project is. I was finally able to say that, regardless of having not been, because there was no enthusiasm on the part of the bank, which is also curious, regardless of this, the idea can even be appropriate to be studied.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u58	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u59	But there must be an idea, Prime Minister. Secondly, we in Portugal today do not know whether we need a bad bank for impartiality, but we need to stop having a bad government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u60	Mr Luís Montenegro, the Bureau always follows the same criteria, regardless of the parliamentary groups, which is to warn and ask for the synthesis of the intervention and then to make a balance in relation to the conclusion of the intervention. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thought that after the PSD Congress, and this was the first 15-year debate, the PSD had fulfilled what it promised the Portuguese, but we are already used to failure to fulfill its promises. I would therefore like to tell Mr Luís Montenegro that the PSD should have been able to speak in transparency in saying that it is this majority that hinders hearings. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Just do a Google research, Mr. Member, to see how many hearings, with statements by Mr. Luís Montenegro, were obstructed by VV. Ex.as and, of course, when former Minister Relvas threatened a public journalist with disclosure of data from his private life,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u62	...Mrs. Members did not get angry and kept this member in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD seems to be actually in an ongoing whitening process. He goes to the PSD Congress to say that there is now a new social-democracy, a social-democracy always, a PSD who thinks that he can continue the opposition to deceive the Portuguese, when, for four and a half years, what he did was not fulfilling the promises, impoverish the country and disgrace Portuguese families. But I would like to greet Mr Pedro Passos Coelho because at least he can say that there is democratic legitimacy in this government bench, and therefore welcome to parliamentary democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the gentlemen. PSD Members continue to say that what they are now doing is presenting a set of proposals. Well, I would say that no proposal is relevant, it is more than the same or, then, it is the attempt to return to the proposals which have been piped by the Portuguese people and which have given rise to this government and this option. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD wanted to make an account that it was social-democrat or that it had returned to its origins. But let us be serious here too, Mr Luís Montenegro, who today has chosen to speak of various cases of fact rather than the actual life of the Portuguese. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u63	As regards the refund of the overtax, the PSD votes against! Full replacement of wages, against! Increased solidarity for the elderly, against! Increased social income of insertion, against! Increase in family allowance, against! Proposals even submitted by the Madeira-PSD, against! — such was the PSD's fury to be against. IMI reduction, against! Prohibiting the hardship of families, against! Question, ladies and gentlemen. Members: what social democracy is this? [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we're not deluded anymore. The gentlemen. Members were thus ruling against the Portuguese, always against the Portuguese. at the end of the PSD Congress, I had the opportunity to invite your leader to present proposals to the country. And I am absolutely amazed because I thought it had been successful in my request, except when the PSD presents the following proposals (we do an exercise, Mrs. Members): reduce autonomous taxation on variable income taking the form of participation in the company's capital. I'm translating, ladies and gentlemen. Members: tax benefits to premiums and bonuses typically given to managers and better paid workers. After all, it is not to think about what they need most... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u64	... but, yes, taxing the highest incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But as if the ridiculous isn't enough, sirs. Members, they propose to reduce at IRS headquarters—note, to reduce at IRS headquarters—the taxation of dividends and capital gains to the lowest income levels, also to define them, to encourage savings. Mr. Members, capital securities? Oh, my God! Who's got the lowest income? Oh, my God! When more than 50% of Portuguese does not pay IRS and when the Portuguese minimum wage is €530, fruit, indeed, of the increase given by this government? Oh, my God! This measure, presented by the PSD, only benefits those who live in the virtual world of clean exits that throw down the carpet the truly inconvenient realities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members in this virtual world live no Portuguese, only the PSD bench that no longer has the support of the CDS because it is already divorced from your reality. We know, sirs. Members, that times and the European environment do not benefit us, but we will do what is most important: to comply with what we promise in the opposition in government. I know you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extravagance, but this is our brand: promise and comply! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have always made our priorities clear: to bet on employment growth, to give value to people, to manage public resources partially. Our interest in people, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not conjuncural or instrumental, it is even the consequence of an intransigent commitment to the dignity of the human person, a dignity that is played today in the tragedy of refugees. And once again, in this debate today, it is clear from which side the PSD is: from what Chancellor Merkel says ; from what the European dictates say that they are against the basic values of the European Union and that they may be in discussion here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But Mr Prime Minister has been in Greece and this has given two very important signs to the Portuguese. Portugal is not a country closed about itself, it is still a country that elevates the value of human dignity and is therefore willing to contribute to support the reduction of the suffering of refugees. Democratic Portugal has always been, and will always be, a country of solidarity that believes in human rights and that it really does practice them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal is not, nor can it be, a country worthy of neoliberalism converted to austerity. That is why, Prime Minister, the second sign which leaves it, together with the progressive forces of Europe, now in Greece, but also in France, in Italy, and hopefully in Spain briefly, Europe changes its orientation so that it fully respects the European method which does not need to have its own voice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister, I do not finish this speech without telling you that this bench is proud of your courage to face the bank problem. Others hid the bank problem, others let the bank bring us problems... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u66	...and others penalized taxpayers, small and medium-sized companies, sacrificing them, at the cost of trying to save the bank. After all, what they left us was a hole. Mr Prime Minister made a few proposals. And here I want to leave, on behalf of the Socialist Party's bench, the following question: I know you have fulfilled what you promised and I know you will continue to do, but what are we willing to do to strengthen banking supervision here and in Europe, so that phenomena like Banif or BES cannot happen again? I believe you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the debate we should be discussing. What you have been doing for four and a half years was ignoring the need for demanding supervision, real supervision of what was going on in the bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u67	I ask you to synthesize, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u68	I now end by saying that this debate shows once again that the right is concerned about cases and the 'foam of days' and that the Government is concerned about solving the real problems of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u69	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u70	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, Europe is facing a perfect storm today and we cannot escape the perfect storm in which we are. This is a perfect storm where there is an emotional breakdown of millions of Europeans with the European project, the result of the crisis and its worsening by austerity, by the drama of unemployment and poverty, which has led to social ruptures in many countries, with the strengthening of populism and extreme right across Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is added to the fear and doubt about the stay or exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union. In addition to this is the destruction of the great achievements of the European Union, which is freedom of movement, with countries making the decision to close internal borders instead of, in solidarity, supporting ourselves in the surveillance of the external border. The denial, which exists in many European countries, of what is one of the greatest duties Europe has before the world, which is to guarantee international protection to those who, fleeing war, fleeing dictatorships or fleeing serious economic or environmental crises, seek protection in Europe. Europe cannot be destroyed by destroying its values, nor can it be destroyed by failing in the great achievements of the European project. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For Europe to face these challenges, it is necessary to rebuild the unity of the European project. What has happened over the past four years has been too bad with the re-creation of divisions between North and South countries, rich and poor countries, central and peripheral countries, creditor countries and debtor countries. No, it is not Europe that will be able to cope with the problems it has to face. Europe that we must meet the problems we have to face is a Europe based on equality of States and solidarity among all of them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why it is essential that we be active in rebuilding this European project. The statement we have signed with the Greek Government is an exemplary statement in reaffirming the values of Europe, in terms of refugees, in reaffirming the importance of Europe's foreign and security policy, in stabilizing the conflicts that exist at our external borders, whether the threats to democracy in Ukraine, or the threats of armed conflict in Syria, are the threats of terrorism that we have at our own borders. But it is also exemplary in the political will, that it is necessary to have a European majority, to have a new orientation of economic policy in Europe, a political orientation that does not disregard the importance of sound public finances, debt reduction, manageable deficits, but that takes as priority economic growth, shared prosperity and job creation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What's wrong was what was done in the past. In other words, Portugal was wrong to have found that its position in Europe was not that of building bridges and solutions. The good tradition of Portugal, since accession to the EEC then, in all governments, of different majorities, has always been that of being able to affirm internationally. Portugal was not internationally stated only when, instead of being a bridge and an active contribution to the solution of European problems, on the contrary, it aligned itself with sectarian positions and factions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was the case when Portugal supported and placed itself in a minority in support of Iraq's war and so on when Portugal blindly adopted the policy "beyond the troika", which had harmful effects in the country and also in the whole of European policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, here too, this government is different from the previous government. [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u71	And it is up to the Portuguese to judge whether this government has a better political orientation or whether the previous government has a worse political orientation. And what was desirable was that the opposition, rather than encouraging a whole week of cases and taking days to say that either a contract, or a contract, said that the contract exists, but the answer I hear from the parliamentary leader of the PSD is that I am diverting attention from what is essential. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I therefore thought that I could tell us what is essential, telling us here what it disagrees with the statement I signed with my colleague Alexis Tsypras. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Say there, Mr. Deputy, what do you disagree about? Do you agree that it is necessary for Europe not to have a policy based solely on austerity and that it must bet on growth and job creation? Oh, my God! Do you agree that Europe must have a social policy that responds to the social dramas that have affected the countries that have suffered the adjustment programmes? Oh, my God! Does he disagree with the understanding that we must have a solidarity policy with those seeking refuge in Europe and a solidarity policy between all Member States in the management of an external border, which is common, and also in the sharing of our duty to receive refugees looking for us? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] what do you disagree with the statement I signed with Mr. Alexis Tsypras? Unless, of course,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u72	Prejudice!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u73	... that the PSD, purely and simply, even if it agrees with what is written in the statement, disagrees with the statement that it has been signed with the Greek Government and with my colleague Alexis Tsipras. Mr Luís Montenegro, on the day we accept that any Member State has the right to replace the democratic legitimacy of each people in each Member State by choosing their own government, we will definitely have killed democracy in Europe and the support of European Democrats for the European project. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, with great satisfaction, I did not continue with the policy that had been followed, as a redemption of our suffering, ask for more suffering for our partners. Don't! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The suffering of the Greeks does not alleviate the suffering that you have inflicted on the Portuguese. What we have to have is a new policy in Europe as a whole which makes the Greeks suffer less than Portuguese and makes no one suffer in Germany, Holland or Finland. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We work with all the governments of the European Union and with all of them we will contribute positively to an economic policy that strengthens European growth, employment and economic convergence, because without further convergence we will not reduce asymmetries and without diminishing asymmetries we will not have greater stability in the euro area, and more instability in the euro area is bad for those on the periphery, but it is also very bad for those who are in the richest economies and must also bear the cost of what happens on the peripheries. There is no single currency with 28 countries with 28 different guidelines. We must have a convergence in economic policies because this is the only way we can effectively support, defend, promote and strengthen the importance of the euro, which must also be a priority of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u74	We now move on to the intervention time of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u75	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, even before we enter the agenda of this 15-year debate, allow me to go back to a topic of our 15-day debate which has been « hanging ». I would like to ask you if you would like to take this opportunity to correct what you then told me about the alleged illegalities committed by the previous government in contracting the Port Metro concession. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u76	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u78	Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u79	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, then I have something to add and I will distribute, so that the Prime Minister will be made clear about the wrong, not to say a lack of truth, which he committed 15 days ago. at that time, he said that the previous government had committed illegalities and, therefore, when his government arrived, the Court of Auditors led to the granting of the Port Metro. For here I have the answer from the Court of Auditors to this House, which simply says that the contract had been returned to supplement the instruction and clarification of doubts, which is perfectly normal. And then he says that « the annulment of the proceedings by the audited entity has been requested », the command of his government « and therefore the Court has failed to take any final decision regarding the contract in question ». [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] But let me continue, then, Prime Minister, on the agenda this week. Let me introduce here the topic of economic growth. Every week we have national and international entities to talk about this. This week we heard the IMF review the prospects for growth, we heard the Catholic University do the same and you fear not to present this House, in advance and in time for debate, the Stability Programme, which should be presented in step with the National Reform Programme. We all realize that there is no good news there, we realize that there comes a B plan of austerity and we already know, Prime Minister, what does not come in that plan of austerity and in that plan B. In fact, I must say that his statement, unfortunately, reminded me of a statement from the then Prime Minister, also from the Socialist Party, when he presented the Memorandum of the Troika saying what was not coming there and not saying what was coming there. So I will now give you the opportunity to tell us, taking advantage of this moment, what comes in this Stability Programme, what comes in this austerity plan B and now I ask you if you want to inform us when we are going to have a higher standard VAT rate, so that we can all prepare ourselves. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u80	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u81	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, as you know, we have scheduled the debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme for the 27th day. We have been preparing and encouraging public debate on the National Reform Programme, as never before,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u82	You can't explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u83	... either here in the Assembly of the Republic, either with the social partners, or with the National Council for Territorial Consultation, either with the Council for the Social Economy, and we have also received with interest the proposals that your party presented yesterday, either sectoral proposals that the PSD has presented — some very bad, other interesting ones and that deserve our interest, which the Council of Ministers will approve, on the next day 21, for the preliminary draft of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, so that soon everyone can know them for the debate we will have here on the next day 27. I do not insist on hiding anything, Mrs Deputies, but because there is no advantage I would have to hide what I will have to present here sooner or later. What I've been trying to do is have a Stability Programme based on the most sound and up-to-date information. I also say « more reliable and up-to-date information », particularly since this week's forecast of the world economy, of the European economy, of the economies of the markets with which we have the most important relations and forecasts are not good and therefore not good expectations for Portugal. Even this week, the Catholic University made a review of its own perspectives on growth based on three fundamental causes: on the one hand, the fact that the economy had slowed down in the last half of 2015 much more than what was the information it had provided the Center for Studies of the Catholic University itself ; on the other hand, the fact that the structural deficit of 2015 had not had the reduction that had been predicted, on the other hand, had a negative behavior; and, thirdly, the impact on the economy of the negotiation that Portugal had made with the European Union for the Budget of the State for 2016 had forced us to have a budget of the least expansionist state, contributing less to a greater growth of the economy. All of this is, of course, reflected on the prospects we will have in the Stability Programme and the Stability Programme must be based on the realism of the forecasts, because it is important not to confuse the following: we can discuss whether or not we want to be voluntary in the measures to be taken, but in terms of forecasts it is not appropriate to be voluntary. In terms of forecasting, it is appropriate to be conservative and predictable. That's what we've been trying to do, and that's what we're gonna keep doing. But, Mr Member, there is one thing I wanted to say to you: it is not worth shaking in the next five days, or even in the next two or three weeks the pope that we are going to increase the VAT rate, because it is a daddy that will fade at the end of these three weeks. Therefore, it is best to choose another line and, with a little more imagination, you will certainly find good themes of opposition to the government, but with a little more imagination and less potatoes. Knowing your love for the family and the children, no, no, Daddy's not there, it's not worth it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u84	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u85	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am pleased to note that we are not going to have an increase in the normal VAT rate, which I have just deducted from your words, when you said that the reduced rate would be maintained for essential goods and, on the contrary, you felt, the possibility of increasing the maximum VAT rate would be open. I look forward to knowing, registering and I hope you will fulfill your promise not to increase the VAT rate. With regard to forecasts and the National Reform Programme, for which the CDS has also contributed and will contribute in this House, Mr. Prime Minister is concerned with the growth of the economy — I believe that we are all — he is concerned about the behaviour of exports, he is concerned about the investment in our country and on this subject he wanted to ask why he has reduced the target of export weight in GDP by 2020. Why do you just hold your shoulders and think you can't do anything? Why is he not able to give instructions to his ministers to move the world to help Portuguese companies export? Why is it ashamed to say internationally that you do not have a success story here to tell that you trust foreign investors in order to attract foreign direct investment to our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u86	Well, that's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u87	Why would you prefer to go to Greece — for good reasons, attention, in regard to refugees has all our solidarity and follow-up — to sign an agreement with someone who is the champion of austerity, because he is now a champion of austerity, in the third rescue, or if he is with the other who would like to be but who has never been able to be it? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u88	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is very simple: for none of these reasons, as you well know, but for another good and unique reason, which you well know. We must adjust export forecasts in a conservative, realistic way, to what is the forecast of international bodies on the evolution of the world economy. I think the answer is clear and I know I had no doubt that the answer would be this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u90	In the use of the word, please, Mrs. Assunção Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u91	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that one of the functions of the Government is to make predictions, but it is also true that it is working to make things work in the best sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u93	Therefore, I challenged him to resume this objective and work for him, as he also challenged him to put in his National Reform Programme concrete goals of attracting foreign direct investment to our country. And now, with regard to investment and its concern also with private investment, because I believe that it does not only believe in public investment, it is worth asking you this question: recently, your Government, through the Socialist Party, has reverted a reform done successfully by the previous Government. I am referring to renting and urban rehabilitation. And he turned it over with « wool-pigs», in a discreet way, about a good theme, for which, in fact, municipalities already have protective instruments, as in the case of historical shops. But with a good pretext, it ended up making a reversal of these measures as well. My question is whether you do not believe in private investment in this area, whether you prefer to freeze income and you will be able to ensure that the EUR 1, EUR 4 billion of pensioners who want to put into public investment in urban rehabilitation will not eventually generate a hole to be paid by taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u94	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today your questions are characterised by rhetorical questions and not with the objective of replying. Ask me if I believe in private investment? Yes, I believe in private investment. I wonder if I believe in the mobilization of social security funds for rent, how can we diversify the sources of social security financing? Yeah, I do, too. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u96	Mrs Assunción Cristos, if you wish, you can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u97	Mr President, Prime Minister, if you believe in private investment, as I believe, then it is good to provide conditions for private investment to happen. It is good not to stop the IRC reform, it is good not to return to the freezing of income, it is good to let those who were believing in the country continue to believe and invest in it. Therefore, do not revert everything because it will certainly not be there. [[CDS-PP applause.]] On another subject, which in fact denotes the slightness with which Mr. Prime Minister has been dealing with all these issues, from the lease to rehabilitation, to the issues that have already been mentioned of his presence in Greece, joining, in a very nice photograph, hands given against austerity with the champion of austerity, there is, again, another issue where this slightity was particularly evident. This theme has already been focused here by several benches and certainly the CDS also has objective, not rhetorical questions to be answered. And the questions are: for the said vehicle — bad bank or whatever you want to call it, tool, instrument, finally, the name you want to adopt — how did you calculate the EUR 20 billion of needs? Are you in a position to say it's 20 and not 30 or 40? What is the model for this vehicle? Is it public or private? Who's gonna manage it? Is it more like Ireland or Spain or more like Italy? Who will bear that cost? What's going to fall into taxpayers' pockets to pay? Have you checked the funding conditions for all this? Have you already checked its effectiveness with the European institutions, particularly with DGComp, or have you even used the ECB President's coming to Portugal to exchange views on this matter? It is, in fact, the way in which Mr Prime Minister put this issue on our agenda — a light, light form, as well as an idea that stands in the air — is, in my view, very worrying, very serious. Of course, we will now have the opportunity to see these matters clarified. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u98	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u99	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, finally a question! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u100	It's the first one to know the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u101	Mr Telmo Correia, will you excuse me? If you'll excuse me, I'll answer. It is a question of respect for the CDS leader, who deserves an answer to the question you have asked. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u102	I asked five questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u103	Don't get irritable, Mrs. Deputy. As you know in the Government's own programme, the concern about the stability of the financial system and the need to find answers to this problem is very clear. It wasn't my invention, light. The honourable Member has read with certainty, because she always follows these matters carefully, the reports of the European Commission on the country's structural situation. Now, on the first page of the summary / summary (there is no need to waste much more time) one of these reports says that the high and increasing levels of credit in the business sector are weighing on the financial and non-financial balance sheets and are an important obstacle to investment. In fact, one of the recommendations contained in the report from the European Commission is that we face this matter. I feel, in fact, well-accompanied with this concern by many people who have seriously spoken on this matter - and people as suspicious as Dr Durão Barroso or Mr President of the Republic. And what I said in the interview was not lightly, it was strictly. With rigor, what I said was that we have to work with the regulatory and financial institutions, within the mission unit and also, as the result of the National Reform Programme, in the resolution of the so-called "non-performing loans", i.e. simply translated the misappropriated credit. I think it was useful for the country to find a poor credit resolution vehicle in order to release the financial system of a monkey which makes it difficult to participate more actively in the financing needs of Portuguese companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u104	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President. So I was worried to tell you who we're going to work with and whom we're working with. There is one question whose answer I would like to know, which answer I anticipate, but in any case I also ask the rhetorical question: does the CDS recognise that there is a problem and that this problem must be solved? If you understand that, I would also like to be able to count on the CDS suggestions so that the CDS can contribute positively, as we all have a duty to contribute, to solve a problem. Now, there is one thing that the ex-Minister will certainly have remembered of her four years of government experience: that no problem is solved by pretending that he does not exist. Problems are solved, solving them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u106	The questions of the CFP Parliamentary Group follow. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u107	Mr President, Prime Minister, as this debate reflects, the concerns of Portuguese with the financial system continue to be great. We have seen revelations about the movement of capital in offshore and cover-up that ensure immoral, illegal and even criminal practices, starting with tax evasion by large economic and financial groups. The Banco de Portugal's action in the Banco de Portugal case adds new reasons for mistrust regarding banking regulation and supervision and for the purposes that they really serve. On the other hand, despite all the injustices that have already been committed, of the options that have forced the people to pay off bankers in BPN, BPP, BES and BANIF, the risk of the people being called again to pay the bill of damage to the bank continues to cloud our collective future, now also placing this concern on the basis of the possibility of the establishment of a financial vehicle that brings together the misappropriated credit and the toxic assets of the national bank. at the same time, concerns have been raised about the future of the General Deposit Box, considering the difficulties that the European Union may bring to its recapitalisation by the State with the aim of making the public bank disappear immediately or in the future. All these concerns require a firm and determined political response, both at the national level and at the international level. from the CFP, we have made a contribution to this response, in particular with the proposals we have already made to combat the offshore practices and practices they cover, to which we will shortly add a proposal to create a rate that will prevent them from immediately using them to escape the payment of taxes. As for other matters, in our perspective, solutions to financial problems have to be found without the people being called on to pay the bank holes again, without compromising the State with the losses of the private bank and ensuring that credit can be effectively managed as a public good at the service of the country and national development. And we are not only talking about the public control of the bank, which we continue to consider as an essential element in ensuring these objectives, we are also talking about the need to immediately ensure the recapitalisation conditions of the General Deposit Box which strengthen the Box and its role as a public instrument for intervention in credit policy, particularly to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, can anyone explain that the public money goes to the private bank and to the bad bankers and can't it be used to recapitalize the public bank? It's an aberration that needs to be clarified. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u109	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, on a matter of time management, I will concentrate and answer directly to the central issue of the General Deposit Box. For the Government, there is an indisputable question: the General Deposit Box should be 100 % public and should be capitalised by the use of public capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u110	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u111	Today and tomorrow, because the General Deposit Box is the major stabilisation pillar of our financial system and is an essential guarantee of national sovereignty itself in the financial system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have said and repeat: I do not consider an interpretation of the European competition law to be admissible which, by imposing on the General Deposit Box the same capital ratios as any other private bank, prevents, in practice, its shareholder, the State, from making the same capitalisation effort as private shareholders have to do with their banks. There is one thing I will guarantee you: we will do everything we can and beat-CL - in all European bodies to ensure the capitalization of the General Deposit Box so that it will continue to be the major pillar of stability in our financial system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, the government's proposal for the BANIF solution was to separate the good BANIF from the bad BANIF and to integrate the good BANIF into the General Deposit Box as a first step towards capitalisation. You know that. In fact, the CFP at the time expressed support for this solution. Unfortunately, this solution has not been accepted by the European institutions—and bad! Bad for the General Deposit Box and bad also for the solution of BANIF. But with regard to the General Deposit Box, this is a position which we have clearly defended and exposed in all instances of the European Union. It is also in this sense that I have repeated that it is essential that there be better coordination between the ECB and the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Union, so that some do not impose requirements which others are unable to comply with. According to our interpretation, the Treaty on European Union establishes the principle that each Member State is free to define its ownership regime. This means a guarantee of the Treaty to full freedom that we must have a 100 % public bank,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... guarantee that it cannot be distorted by competition rules. This is our position and this is our position. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u112	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u113	Mr President, Prime Minister, you can count on the CFP to achieve this goal of recapitalizing and strengthening the General Deposit Box, to contribute to strengthening our growth, our development and our support for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[PCP and PS applause.]] And if we highlight this question, it is not because we have any fixation on the issue of the financial system, that we know that all the measures that are found will have negative or positive effects on the life of the country, on the life of our people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u114	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u115	So when we are often confronted with the argument that there is no money for reforms and pensions, there is no money for wages, there is no money for social protection, we always find the underlying cause in this huge ice cream that has been the financial system. In view of this concern, the question I would like to put to you, Prime Minister, has to do with the following: we have made our Parliamentary Days in Vila Real and Bragança and have raised great concerns, great issues, of course, relating to the problems of the interior, with the issues of asymmetries, of regional development, but we have also recorded, and above all, issues related to the rights of those who live and work there. From our point of view, the first fight against asymmetries and desertification is to meet the rights and aspirations of workers, in particular in relation to collective bargaining, the deregulation of schedules, the compatibility of family life with working life. It is necessary to reduce the weekly working time to 35 hours not only for public administration workers but also for private sector workers, a proposal which the CFP has already taken and which will shortly present. Allow me, Mr Prime Minister, to refer to a matter of great importance, which is the right to reform workers with a long career of contribution. There are thousands of men and women who, after 40 years of work, cannot reform themselves, or if they do, have brutal cuts. That a worker, after a working life in a textile company, takes home 200 € or 300 € of reform is, in fact, an injustice, an unacceptable situation. We believe that it is essential to bear in mind that, at the end of 40 years of working life, it is fair and deserved to allow a reform without penalties. [[PCP and PS deputy Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u116	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u117	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I share with you, and it was assumed in the National Reform Programme that one of the central issues for us to have innovation and human resources qualification in our companies is to combat precariousness and guarantee better employment. He even said that precariousness is the greatest enemy of productivity. That is why, together with the various measures that need to be taken, we must combat very seriously precariousness, improve the quality of employment and the qualification of human resources, including lifelong training. It's absolutely crucial. We also consider, and we follow it, that it is necessary to solve the problem of collective bargaining. It is unfair to have the situation we have and, therefore, we have been working, both at legislative and social level, to unlock the framework of collective bargaining. As you know, in relation to some public companies, we have already acted to stop the expiry of collective bargaining instruments that were at risk of becoming expiring. We do not want a blocked collective contract, we want an active collective contract, in order to regulate rights and duties in labour relations in the sector and in the best way. I am referring now to the issue you have raised with regard to the reforms. The government suspended a law that was unfair and penalized a lot of workers. The long-term unemployed with long-term contribution careers today have more favourable conditions. But we know that the problem is not fully solved and we do not ignore the issue you have raised. We do not have an answer for her right now, but we are concerned about finding an answer. We are working, including the Minister for Labour, with a view to answering this question. We have not yet reached a final format, but that is our goal, because we believe that justice needs to be ensured alongside the sustainability of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u118	To ask questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u119	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I may, I believe that it must follow a principle that is basic, that it is not to give credit, in terms of credibility, to those who have indeed been the champions of austerity in Portugal and who have spent their lives trying to stay in photos with the champion of the imposition of austerity in Europe, that is, Mrs Merkel. So, Prime Minister, what we must do is try to get us to block ourselves from this path and put ourselves on a path that serves growth, development and populations. That is why, Prime Minister, today, as the debate has already shown, we must necessarily talk about the bank. I believe that the Portuguese are full, very tired of seeing the money and resources that the country can be willing to inject into the bank, and this was the way that the PSD and the CDS took. Mr Prime Minister, for BES, was nothing less than EUR 4900 million. If we think that this value is so close to the annual budget for education, this has to catch up. For BANIF, it was EUR 3300 million. If we think that support for the arts is as simple as 12 million euros and that what was injected into BANIF would give to support the arts in this amount for about 275 years, this is absolutely sad, Prime Minister! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u120	If we think that this value that was injected into BANIF could lead to the fact that Portuguese higher education students were 11 years old, this is absolutely shocking! That is why, Mr. Prime Minister, when you hear of a vehicle, a tool, an instrument to solve the bad credit of the banks, the Portuguese people immediately ask a question: who pays? Who would pay, Prime Minister? [[Congratulations from Os Verdes and PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u122	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I can tell you who will not pay: the Portuguese. The problem exists and needs to be resolved, but it cannot be resolved again at the expense of taxpayers. It is necessary to undo in this universe what has been treated with some ease as garbage, because I see often referred to as active waste that may, perhaps, be overrated in the balance sheet and constitute inequalities. They may be assets that do not have an immediate valuation because there is no market to carry out their valuation, but they are active and therefore cannot be broken down. It is hard for me to see, in addition to all this sacrifice that has been imposed on taxpayers, that they have been brutally devalued assets and wealth, that, with a timely management, they could certainly value and be properly valued. I do not make solutions other than one: that are the taxpayers to pay. That said, we have to explore other solutions, solutions that are being worked out in other countries and several technical solutions are being proposed. In fact, the mission unit we have designed for the capitalisation of companies is also working on this issue. There is one thing we cannot do: to pretend that there is no topic and that there is no problem. The first step in solving a problem is to assume its existence and say, with transparency, that we want to work on it and we want to work with the institutions so that a solution can be found. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I can only follow her up to the limit she has drawn: no, it cannot be the taxpayers to pay again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u123	To ask questions, if you will understand, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u124	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I believe it is important to register here and I believe that the Portuguese want to trust that word, i.e. that they will not be the Portuguese taxpayers to pay. The Portuguese are tired of paying for the banks and the problems that the banks themselves create must be solved in another way, making those who cause these evictions to pay the result of these evictions. I believe that this logic must be an imperative in solving these problems. On the other hand, Prime Minister, we are in a model that sucks people a lot of money. This issue of PanamaPapers and offshorers has revealed that we are faced with a model that has to be stopped and very detailed on some issues that clearly harm States, populations and development capacities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u125	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u126	I will finish, Mr. President. It is money that does not enter the state, it is money that is “washed” and it is money that is lost for what should be used. We have to work for development and that is the competence that governments have to grasp and solve. Even in conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to make the point of the situation on asbestos, and I say why: I have received many requests from citizens to try to understand how is the question of timing the government's action on asbestos in public buildings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u127	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u128	I would like to have the ability to give a reply to the citizens. Therefore, Prime Minister, in the face of this public health problem which the Greens have sought to contribute to resolving in the Assembly of the Republic, I would like you to make the point of the situation to the citizens. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u129	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u130	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, offshore are one of the greatest plagues in our world. They are an economic pest, because they distort competition, they are a financial pest and they are a scourge from the point of view of organised crime. In fact, the bank is not exempt from many responsibilities in this area. Mr António Filipe recalled the legislation that was adopted in the early 2000/2001 on money laundering and its fight, and I also recall how many banks circulated to their customers written and signed information by their presidents of the board of directors saying that the legislation would be amended but that there were ways of being able to have accounts not covered by this legislation in this and that place of the world. I remember this very well, I did not forget and every time I hear about banking and risk, I remember well what I learned, while I was a Minister of Justice, about the kind of behaviour on these matters. Today, we pay a very expensive price for this, and we pay the whole of Europe! at that time, the French Presidency organized a joint council between the ministers of justice and finance, where I participated with the then Minister of Finance Guilherme d’Oliveira Martins, and I very well remember the two worlds that were there and what was the position taken by each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u131	I ask you to synthesize, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u132	I'll be done. One of the few countries that made a single speech on this matter between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance was the Portuguese Republic, and that is how we must continue, as I have already had the opportunity to say when I answered one of Mrs Catarina Martins' first questions. On the question of asbestos, the Ministry of the Environment has the lifting of buildings and is coordinating with each of the ministries. Then I will ask the Minister of the Environment, who is present here, to reply in particular to the honourable Member on the timetable, since time does not allow me to develop the subject anymore. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u133	Finally, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has been asked questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u134	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, given the fundamental role played by municipal veterinary doctors in the areas of supervision and protection of public health and animal health and animal welfare, in particular its role as the veterinary health authority Concelhia, the power conferred on it by the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Food and Veterinary Medicinal Products ( DGAV), which is fundamental to the application of national legislation relating to, inter alia, the welfare of pet animals, livestock of livestock, livestock of livestock interest and the management of animal collection centres, and given that the VAV does not give it the possession of a veterinary doctor by municipal veterinarian since 2008, preventing the authorities from hiring medical veterinarians in municipal veterinary veterinary veterinary legislation relating to, inter alia, the welfare of pet animals, pet animals of livestock, animal welfare and the management of animal collection centres, and since the VAV does not give it the possession of a municipal veterinarian since 2008, preventing doctors from hiring medical veterinary veterinary veterinary doctors in municipal veterinarian doctors or forcing them to fully bear the remuneration of the professionals in their employment, who perform their duties, who perform their duties as regards the duties as regards the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the staff concerned, and their staff concerned, and the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the staff concerned, and the staff of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the staff of the staff concerned, and of the staff acting as they, and their staff of the health of the health of the health of the health of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the [[Congrats from PS MP Rosa Maria Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u135	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u136	Mr President, Mr André Silva, as you know, the State budget has created new conditions to restore the autonomy of local authority in the management of its own resources and, in particular, in the area of staff recruitment. It is a sensitive subject, which, by my previous functions, I know. Veterinary doctors have different types of training and different types of valences. It was also crucial to identify this problem in the report that Mrs. Bastonária of the Order of Veterinary Physicians did in the evaluation of the then canil/ catil of the City Hall of Lisbon and that allowed it to be converted to the House of Animals of Lisbon. There is a key question that needs to be understood: to know what is the function to be performed by each veterinarian to understand what is the training that each veterinarian should have. In other words, if training is to be clinical for the care of animals or if training is to be phytosanitary for the development of plant health monitoring functions. There are two different formations, two different profiles and there is no need for a veterinarian to ensure both functions. As regards legal obstacles to contracts by local authorities, what I say to you is that the State budget has created new conditions and therefore there is new conditions for municipalities to manage their priorities in terms of hiring staff, so we must respect the autonomy of local authority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u137	Mr André Silva, he still has 10 seconds, although the Prime Minister no longer has time to answer. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u138	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to remind you that with regard to municipal veterinary doctors, i.e. the Veterinary Authority of Concelhia, the appointment of DGAV is not an exclusive competence of the authorities. As regards existing databases for the identification of animals, SIRA ( System of Identification and Animal Recovery ) and SICAFE ( System of Identification and Registration of Dogs and Felinos ) have problems because there is no cross-information between these two databases and they often do not allow the identification of an animal or its responsible, which makes the application of the law of criminalization of ill-treatment to animals not consistent. These failures have also prevented the State from becoming aware of the actual number of pet animals in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u139	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u140	Mr. President, I'll be done. There are already negotiations between the National Union of Veterinary Physicians and DGAV, in order to reach a consensus on how to unite databases and thus provide a better quality and efficiency public service. This situation has been suspended for years, so we ask Mr Prime Minister when the actual resolution of this situation is expected.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u141	Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to answer, so he will respond on another occasion or by other means. We have reached the end of the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister. I thank the Government for its presence here in the Hemicycle. The next item is draft resolution No 246 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves reasoned opinion on the violation of the principle of subsidiarity by the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments between Member States and third countries in the field of energy and repealing Decision No 994/2012 / EU(European Affairs Committee). This diploma will be voted on during the legislative voting period, in which we will now enter. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 207 presences, to which the honourable Members add. Deputies António Filipe ( PCP ), Diogo León ( PS ), Assumption Cristas ( CDS-PP ) and Luís Monteiro ( BE ), performing 211 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Mrs. As and Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting No 62 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Despite the death of the actor and dramatist Francisco Nicholson ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ). I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Idália Serran, to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last April 12, Francisco António de Vasconcelos Nicholson, best known as Francisco Nicholson, great actor, television writer, dramatist and Portuguese stagewriter. Born on June 26, 1938, in the bosom of a family connected to the arts, Francisco Nicholson began very young, only 14 years old, to make theatre at the old Camões High School, under the direction of the stager and poet Antonio Manuel Couto Viana, at which invitation he came to belong to the Group of Portuguese Youth. After studying in Paris, where he attended the Charles Dullin Academy of the Popular National Theatre next to the great names of the French theatre, such as Jean Vilar, Georges Wilson, Gerard Philipe, Francisco Nicholson, professionally debuted as an actor and author, with the mysterious childhood play until No, at the Ghirfalto Theatre. It was part of the lists of the National Theatre Company and the Lisbon Studio where it represented large texts of the world dramatography, by authors such as Strindberg, Kleist, Bernard Shaw, Arnold Wesker, Davis Storey, Apollonaire, and others. At the invitation of Raul Solnado, he was present at the opening of the Villaret Theatre, integrating the cast of the play The Inspector General of Nicolau Gogol. It was at the ABC Theatre that Francisco Nicholson became popular with the magazine theater. Having debuted with The gesture is everything next to Eugénio Salvador, Camilo de Oliveira, Brazilian Berta Loran and a large cast, it was with New People in Bikini who claimed himself as author, actor and magazine stager. After 25 April 1974, together with other great names of the national theatre helped to establish the Teatro Adoque, in the area of Martim Moniz, in Lisbon. on television, he met the Riso and Ritmo ( 1964 ) programme, having been the author of several novels, notably Vila Faia, the first Portuguese telenovela, and several series such as Origins ( 1983 ), Cinzas ( 1992 ), Los Lobos ( 1998 ), Adjustment of Accounts ( 2000 ), Gananza( 2001 ), O Olhar da Serpente ( 2002 ), among others. Author of some dozens of shows, almost always staged and directed by himself, Francisco Nicholson was also one of the authors of the song Prayer with which António Calvário won the first Grand Prix TV of the Song. in the cinema, he signed the screenplays of the films Operation dynamite ( 1967 ) and Bonanza & C.a (1969 ) by Pedro Martins. In addition to his vast career linked to theatre, television, music and cinema, Francisco Nicholson also collaborated in the supplement The Moscow Diário de Lisboa, where he crossed Sttau-Monteiro, in The Ball, Popular Diário, Capital, Newspaper and North Sport. In 2014 he wrote his first novel, The dead don't give autographs, which he dedicated to the woman, the actress and dancer Magda Cardoso. Francisco Nicholson was distinguished with the gold medal of cultural merit awarded by the City Hall of Lisbon and was also awarded by the Oeiras Authority. Man of countless talents, but also endowed with a remarkable human sensitivity and dimension, Francisco Nicholson liked to quote António Machado, a Spanish poet saying that the way is going. Portugal is poorer with the disappearance of Francisco Nicholson, indisputably a large part of Portuguese culture. The Assembly of the Republic pays a deserved tribute to its memory and gives its family a sense of regret. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u143	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members will turn to vote No 63 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Congratulating on the victory achieved by the athlete João Oliveira, on 9 April, in the Italian Ultramaratone Milano-Sanremo ( PSD, PS, PCP and BE ). I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the vote, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, vote is as follows: « The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the victory achieved by the Flavored athlete João Oliveira, last April 9, for the second consecutive year, in the Italian ultramaratone, Milan-Sanremo, recognizing and exalting the achieved result, a cause of pride for all Portuguese. João Oliveira led a large part of the third edition of the Italian 285 km test, revalidating the title and sanctifying himself, beating again the record of the test. In 2015, the natural ultramaratonist of Chaves, finished the test in 30 hours and 14 minutes. This year, the route ended at 29 hours and 8 minutes, having been the only athlete to reach the goal in less than 30 hours. This fact demonstrates once again the quality and sporting merit of João Oliveira. In 2009, the Portuguese athlete won the 101 km ultramaratone in Spain and in 2013 won the UltraRevezamento Marília-S. Paulo, 112 km in Brazil, and SPARTATHLON 246 km from Athens to Sparta, Greece. In 2014 he won the 300km Transomania in the Oman Desert and the 144km Ultra Tejo Roads in Portugal. In 2015, João Oliveira was a record player of the Italian Ultramaratona Milano-Sanremo, of the 24-hour trial on track and PT 281Km +, still bleeding from the Ultra Caminos do Tejo, in Portugal. The victories of the Flavian athlete show that with much work, courage, determination, resilience, perseverance and dedication you can overcome obstacles and difficulties and take the path that leads to success, success and recognition, and are also an example and encouragement for our young people. The Assembly of the Republic is thus associated with the feeling of national recognition for this victory, already expressed by H.E. Mr. President of the Portuguese Republic in a message addressed to the athlete, greeting the Flavian João Oliveira by the excellent demonstration of its sporting value and by the way he dignified Portugal and its sport, contributing to the international projection of the city of Chaves, of the region and of the country, and to the notoriety of this sport mode, and writing more a brilliant page of the merit history of national sport. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u145	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 243 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Advance travel of the President of the Republic to Mozambique ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 211/ XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by maintaining the management of the hospitals of Anadia, Serpa and Fafe by their respective Mercy ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote in general on Bill No 81 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Reversion of José Luciano de Castro Hospital in Anadia to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we proceed to the general vote on Bill No 82 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Reversion of the Hospital of S. José de Fafe, in Fafe, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 84 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reversion of Hospital de S. Paulo, in Serpa, for the Ministry of Health ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 239 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government of Public Management of José Luciano de Castro Hospital in Anadia ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 240 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government public management of the hospital in Fafe ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 241 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government public management of the Serpa hospital ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u146	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u147	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u148	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Socialist Party's board will present to the Bureau a statement of vote on draft resolutions Nos 211, 239, 240 and 241 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and of the projects of lein 81, 82 and 84 / XIII ( 1. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u149	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 201 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends strengthening measures to combat diabetes ( PS ). The CFP calls for the joint vote on points 2 and 10 after point 7 and at the end of points 1, 3 to 6 and 8 and 9. I hope everyone is aware of this partition. We shall therefore vote on points 2 and 10 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and abstained from BE, the CFP and the Greens were adopted.]] Let us now vote on point 7. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote on points 1, 3 to 6 and 8 and 9. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 197 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide continuous insulin infusion ( SPCI ) therapy to all children with diabetes up to 10 years of age ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 232 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthening public responses in the area of diabetes ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 238 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to prevent and combat diabetes and intermediate hyperglycaemia (NAP). Mrs. Members, the CFP calls for a separate vote on point 4. We shall therefore vote on point 4 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on points 1 to 3 of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 180 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government vote against renewing the use of carcinogen glyphosate in the EU and the implementation in the country of this prohibition of use ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 195 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government oppose the renewal of authorisation for the use of glyphosate in the European Union and prohibit its use in Portugal ( PAN ). Mrs. Members, the CDS-PP calls for a separate vote on point 3. Let us then begin by voting on point 3 of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on points 1 and 2. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 242 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends prohibition on the use of glyphosate ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 113 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government legislate to allow the Portuguese Environment Association to share tasks with SEPNA in the context of environmental crimes, in particular by training and certifying its agents so that they can collect evidence that has a legal framework ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u150	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u151	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u152	Mr President, it is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the CFP will issue to the Bureau a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-15.u153	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 246 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves Fundamental Opinion on the violation of the principle of subsidiarity by the Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments between Member States and third countries in the field of energy and repealing Decision No 994 / 2012 / EU(Commission on European Affairs). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 189 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal of Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April imposing a widespread loss of hospital valences as well as Order No 13 427 / 2015 of 20 November ending 11 emergency services ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 203 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals Office No 13 427 / 2015 of 20 November, and proceeds to strengthen the human and material resources of the emergency service network ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we now vote on draft resolution No 204 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the principles for hospital reorganization and repeal of Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April ( CFP ) be defined. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday 20 April at 3 p.m. with the following agenda item 1 : political statements and a government statement under Article 78 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on justice at the service of competitiveness. I wish everyone an excellent weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 17 minutes.]]
