ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we start the agenda, I'll give the floor to Mr. Secretary to take care of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following initiatives have been admitted: proposals by lein. 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2016, which goes down to 5. the Commission, 12 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016, which falls to 5. the Commission and all others in complementarity, and 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2016 - 2019, which falls to 5. the Commission ; drafts of lein. 125 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extend the Arsenal do Alfeite, SA, and determine the reintegration of the Arsenal do Alfeite into the Marine Organic ( CFP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 126 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs a transitional system for the exemption of propines in public higher education ( CFP ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 127 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Freezing of the value of the public higher education tip ( CFP ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 128 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines as the sole consequence of the failure to comply with the payment of the tip the non-recognition of the academic act ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 129 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 5 / 2011 of 2 March approving the Law of Portuguese Honorary Orders, integrating the Order of Trucks under the National Orders ( PS ) ; and draft resolutions No 142 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the Peruvian secondary school in the parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ( PSD ), 144 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of the removal and treatment of hazardous waste in the scraps of the ancient mines of São Pedro da Cova ( BE ), 145 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government exempt the payment of social security contributions for raw cow's milk producers and pig meat producers ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 146 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — It proposes the creation of a new transitional regime for the completion of the degree of doctorate and effective hiring with public bond of public higher education teachers ( CFP ), 147 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Need for urgent construction of a secondary school in Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra ( Os Verdes), 148 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government deepen institutional and operational cooperation between the Trucks — Institute for Cooperation and Language and the entities responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the Portuguese Language Museum with a view to restoring the Museum and restoring the technological acquis ( CDS-PP ), 149 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prioritize the construction of the school of Quinta do Peru in the municipality of Sesimbra ( PS ), 150 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure fairness in the application of transitional schemes for the statutes of public higher education education ( PS ), 151 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Definitive resolution of the environmental problem resulting from the deposition of hazardous waste in São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar ( Os Verdes) and 152 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around the requalification and valuation of Ria Formosa ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u3	Mrs. Members, let us then enter the agenda, the first item of which is to review the Decrees of the Assembly of the Republic Nos 6 / XIII — Repeal of Laws Nos 134 / 2015 of 7 September on the payment of moderate fees at voluntary interruption of pregnancy, and 136 / 2015 of 7 September ( First Amendment to Law Nos 16 / 2007 of 17 April on the exclusion of lawlessness in cases of voluntary termination of pregnancy), and 7 / XIII — Elimination of discrimination in access to adoption, civil assistance and other family legal relations, by the second amendment to Law Nos 7 / 2001 of 11 May, the first amendment to Law Nos 9 / 2010 of 31 May, the fifth amendment to the Code of the Civil Registry, approved by Decree-Law No 131 / 95 of 6 June, and the first amendment to Decree-Law Nos 121 / 2010 of 27 October 2010. It was agreed at the Conference of Leaders this morning that, for this first point, each parliamentary group would have five minutes, with the exception of the Member of the NAP, which would have only two minutes. The time given may be used in one or two speeches, as the parliamentary groups and the honourable Member so wish. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members for the fact that the votes of these diplomas take place at the end of the debate and for the vote to be confirmed require an absolute majority of Members in effective office in accordance with Article 136 ( 2 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. I also recall that the votes will be held by means of the electronic vote in accordance with Article 94 ( 4 ). the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore ask the respective branches of the board not to forget that we will soon have these votes by means of an electronic vote. We shall then enter the debate and, for an intervention, have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us discuss the vetoes of the President of the Republic. They are political vetoes, we know, but they are, above all, words filled with prejudice and conservatism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u6	Bitter words that only want to uphold the rights of men, women and children to an ideological vision of the past. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] The veto of the President of the Republic on the proposed amendments to the rules of voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG) and the possibility of adoption by couples of the same sex is no more than an act of petty reprisalism unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u8	The basis for vetoes is unjustified and cannot hide the personal motivation and understanding that the President of the Republic has on these matters. The President of the Republic argues that the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic, in respect of IVG, reduces the information rights of women, which was carried out without due public debate, which eliminates the obligation to monitor women and even prohibits conscientious professionals from participating in counseling consultations. The rights of pregnant women to information are already provided for in Article 142. the Penal Code as well as Article 2. the Law No 16 / 2007, which regulates IVG in Portugal. The auscultation of diverse entities with relevance in this area has been done in the competent bodies for decades, as well as the extensive and in-depth debate has taken place not only here, but also in civil society. Whoever pretends to be distracted is the President. The follow-up of the woman using the IVG must be available, yes, sir, and it is the obligation of the State to promote it and provide it, but it can never be compulsory. Repeat : can never be mandatory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u10	...because obliging someone to a medical act that does not want is a gross violation of his right to self-determination. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u11	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u12	It is an attack on the right to free choice and an unacceptable minority of women,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u14	... as it is to force any woman in a situation like this to follow up consultations by conscientious objectors, by professionals who refuse to perform and condemn this practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u15	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u16	Women do not have to be conditioned in their decision. They need informed and free support, not doctrine or censorship! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u17	As regards the veto on the possibility of adoption by couples of the same sex, there are no doubts, if any, about how Mr President puts his own prejudices in the face of fundamental rights. For only prejudice and complete ignorance of reality can explain that thousands of children are denied the right to a family, to their family!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u19	Only the lack of arguments can explain the boldness to use the concept of the child's best interest as a weapon to precisely deny the child the right to his mother or his father, that which sets, yes, his superior interest. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u20	In fact, it is in the message itself accompanying the veto the answer to the concerns about the alleged attack on the rights and the best interest of the child who has or has two parents or two mothers, and I quote: « (...) the law in force determines that a rigorous control process is observed in relation to requests for adoption(...) ». For it rests the rest of the concerned souls that the rigorous process of evaluation and control of applications for adoption will apply-CL to couples of the same sex, as it applies to couples of different sex. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u22	As to the concern that the proposed solutions have not yet been demonstrated to the extent to which they promote the child's well-being and are oriented according to their interest, we can only once again respond to the numerous studies that have shown, over the decades, systematically and consistently, that there are no differences between homosexual and heterosexual parents, nor with respect to parental competences, nor with respect to the various parameters of development and well-being of children. And finally, we can also respond with reality. We can invite the President of the Republic and all who have this kind of reservations about this situation to know the reality of institutionalized children and above all to hear them. Just go through the hundreds of childcare institutions that exist in our country to often still at the door floor, we are faced with the same question, but the children do not ask if we are married, with whom we are married...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u23	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u24	I will now finish, Mr President. Children do not ask if we are married, who we are married to, what is our religion, our political ideology or our football club. The children simply ask: “Do you want to be my mother? "Do you want to be my father?" Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]] With the vote that we are voting today, there is no longer any explicit discrimination by sexual orientation in Portuguese legislation. It is a historic moment by which the Left Block has always fought. We will be a more human rights-respecting country and therefore a more decent country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are once again called to restore democracy and rescue rights. We respond with the dignity and respect that women, men and children in our country deserve. [[Congratulations from the BE, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u25	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The President who has promulgated more diplomas in the last decade, in relation to women's rights and the rights of personsLGBT (Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transvestites, transsexuals and transgenders), even though opposed to equality, a quasi-archo-iris President, when approval of marriage between couples of the same sex, promulgated with the following grounds: « Known as the positions expressed during the debate of the diploma in the Assembly of the Republic, all indicates that the political forces that approved him would approve it again. in these circumstances, the President of the Republic would be obliged to promulgate it within eight days. I therefore believe that I should not contribute to the needlessly dragging this debate, which would accentuate the divisions between the Portuguese(...) ». Now, as Pilates, he repeals the doctrine and vetoes a diploma that he promulgated in 2007. He opts for uselessness, especially for his own uselessness. He refers to a truth of La Palice : « It is good for the woman to be informed». Last-minute news: it's always been! What was revoked was the annulment of the autonomy of the woman in the period of reflection — repetition, reflection — which would become a period of doctrine and bareback. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u27	The vindictive horror of the referendum question — free choice, free of women — is put to an end, which, of such a fearfully unconstitutional situation, such as compulsive family planning consultations, electronic bracelet type, did not lead the President to the embarrassment of preventive supervision. At this time, institutionalism bleeds. Constitutional jurisprudence is invoked in clear deviation from what is a political veto, as taught in 1. the year of college, but according to it, all cautions already existed peacefully until the right parliament changed them to 25. the time against all, all opinions of the hearing entities on the matter. The basis of the biased veto lies in saying that there is already information and support of the woman in pre-IVG mandatory consultation, that the Constitutional Court has never validated, nor could it be, any compulsive follow-up during reflection, which is absurdly strange - if there is no auscultation of entities in return to normality, when a pacified law had its highly substantiated debate in 2007, monitored since then with extraordinary results at all levels. What does the President want? Oh, my God! Debating and listening to the debate in July? Oh, my God! To hear again from everyone that the revoked regime is absurd? Oh, my God! To recall again the notice of the Order of Physicians, according to which involving conscientious objects violates its Statute? Oh, my God! We agree with the President on one point: this is, I quote, an area of great political, ethical and social sensitivity(...), so even an insensitive, unethical and unethical degree of reality has been revoked. We are here to confirm the return of dignity to women. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u28	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to thank the possibility and time given to the NAP for this intervention. These causes — the causes of human rights, women's rights, the rights of LGBT people, the end of discrimination in all its spectrum — are structural causes for us and I would say that the less silences there are on these matters, the more voices we raise for equality, the more we contribute to our democracy. I have already said this and I say again that when we talk about rights and discrimination, all the deadlines for political and parliamentary decisions seem to be eternity. It's really an eternity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u31	More than two months passed between the day when we generally passed the bills of the PAN, the Left Block, the PS and the Greens, and the day when the President of the Republic announced an incomprehensible veto to a decree sent by this House, precisely in order to eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil sponsorship and other family legal relations. Too much time in all aspects. Despite this incomprehensible veto, I must stress that our position is still this: in Portugal, there is a clear and obvious discrimination in relation to kinship and time is urgent for these families, time is urgent for these children. We must therefore discuss, reconsider and vote on this Decree, aware that discrimination actually lives at the speed of light. To all people — parents, mothers, grandparents, uncles, aunts, future parents and future mothers, future brothers and sisters — who have followed this process, which lasts for years and years, some of them present, once again, in the galleries of the Hemicycle, I want to thank the resilience, the struggle, the courage. I insist that we here eagerly continue to trust the rainbows and to grow vigorously in the decision-making process that we make here. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u32	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, one word to say that the messages accompanying the vetoes of Mr President of the Republic are simple, clear and objective. in the first place, Mr President of the Republic invokes the fact that both the de facto union regime and the marriage of persons of the same sex exclude the possibility of adoption by couples of the same sex. I remember the discussion that was made in this House and that the reason invoked and accepted was that it was necessary to take into account the best interests of the child, and at the time it was not yet right whether adoption protected, or not, the best interests of the child. Therefore, this variant of adoption by same-sex couples was not adopted. I wonder if there is any doubt as to whether, in these situations concerning adoption, the best interests of the child should be taken into account or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u34	You must, you must!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u35	I believe that no one will have, even those who hold their shoulders and say that they have no doubt about the importance of the child's best interests. Now, this diploma, which has been vetoed, with regard to the adoption by couples of the same sex, begins in Article 1. the, by the assumption that there is discrimination between couples of different sex and couples of the same sex with regard to adoption, is Article 1. the subject of the diploma. In other words, what is at issue here is not the best interest of the child but, rather, an alleged discrimination between heterosexual couples and homosexual couples.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u36	It's already in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u37	This is the first point of Mr President's argument. In addition, in the previous legislation, co-adoption was discussed and, in this context, in the Commission, about two dozen hearings were held to associations and personalities. in this Parliament, there are diplomas concerning adoption, that is, with a much greater scope than co-ordination and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there has not been any hearing or hearing of experts on this matter, and that is what the President of the Republic says again. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u38	The need to deepen this discussion, the need to go further in what has been done with regard to co-ordination has been well done, in what needs to be done with regard to adoption still needs further discussion. This is a second opinion or suggestion from the President of the Republic. with regard to the second diploma, we have that the promulgation of Law No. 16/2007 occurred in the assumption that the exclusion of lawlessness in the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. And the Constitutional Court itself, in its judgments Nos. 288 / 98 and 617 / 2006, reinforces the idea of the need for information to pregnant women and cites concrete examples, in particular in Germany and Spain, of the existence of such information. It happens that with the repeal of Law No 133 / 2015, this information must be passed on to pregnant women is frustrated. This is one more of the information that Mr. President of the Republic gives us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u39	The opinion is from him!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u40	basically, what Mr. President of the Republic meant with these two vetoes and these messages was that, firstly, it is and was consistent with previous legislative options, vetoes and messages its previous, secondly, took into account the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u41	No, you didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u42	... and, thirdly, that is the opinion that there should be more debate and more information. Well, very well! Now, what's wrong is the argumentation that is used, and we, yesterday, heard argument like: « Return him to the Assembly of the Republic, knowing he will be defeated! , a sentence; « The veto, in this case, has served nothing! », another quote. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I wonder if, in democracy, this is the way to discuss different opinions;... [[PSD applause.]] ... if, in democracy, citizen Aníbal Cavaco Silva has no right to his opinion; if, in democracy, President Aníbal Cavaco Silva has no right to his opinion. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u43	He had that opinion! The opinion is from him!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u44	This is because, listening to VV arguments. For example, the idea that you are left with is that there are only convictions on your side, there are no convictions anywhere else. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u45	You remain with your convictions that we have with our convictions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u46	It was his position, it wasn't ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u47	In conclusion, Mr President, I would say that this type of language and argument is no longer a regrettable adjustment of accounts with a President at the end of his term of office. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u48	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even at the end of his term of office, the President of the Cavaco Silva confirms the nature of the options he has made over the last 10 years. Safeguarding the interests and rights of the Portuguese people has never been a priority for the President of the Republic. Therefore, the vetoes of the President of the Republic to the decrees of this House, concerning the adoption by couples of the same sex and the replacement of the legal framework of voluntary termination of pregnancy, in addition to translating the disregard for the rights of children, women's rights and sexual and reproductive rights, still reveal a deep revenge. Revanchism by a President of the Republic who has never, for example, complied with the decriminalization of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy at the request of the woman until 10 weeks. The vetoes of the President of the Republic, which we are going to overcome today in the Assembly of the Republic, have this deeply negative political mark, from the political and ideological perspective of the President of the Republic in his content, but also in the sense of opportunity for his disclosure — exactly on the day following the presidential elections. The President of the Republic has the right to his opinion and we have the right to disagree with him. [[PCP, BE, Os Verdes and PS MP Palmira Maciel applauded.]] The decision of the President of the Cavaco Silva does not deal with the need to improve decrees but, rather, with its political and ideological perspective, restrictive in terms of rights, revealing well the views behind these issues, seeking to impose social and political setbacks that we reject altogether. Mr. President and Mr. Members, in the veto decision of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic enabling couples of the same sex to adopt, the President of the Republic claims the need to safeguard the best interests of the child. The best interests of the child necessarily go through the right that children have to grow up in a family that protects, cares and loves them, above all. It also goes through respect for its own identity, the right to difference and social dignity, the right to be desired, to its physical integrity, to adequate food, clothing, housing, health, safety, education and education. What has yet to be demonstrated, but by the President of the Republic, is where these assumptions have not been taken into account. Mr Fernando Negrão's arguments are not taken. The requirements for adoption by couples of persons of the same sex are exactly the same as those of other couples or women and single men who advance to an adoption process,... [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]] ... and all these requirements reflect the concern with the best interests of the child. In our view, the best interests of the child should indeed prevail and this is duly considered in the law passed by this Assembly of the Republic, which today must be confirmed. in the veto relating to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic which repossesssses the legal framework of the IVG ( changed at a hurry by PSD and CDS, at the end of the previous Parliament, however, seeking to escape the public debate, so that it may pass unnoticed ), the President of the Republic once again resorts to false arguments to substantiate his position. The replacement of the IVG legal framework, contrary to what the President of the Republic says, does not reduce information to pregnant women, allows, first of all, to eliminate the mechanisms for conditioning the free decision of women. This is clearly not to be allowed: that women, in full of their rights, holders of information, can make their decisions freely. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]] We ask: what access to information for free and conscious decision-making can a woman obtain in a consultation with a conscientious objector doctor, as provided for in the rule revoked in good time by this Assembly of the Republic? Or what is the justification for the obligatory psychological and social support of a pregnant woman, other than the attempt to coerce and condition her decision? The State must ensure information, it must ensure the existence of psychological and social support, but it cannot force women to have consultations and support which they do not want.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u51	The CFP remembers and does not forget the struggle of thousands of women in defense of sexual and reproductive rights and the right to free choice, as well as the fact that many and many women have been victims of the social scourge that was clandestine abortion, subjecting themselves to outrageous and humiliating conditions and that in some cases cost their own life. On the decriminalization of the IVG, there was a pronouncement of the people through referendum, which cannot be ignored and must be respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the PCP, we will confirm the decrees on the adoption by couples of the same sex and the replacement of the legal framework of the IVG, in the defence of children's rights to happiness, protection and proper development, of women's rights and of sexual and reproductive rights. [[PCP, PS, BE, Greens and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u54	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. President of the Republic vetoed the two diplomas on the payment of moderate fees on voluntary interruption of pregnancy and the elimination of discrimination on access to adoption, civil sponsorship and other family legal relations which, at the initiative of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, were discussed in this House less than three months ago. Let's say what we said today. But let's go somewhere. First, we are going to what is absurd, to the question of moderate rates. We have reaffirmed and underlined, then, as today, that no change to the current regime of voluntary termination of pregnancy is involved. What is at stake here is whether, according to the principle of equality, acts considered by law as medical acts should or should not have different treatment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u56	Let us be clear: the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, BE and PCP have just delivered a State budget that maintains, repeats, maintains, acts and tests subject to moderate rates, such as cardiorespiratory resuscitation, mammography, magnetic resonance imaging of the skull, the application of orthopedic devices or gypsum devices, provided that it is not, we already know, within primary health care. [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u57	Therefore, the question arises: in IVG no moderate rate is paid for why? Now, the payment of moderate fees is an ideological thing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from PS Deputy Elza Pais.]] It is good to remember that what is just at issue here, and nothing more, is whether we should or not — and knowing that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese, more than 6 million, is free of moderate rates, especially because of economic deficiency — exempting this moderate medical act. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] It is not intellectually serious — it is even false — the argument of the "persecution" of the most deprived women, which, as you know, would always be exempt in these cases. I repeat, what we are debating is simply the following: acts considered as medical acts by law must, under the same circumstances — in the same circumstances — have equal or differentiated treatment? Now, we are defending today, as before, that they should have the same treatment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u58	So why didn't you just do it on the fees? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u59	Where's the prejudice, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Prejudice is on this side, and not on this side, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let's go, now, to what we admit to being controversial.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u60	Controversy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u61	We in the CDS do not have the arrogance to fall into the easy prejudice that, who doesn't agree with us, is intolerant, and so little that, on the one hand, are the enlightened and progressives and, on the other, the fascist and ignorant. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u62	It was just to hear you in July, with most!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u63	Such an attitude not only reveals much about who has it, as results from an absolute lack of arguments. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u64	No one here ignores the society in which we live or do not know the different realities that exist and, much less, judges the different worlds that each one legitimately has.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u65	October 4 has changed a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u66	It is not that which is called into question, and none of it must be called into question. What's in issue here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only the recognition that adoption is not a right against one another, it is not a right for and for adults but rather a right for children and children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u67	The doctrine of the CDS in this matter is absolutely clear. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] First of all, the right to be adopted is a right of the child, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The right to adopt is an important and relevant right, but always, always, subordinate to the best interests of the child. Secondly, and contrary to the arrogance of the certainties of some, the humility of our uncertainties leads us, in doubt, to make the right of children prevail, to the detriment of any other right or any other legitimate expectation. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u68	Thirdly, and lastly, we do not ignore the problems of the adoption institute, but we do not forget the progress of recent years, such as the significant reduction of deadlines for the evaluation of candidates and decision by social security. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The doubts persist and remain. By remaining doubts, we do not hesitate on the side where we are: on the side of the child's best interest. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u69	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u70	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, as soon as the Greens have known the veto by Mr. President of the Republic on the diplomas of voluntary interruption of pregnancy and adoption by couples of the same sex, the first reaction they had was to say: « We will contribute to the confirmation in the Assembly of the diplomas now vetoed by Mr President of the Republic ». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Republic, with regard to the degree of adoption by same-sex couples, that the matter was not sufficiently debated. You know what I think, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Mr President of the Republic, Prof. Cavaco Silva, or 100 years from now, I would not think that this diploma or this matter would be discussed! Who doesn't want to see, doesn't see! I believe that the debate that has taken place in recent years in the Assembly of the Republic and outside the Assembly of the Republic has been extremely enlightening and has led even to a differentiated position now in this Parliament, here in the Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and with this I also reply to the Member of the CDS — The Greens have a first objective in this regard: the best interest of the child, as we have repeatedly stated and reaffirmed in the debates that took place here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]] Therefore, Mrs. CDS Member, Mrs and Mrs. Members, there are institutions that will be responsible for the best interests of the child when they decide on adoption. And you know what? There are certain heterosexual couples who will not be careful, nor will they fulfill, nor will they ensure the best interests of the child, and therefore they will not adopt! [[Applause from The Greens and the PS.]] And there are certain homosexual couples, such as heterosexuals, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they will ensure the best interests of the child and all that a child needs to develop, and will therefore adopt! Whatever it takes for the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you will adopt! [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]] Then, with regard to the diploma on voluntary termination of pregnancy, this is still being charged. The Member of the CDS has spent all her intervention on moderate rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u71	He's got a name! He's got a name and he's going to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u72	Now, we are here to confirm the diplomas vetoed by Mr President of the Republic. And it does not stop being curious that this was no argument used in the veto of Mr. President of the Republic! [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]] That must concern you, Mrs Deputy, you must be concerned. For then, I will remind you that what Mr. President of the Republic has called for, summarizing and truly interpreting what Mr. President of the Republic meant, is that there are no longer any ways in the law to condition women to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. The forms of conditioning are gone, Madam Member — this is the concern of the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u73	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u74	And so he says that there is no information, there is no follow-up, that conscientious objectors no longer count, that compulsory family planning consultations no longer exist. You know as much as we know that information and monitoring exist and are covered by the law. Now, this absolutely despicable issue of conditionalating women's rights is in fact not like the President of the Republic would like it to be. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us get to the point: Mr President of the Republic knew that the diplomas would be confirmed, as they are now, by the Assembly of the Republic. So he tried to delay the process. But, moreover, he may have sought an adjustment of accounts in relation to the approval of the diplomas here in the Assembly of the Republic. But what The Greens have to say is this: this is negative. One could say: "It's okay, for a few more days, for a few more weeks, the diploma will be confirmed! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That's right! But every day that a form of women's conditioning is established, that any Portuguese citizen is discriminated against and that the best interests of children are deferred, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! It's wrong! And that is the absolutely negative issue of the vetoes of the President of the Republic. But, and with this, I conclude, Mr President, the Greens consider that "the spell against the sorcerer has been seen here", because the confirmation by the Assembly of diplomas of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy and adoption by couples of the same sex is giving more strength to all the rules envisaged in them. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u75	For a second speech, on behalf of the PS bench, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are closing a path. We've closed a course that took too long. With regard to one of the vetoed diplomas, in fact, we had to take a little step back in a course that we had already closed down, demonstrating that there are no debates on fundamental rights which, fortunately, can be finally arranged. But right there, today, we close a page again, we take a step forward, where we had previously retreated. So today is a good day for democracy, it is a good day for democratic clarification, because it allows citizens to realize the difference between who will confirm this veto and who will not confirm this veto. It is a good day because it allows us to demonstrate why we cannot follow the views of the President of the Republic. Firstly, because the parliamentary debate was broad, enlightening, it was based on a scientific debate, an academic debate, a debate in the civil society of the richest that this Parliament has ever seen. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, although it was a debate that settled on the theme of co-ordination, the fundamental theme discussed was that of homogenality, the capacity of same-sex couples may or may not adopt. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] I therefore do not take the argument that Mr Fernando Negrão used recently that the scale is different. The scale doesn't matter. What matters is that in that family, that couple is able to secure a home for that child. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] And that is what all the experts who have participated with us in this debate have said quite clearly. It is true that there is no unanimity, but there is an increasing consensus in Portugal, the United States, Spain, Brazil, with the colleges of the specialty, together with pediatricians, psychiatrists, psychologists, among those who have explained to us why there is no scientific evidence that adoption by couples of the same sex represents any risk to the child and to his best interest. But in a democracy, the majority work to confirm the scientific and academic majority. Today there is a overwhelming majority in the scientific community who tells us this and there is also a majority in this House who tells us precisely this and says that the time we discriminate against based on sexual orientation ends. We don't cross that line anymore because that's also on the table. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] Mr. Fernando Negrão recently said that we had been wrong, because this is a debate about the best interests of the child and the diploma speaks of discrimination. But this is also a debate about discrimination, because the reason why these couples were excluded has to do with the fact that sexual orientation has been the discriminatory factor that has closed them the door to protecting fundamental rights and safeguarding the dignity of their families. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] that is why we confirm this veto, because we maintain the democratic will to eliminate the discrimination that persists in the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u77	You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u78	I will finish, Mr. President. We stand firm in the democratic will to take steps to legally protect all families, without exception, and we stand firm in our desire to deepen fundamental rights in Portugal, overthrowing the last obstacle in this long journey. It is not all done, there are other discriminations, there is a lot of work ahead. But as for this work, which cost this Parliament so much and which cost the families of this country who had to wait for this answer today, at last — I thought you could have said it before — I reiterate what I had said at the time: I apologize for the delay on behalf of the Portuguese Republic, and I hope once again that your patience and dignity will be finally rewarded with this vote. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u79	We have come to the end of the review of these decrees. We shall then proceed to the vote, which will have to be electronic and, at the same time, for the lifts and the seats. We begin with the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 6 / XIII — Repeal of Laws No 134 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 on the payment of moderate rates on voluntary termination of pregnancy and 136 / 2015 of 7 September ( First amendment to Law No 16 / 2007 of 17 April on the exclusion of illegality in cases of voluntary termination of pregnancy ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of confirming this decree. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, I was informed that three BE Members who voted in favour of confirmation of the Decree were not able to vote electronically, like Mr Pedro Alves of the PSD, who voted against. I therefore ask the services to take account of the votes of these Members when presenting the results of the vote in the electronic framework. Ladies and gentlemen. Let us therefore vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Decree of the Assembly of the Republic. 6 / XIII was confirmed by the votes of the absolute majority of deputies in effective office, and 119 votes were recorded in favour ( 81 PS, 19 BE, 15 PCP, 2 Os Verdes, 1 PAN and 1 PSD ) and 97 votes against ( 80 PSD, 16 CDS-PP and 1 PS ). [[Upstairs of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]] The Decree of the Assembly of the Republic 6 / XIII therefore obtained the constitutional majority necessary to consider itself confirmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u80	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u81	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u82	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote, like what I had done in the previous vote of this same Decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u83	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I'm asking the ladies. Members who wish to announce the submission of explanations of vote shall do so at the end of the two votes. Mr Luís Montenegro, I see you ask for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u84	Mr President, it is only to make a note and for the Bureau to record that the 19 Members of the Left Block took part in the electronic vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u85	Mr President, I asked for the results to be considered by the three Members of the Left Block who informed the Bureau that they could not register electronically. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also asks for the floor, but I must tell him that we are in the middle of a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u86	Mr President, between the indication given by the honourable Members and the electronic confirmation there was a resumption of the system and it was therefore possible to vote electronically. For this reason, only 19 votes have been counted and not more than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u87	It follows the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 7 / XIII — eliminates discrimination in access to adoption, civil sponsorship and other family legal relations, by making the second amendment to Law No. 7 / 2001 of 11 May, the first amendment to Law No. 9 / 2010 of 31 May, the twenty-third amendment to the Civil Registry Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 131 / 95 of 6 June and the first amendment to Decree-Law No. 121 / 2010 of 27 October. We shall also vote on the confirmation of this Decree. The Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 7 / XIII was confirmed by the absolute majority of deputies in effective office, with 137 votes recorded in favour ( 81 PS, 19 BE, 15 PCP, 2 Os Verdes, 1 PAN and 19 PSD ), 73 votes against ( 59 PSD and 14 CDS-PP ) and 8 abstentions ( 5 PSD, 1 PS and 2 CDS-PP ). [[Upstairs of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]] The Decree of the Assembly of the Republic 7 / XIII is therefore also confirmed. As you know, the Decrees do not need to be assessed in committee, so the results of the two votes will be sent to the President of the Republic as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u88	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u89	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u90	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote, as I have done in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u91	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u92	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u93	Sir, is that for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u94	Yes, Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u95	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the second item on our agenda, which is a thematic debate on science required by the PS. I take this opportunity to congratulate the members of the Government present. First of all, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u96	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: Allow me, Mr President, to begin by thanking those who have chosen me to speak here and today for the first time. For 25 years I have been closely following the bet that our country has made in promoting science and knowledge for the construction of its future. This bet allowed Portugal, in the short space of a generation, to leave Europe's tail to clearly exceed the average of OECD countries in all indicators: in the quantity and quality of knowledge produced, in the number of new researchers, in the internationalization of scientific institutions, in the dissemination of this knowledge and technological innovation. New critical masses — centres and institutes — have emerged in various fields of knowledge and a credible external evaluation system has been implemented. Viva Science has marked thousands of young people and many of us. The schools of the research institutions were approached and witnessed for the first time a real circulation of brains with some of the most prestigious institutions worldwide. This success story was more than recognized and admired by this outside world. And if several governments, including that of the PSD, can take pride in this success, their main worker was Minister Mariano Gago. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] He evidently counted on the dedication of his closest collaborators, but also of the numerous students, teachers, researchers, technicians and managers who believed that the effort was worth it. And it was this trust, supported by the majority of Portuguese and Portuguese, that allowed us in so little time to double our investment in this area, reaching close to 1 % of GDP, half of which was private. It happens that, during the previous government, science becomes the sole responsibility of a state secretary with a too narrow view of the role of knowledge in society. We saw a significant cut in research support of more than 500 million euros, there was an abrupt decrease of more than 30 % of the number of doctoral and post-doctoral scholarships, research contracts, 40 % of which were foreign, were reduced by more than two thirds, many research centres and institutes saw their funding cut between 30 % and 50 % and a growing bureaucracy suffocated much of the possible research. in the middle of this disaster, while we were looking forward to opening new competitions for research projects, we were informed that funding, supposedly, had even increased slightly. It would be used to promote excellence and innovation, because we needed more science, but "implemented and useful", and less social and human sciences, which did not produce wealth. The main rupture was, however, with the broad social and political commitment achieved in the previous decades, which prompted a strong challenge to science and technology policy for its impact on forced emigration of many of the most qualified who have contributed to the economy of the countries that received them with open arms. Even more serious was the lack of transparency in the evaluation processes of research and development units, research projects and scholarships funded by the Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT ), which largely weakened the confidence of the majority of the scientific community in this institution. Today, the most prestigious academic and business leaders recognize that scientific development only flourishes where the environment and institutions promote dialogue and where those who can think out of the box and those who look at the same landscape but with different eyes, because they know that applied science and fundamentals feed on each other and that the great discoveries are unpredictable and because they know that the greatest challenges of today, both in the area of health, as in the environment, water, energy, justice and peace, require innovative contributions from all areas of knowledge, with curious and imaginative people in a free society and with robust institutions that promote these capabilities. Mr. Minister, he was one of those who has also bet on knowledge and science from the beginning and who has contributed very closely to the success story that has prestigious us for this world outside. He is therefore aware of the magnitude of the challenges we have inherited and knows that confidence is destroyed in a very short time and that its reconstruction can be slow. It is urgent to regain the credibility of the FCT. The appointment of its new president is a good start, but researchers need transparency, predictability, sustainability and concrete opportunities. The country needs to believe again in the bet, we need political strategies for promoting and disseminating scientific knowledge and culture to strengthen scientific employment, also in companies, and for rejuvenation of the teaching and research body. in this House, Mr. President, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that knowledge is not cheap and is not a luxury, but we are also sure that ignorance is much more expensive. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u97	There are several Members who are registered to ask questions to Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, but for that, the Minister has to make an intervention. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, the Minister has signed up. You therefore have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was certainly a privilege to hear Mr Alexandre Quintanilla make a brief history of Portuguese scientific and technological developments. In fact, the political, social and economic commitment of science is now well-developed in Portuguese culture and society, and we know how we have recovered our chronic scientific delay over the past 30 years. Also in an unprecedented way, we have known in recent years how it is possible to change science policies and effectively break the breach in this commitment to society. Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, let me now respond clearly to the questions you have left me with about the challenges and the process, which I shall first talk about. It is today exactly two months ago that we launched an unprecedented process in Portugal of public debate on the future of the Foundation for Science and Technology as a central structure in the architecture of the national scientific and technological system. This public debate has resulted in a set of particularly broad contributions involving hundreds of researchers and citizens and is now available with several contributions on the government portal. We conclude this process today, this morning, with the takeover of the new direction of the Foundation for Science and Technology, in a process that has certainly been done in order to credibility between researchers and the scientific community and the Foundation itself. It is a long and complex process, but we are sure that the new direction began in the best way. This is how we define a letter of principles for the future of the Foundation for Science and Technology this morning, which I will have the opportunity to formally deliver in this Parliament. in the context of this letter of principles, we define as the first priority for the new direction of the CTF a new framework for evaluation of scientific quality and scientific activity in Portugal, which will be done in the coming weeks. when we define a new concept for evaluation, we clearly expect to resume a new cycle in Portuguese scientific development, in which funding and evaluation will be effectively defined and built in close connection with the ambitions of the scientific community and the ambitions of Portuguese. We are sure that the future is different from the recent past and that the implementation of the 2016 Budget will certainly transmit to Portugal a change in the area of science and technology. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u99	Mr Minister, the Bureau records the inclusion, for requests for clarification, of eight Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, the Minister informed the Bureau that he intends to answer four to four. That being the case, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u100	Mr President, Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, we have heard, over the past four years, an authentic propaganda machine announcing the destruction of the Portuguese scientific system. He accused the left that the former Government had completely destroyed research and higher education in Portugal. Well, a new time has come, an opportunity to make science a priority, particularly through the State budget. So, Minister, explain to this House and to the Portuguese why he finally decided to remove the issue of higher education from this debate. Is it because there is a reduction in the amount of EUR 15 million for higher education and social action? Is that why? I also ask you the following: how does the cut in the FCT budget explain? In fact, with the Socialist Government, there is a cut of almost EUR 1 million in the FCT budget. Are you saying that the previous government has invested too much in science? Is that it? And you're saying that, after all, the whole narrative of destruction is completely false and fallacious? in the Budget, there is a clear return on investment for the FCT. I would add to this point that if the Minister puts into practice the bad habits of previous governments — which, in fact, integrated — and the budgetary implementation is far less than the initial allocation, there are still more worrying reasons. Obviously, in recent years there have been changes to the financing model, these changes praised by international experts. There are, however, undeniable results: Portugal has changed from a net contributor in terms of financing science in the European Union to an effective net beneficiary. This is the truth: Portugal paid for the research and science of the richest countries and, fortunately, in 2014 the former government managed to reverse this direction. Mr Minister and this government cannot say that they make science a priority and at the same time reduce the allocation to the FCT. There's a line that separates the speech from the action. It's time to start putting the money in the same place where you put your words. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u101	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u102	Mr President, Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, the pre-governance of former governance was to be able to put science in Portugal beyond the abyss. The free fall occurred when investment in education and higher education fell to the 2004 values. Since 2002 the stock exchange values have not been updated. Cuts in doctoral and post-doctoral scholarships reached 65 %, which brings us to the realities of 1994, and the FCT was turned into a swamp. The Investigator FCT contest answered 14 % of the applications, which resulted in collective redundancies and the termination of the research lines. We do not know exactly what the experts who applauded these policies, but certainly not the researchers in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u103	The implementation rates of the latest FCT tenders for the financing of research projects were 12 % in 2012 and 13 % in 2014. Precautionary has invaded scientific policy, and there are no experts who can deny these numbers. The FCT became, because of the right-wing policies, a hypothetical investment policy that was, in fact, scarce and a mirage. But the truth is that October 4 brought new opportunities and also brought the possibility of a State Budget with other measures, with a different assessment for the FCT. The question I would like to ask the Minister is this: with this new open window, what policies and what hope can researchers have in Portugal and the FCT? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u104	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u105	Mr President, I would like to begin by welcoming Mr Minister and Mrs Secretary of State, this first time that I address the two, and by noting that higher education, unlike the non-superior, has enjoyed some stability and I would even say some tranquility achieved with the persistent, serious and demanding work of many, such as, moreover, it is mentioned in the PS Government Programme and so far with an open dialogue between protection and higher education institutions. It would be good for everyone and for the country to continue. I am referring to higher education, Minister, because it is strange that this debate has only focused on the subject of science. Not because this matter is not important for itself, but because it is inseparably linked to the higher education system as, moreover, affirms the CRUP itself (Council of Rectors of Portuguese Universities). And I quote: "The centrality of universities in the national scientific system should be clearly, unequivocally and consequently. Do not keep on seeking. ” in fact, this system is based on its universities and will be as much better as the scientific performance of them. Perhaps the surgical delimitation of the subject has to do with yesterday, with the taking over of the new president of the FCT, which also meets, or perhaps has to do with the fact that in the State Budget for 2016, the only dimension in which there is apparent reinforcement of the words is that of science, so it becomes much more interesting to bring this subject and not others to the debate. In any case, Mr Minister, it is to praise your concern at listening to the stakeholders in the sector and the transparency of information, with the publication of the report on contributions to the future of the FCT, contrary to what has happened to your colleague at the Ministry of Education, who has had mere informal conversations, then denied in the press, for matters as sensitive or more sensitive as we have discussed here today. in the field of science, let me start by recalling the starting point of the previous government in times of extreme budgetary pressure. The sustainability of the national science and technology system was not ensured. The financial crisis brought significant stress on the development of a still immature system, thus imposing measures that ensured, on the one hand, its sustainability and which, on the other hand, accelerated the steps of such necessary transfer of knowledge to the productive tissue. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been much work done with regard to the maturation and qualification of the system of science and technology in terms of budgetary pressure, but certainly, as in everything in life, there is more and better to do. The Minister, in his programme and in his budget proposal, presents a set of measures which raise several questions from a minimum point of view of implementation and which would now be put forward. The government wants to stimulate the rejuvenation of the teaching body in higher education and research. It states that public higher education institutions may proceed to contracts irrespective of the type of legal link, and must make use of their own revenue. However, it also states that these contracts are limited by a ceiling related to the maximum wage mass of the last three years, deducted from cuts. Question: What is the effective autonomy for hiring, given the necessary replacement of cuts affecting the salary mass? That is, after the replacement, and taking into account this ceiling, what real margin is there for hiring and rejuvenation? On this same point, concerning the monthly value of the research grants, which has been frozen since 2002, I ask: what do you intend to do in this dimension? The new president of the FCT also reported in a recent interview that, in the past, funding programmes for scientific projects and researchers were only paid by the FCT, adding that universities might perhaps have a share in this co-financing. This measure is provided for in the 2016 Budget, so I ask: in which heading should universities accommodate this amount and with what counterpart? It also refers to the President of the FCT, and we agree, that it is necessary to work hard so that the knowledge generated can be harnessed in economic terms, i.e. to make their connection to companies, trying to eliminate bureaucracy. But how, in particular, is it intended to carry out this task? It is that there are many real risks, that is, there are several innovation projects that are presented and funded through universities, but whose rights of authorship or royalties do not remain in universities, their effective holders, but follow the spin-offs that then occur. However, it happens that these spin-off companies later enter the open market without having to bear the costs of the investment that other companies had to make, thus distorting this concept of economic exploitation. The Government Programme also presents a set of measures to strengthen programmes and instruments to promote scientific and technological culture, including the creation and dynamisation of science clubs in all groups of public and private schools of basic and secondary education. Mr Minister, I do not discuss the intrinsic value of the proposal, but I know that schools are already full of projects and I also know that your Government wants to approve, again, the principle of full-time school. however, I do not see why this type of content cannot be inserted into the curriculum, that this is not enough. Why should your Ministry decide whether these clubs should belong to all schools, including private ones? And what kind of word is this giant hired will be held? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u106	You have the floor to conclude this first group of four requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has been suffering from a structural deficit over successive governments with regard to the financing and functioning of the national scientific and technological system ( SCTN ), a funding responsible for the regression of the country's scientific and technological potential. in fact, and contrary to what the successive governments have tried to believe, the situation has been deteriorating, even worsening by the action of the previous government, the PSD / CDS. The speech on the high number of researchers per 1000 inhabitants in the asset does not entirely correspond to the truth and much less to an effective appreciation of the research career and others, namely that of technical, fundamental to the functioning of the SCTN. Respect for science workers can be measured by the way stockholders have been treated, but it can also be measured by the valorization of career researchers and other workers. Mr Minister, both in state laboratories and in higher education institutions there are still senior technicians who have already obtained the degree of doctor and who await the fulfillment of the promises that the previous Government has made to them. When does the government think it can open an internal competition for the proper provision of these workers, with its entry into the research career? Also by all state laboratories and higher education institutions, combining the limitations on hiring and freezing careers, we have a large number of researchers who should already be either "principal investigator" or "coordinator" but who remain in the first category. Not only does this block help to disbalance the professional pyramid, as is associated with the very significant aging of the research body, with serious damage to the generational flow that is so decisive in the knowledge transition framework of the SCTN. Mr Minister, on these situations, I wonder what measures the Government will take to rejuvenate the research frameworks in Portugal and to unlock career progression. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u108	You have the floor to answer this first group of four requests for clarification, Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the depth of the questions and the opportunity they give me to clarify these questions. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, I don't know where you've been, honestly, or what budget you've read. First of all, let's see exactly what the 2015 execution at the FCT was. contrary to what he said, the initial amount of EUR 468 million budgeted was only executed in 2015 370 million. For many years, the FCT did not have such a low execution. We realize that this is due, above all, to the lack of capacity of the former Government to carry out Community revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u110	Here we go!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u111	But, in any case, for many years, I haven't had the execution of the FCT so low. Nor do I fully understand what Budget has referred to. I know, and we all recognize, that reading budget maps is complex. Do not forget that you have to add extra-budgetary revenue. Indeed, the 2016 FCT Budget, which is for discussion in this House, has for the first time exceeded the EUR 500 million for many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u112	Since 2009!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u113	And if we add the operation to the investment, it reaches EUR 502 million, an increase of 4, 6 % compared to the initial 2015 allocation. however, if we look at what was the execution, the increase is actually 32 %. We can say that, in fact, we are facing a budget for change. It is far from what we liked, but for the first time we will have the possibility to change the continuous and systematic decrease of the last five years. As has already been said today in this House, between 2010 and 2014 official statistical data show a sharp decrease in investment by EUR 530 million, of which EUR 200 million in the public sector. We will ensure that 2016 is the right change to this variation. But, obviously, there is life beyond the Budget — and I thank Mr Luís Monteiro for his speech. It is certainly with pleasure that today we present the letter of principles for the future of the FCT, which illustrates and represents our main guidelines for scientific policy in the near future, in particular through the guidelines given to the FCT. Restoring confidence in the scientific community is, above all, by establishing principles for an open access policy. And today, here, we also present the principles for this same open access policy where, of course, we want to value knowledge as a public good, for the sake of the development of Portuguese society. In addition, we realize that it is critical to extend the social basis of knowledge and, therefore, we also today launch the principles for a new programme to stimulate research and development in political education in association with the development of regions and, therefore, in close connection with economic development and regional innovation initiatives. But the Budget and measures for the future include more: above all, they include autonomy, more autonomy. In fact, replying to Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira's questions from now on, I must say that in a context of increasing budgetary restraint, which is what has been required of us, and despite what is the significant change in budgets in this area of 2006, we ensure a continuous and systematic strategy for the relationship between higher education and science and technology, in particular by opening up contracts in higher education. Since the last four years, for the first time—see clearly in the articulation of the law—we have a flexible articulation which, obviously, within the framework of strict budgetary control, will effectively enable contracts in higher education institutions and, in a certain way, release all the constraints that have been given. I must tell Mrs Ana Bessa that, obviously, the ceiling we put in the Budget is particularly positive. And why? Because during the PSD / CDS governments the abandonment of teachers in higher education was so that 1100 teachers left higher education between 2010 and 2015. So now, by placing the maximum value of the last three years as a ceiling, we certainly have a considerable opening for the contract. But I must say that, more than that, and more than imposing ceilings, this was a negotiation process with the institutions and, in particular, with the council of directors of the Portuguese universities, as well as with the coordinator council of the political institutes. It is this harmony, this dialogue, that replacement of trust in the institutions we are lending. And for us there is no science without higher education nor there is higher education without science. It is indeed this amalgamation in social development and social construction of a more modern and fairer Portugal to which, we believe, science and higher education are effectively linked. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u114	There is a new set of requests for clarification from the Minister. First of all, to this end, Mrs Laura Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, on 29 December last, the board of directors of the Foundation for Science and Technology, delivered a letter of resignation to the Minister. This was the suspension of the launch of all previously planned FCT initiatives. Mr. Minister suspended the programme competitions for advanced training, previously scheduled and announced to the scientific community; the national competition for projects did not open, and I remember that the previous Government started in 2012 the doctoral programs in business environment, and we currently have seven programmes with more than 40 companies and seven universities involved. Currently, only 3 % of doctors are in companies, far from the European average, which is 30 %. Despite this disparity of 3 % in Portugal, compared with 30 % of the European average, the Minister once again suspended medical programmes in the business environment. How, then, does the Minister feel about ensuring competitiveness? How does it intend to ensure sustainability and predictability in the functioning of the institutions? Is it in this way, in a period of great uncertainty in the scientific world, that the Minister guarantees confidence in the technological and scientific system? Mr Minister created a reflection group on the future of the FCT consisting of known scientists, but I ask: what were the criteria for their selection? Why, for example, have not also been considered the research pockets or someone from the previous direction of the FCT? What are you afraid of, Minister? The Minister also indicated that he is seeking a new evaluation of the research units. Minister, don't you believe in research done? What do you want? It is that, Mr Minister, as there have been forward evaluations and back evaluations, cancellation of competitions and new appointments, it becomes difficult to do science in Portugal. And now Mr. Minister also spoke in the implementation of the 2015 budget, but what was the implementation in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u116	To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u117	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, I welcome the changes that have already been announced under the FCT. The FCT is a public entity that aims to continuously promote the advancement of scientific and technological knowledge in Portugal. The FCT and the government therefore have the ability to decide in the investigation if we move forward or if we move forward to the troupes, which, in the international landscape, makes a difference between being hit or mark the rite. The FCT therefore has the ability to decide between excellence and mediocrity, but one thing is certain: excellent results cannot be required only when mediocre working conditions are offered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u119	The issues of the calendar are important and I welcome the amendments that have already been announced on the predictability of the calendars of the invitations to tender so that, in the future, candidates can at least know how many vacancies they are opening for the scholarship they are competing with. But the stability of the calendar serves very little before the instability of an investigator's life. What conditions of excellence has an investigator who, over 10 or 20 years, stumbles in stock exchange? What excellence can a John, a Mary, a Diogo, a Rita who at the age of 25 does not have the right to a holiday allowance, which at the age of 30 postpones the family, because he does not have parental rights, that at the age of 35 he cannot get sick, because he does not have the right to benefit, and that at the age of 45 he is unemployed, he has no right to anything strictly, even though he has worked during the previous 20 years? Oh, my God! From four to four years, from six to six years, these people have to revalidate their lives in order to carry out their work. Let us work, that is what they say! These researchers adapt their lives as they are postponed the possibility of a bond. The passage through the area of research is always temporary and the perpetuation of temporary situations becomes structural precarious. The right, which is now concerned about the limited autonomy of the institutions to contract, was the same as that one more year ago prohibited contracts in science and higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u121	Therefore, if the idea is to stop taking steps to start marking the step in research and science, we agree, but we need to know, in particular, whether we are not going to have false scholarships to hide unemployment, when the government will convert scholarships into contracts with stability and what is the availability of this government to defuse the value of the bags that have been frozen since 2001. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u122	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister, no public research and science system can be built on the basis of the devaluation of work, the imposition of unpaid work and the absence of fundamental rights in work and in life. But this is the day by day of thousands of scientific workers who, responding to the permanent needs of the institutions, are going from stock exchange to stock exchange, years to wire and how many are not still pocketholders 10, 15 and even 20 years ago. This is the reality of the precariousness, of the uncertainty, of those who do not know whether they will have the research grant the following year or what the scholarship will have. More: it is the reality of those who do not know when they will receive the scholarship, because the unacceptable delays in the payment of scholarships have been recurrent. It is the reality of those who live, because of this work instability, in permanent personal and family instability. It is the reality of those who do not see the value of the updated scholarship for more than 14 years, of those who do not have the right to holiday or Christmas allowance and of those who do not have the right to social protection in unemployment or disease. over the years, political options have gone through successive use of the scholarship, thus preventing access and integration into the research career, thus paying at a very low cost of highly qualified labour and thus disrespecting the rights of these workers. It is absolutely essential — and that is what the CFP understands — the improvement of working conditions and the dignity of careers in the field of scientific work, on a path of respect for the rights of these professionals and on an absolutely essential path for the dynamisation and enhancement of the National Scientific and Technological System. It was precisely in this sense that the CFP delivered today a legislative initiative repealing the current Statute of the Research Fellowship and creating contracts integrated into a career as a training researcher. Mr Minister, for too many years these professionals have seen their rights postponed. What is the Government's commitment, what is the way and what are the deadlines for responding effectively to the concerns expressed by the scientific research fellows? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u124	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, it is absolutely a priority to regain the confidence of the scientific community that has felt under attack and deeply devalued over the past four years by a process of evaluation without the minimum seriousness and with systematic violation of the contractual obligations assumed by the State with the research and development units.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u126	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u127	The mid-term evaluation process carried out by the FCT during the previous government mandate was invented to eliminate the funding of about half of the centres and thus to condemn them to the disappearance — in fact, this included the contract with the entity responsible for the evaluation, the European Science Foundation. The evaluation was just a huge trick: panels of evaluators without credibility and without scientific coverage, rules and deadlines to constantly change... All this to end up with a reduction in funding in the order of 30 to 40 million euros. It is therefore necessary to overcome this unworthy episode. It is time to have a science policy that respects and motivates the scientific community and that does not start from mistrust and divorce with those and the science makers. To that end, Mr Minister and Mrs Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the Left Block points out three fundamental requirements: firstly, an evaluation system that is developed with the contributions of the scientific community itself; secondly, the credibility of the evaluation process, through international panels, which know Portuguese science reality and which are composed of people with indisputable competence; and finally, thirdly, an evaluation process that is the same, a process of evaluation of research and development units and not a hidden process of financing calculation. Mr Minister and Mrs Secretary of State, my question is this: what assurances can we today bring that the scientific community can now be strictly, without exception, with a view to strengthening the institutions of science and not destroying it? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u128	To reply, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start by answering Mrs Laura Magalhães to clarify that there was no waiver of the leadership of the FCT. The term of office ended and what we did, in a democratic and open manner, was, even before the term of office ended, namely two months ago, to open a public consultation process to all institutions, directors, political presidents, researchers, students, unions, scientific advice of the FCT itself and we also set up a reflection group to stimulate this process — in fact, it was a process that had never been involved, as it had never been, about the future of the FCT. So we don't suspend any programs. If you have that information, she is, of course, false. Nothing's suspended, the bags continue. We have only opened a democratic debate process on the future of the Science and Technology Foundation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u130	So they suspended the contest and they say there's no suspension? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u131	It is with confidence that one creates closer and closer that one fights the uncertainty that he referred to. And, for God's sake, if it refers to the execution of 2008, it must be forgotten...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u132	Say the 2009 and 2010 executions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u133	Between 2006 and 2010, overall investment in science in Portugal increased from 0, 6 % of GDP to 1, 6 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u134	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u135	The Science and Technology Foundation in 2006 had an implementation of 220 million and we arrived in 2010 with an execution of 489 million. Mrs. Deputy, I've never grown so much!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u136	Don't answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u137	And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, I could do my part with the words of José Manuel Pureza when he said that the evaluation is certainly done with great determinism, with rigour, with credibility. These were the terms that we passed to the new direction of the Foundation for Science and Technology, giving priority to the establishment of a new contract. But we have more: in addition to the numbers and terms of the evaluation, we believe that we must value knowledge as a public good. And to tell you a little bit about the notion of a true policy of open science, I would ask Mr. President to give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State Fernanda Rollo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u138	You have the floor, Secretary of State for Science, Technology and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u139	Mr President, that is indeed the difference: we are looking for an open knowledge with the challenge of valuing what our science does in Portugal, of what our excellent research has produced in Portugal. As Mr Minister has said, today we have laid the groundwork, the principles for an open national science policy, which is an ambitious process and which, of course, seeks to democratize, to share with everyone access to that knowledge. What's it good for us that he's locked up in the drawers, that he's locked up in the universities, that he's locked up in the investigator's offices? More and more it must be needed, it must be at the service of society and the challenges it poses are increasing. Moreover, this is also the difference: basically, to ensure that what is financed with public investment is shared and returned to society and that it will benefit. Clearly, the process is demanding, knowledge is not cheap, it has to be valued, but the one that is produced has this dignity. Thus some ambitious short-term goals are set out, others in the medium term, but from then on create the public commitment to an open science charter in Portugal and, as mentioned here, mark the step and, above all, let us not be overcome by what, because of circumstances and opportunities, has already been determined in follow-up by the European Commission, which has chosen the question of open access and open science as one of its slogans in this semester. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u140	We have reached the last hour, say in favour of the truth, to enter an action that values precisely the exceptional work that has been done by some Portuguese researchers in this knowledge-sharing, ensuring the holding in Portugal of a preparatory event of the great European Conference on Open Science. What we want is to return to society, to share with society, a knowledge that is of everyone, but that has to be for everyone and at the service of everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u141	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the debate period itself. They are registered to intervene several Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Helena Freitas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u142	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Science and scientific research excited children, young people and adults in an indescriptible way. The curiosity and ambition of knowledge, the search for solutions to problems, the confrontation of ideas, the audacity of thought, are some of the foundations of a unique charm. It does not surprise the extraordinary way in which the community of young Portuguese has grown that they are seduced by science. in recent decades, Portugal has made an undeniable qualitative leap in the field of science. We cannot now waste a journey which, solidly and progressively, has put us on an international competitive footing. in the last four years, we have been very close to ruining this course, for the bad performance of a government that cut in higher education and science, manipulated the evaluation procedures and did much to discredit decades of a decisive scientific policy for the country, led by an exceptional Portuguese : Mariano Gago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party has the responsibility to reverse this direction, recovering one of the most reforming public policies in modern Portugal. I am sure that the new direction of the FCT is already an important step in this new way, so I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State. It is necessary to continue the formative effort, assuming science as a source and expression of the creative vitality of the country. in education and science, is the entrepreneurial force of Portugal. National science is very productive today and its impact will not fail to reflect on the development of the country, but for this it is essential to ensure the stability of Portuguese universities, institutions that have revealed efficient management of public funding, respecting budgets and ensuring a consistently well-evaluated teaching by international indicators. It is in the universities and in the polytechnics that greatly promotes national scientific activity, so it is important to ensure the proper functioning of these institutions which, in addition to developing their work — in teaching and research activity — still have the responsibility to keep alive the expectations of young people who try their professional career in science. Fragiliating the university institution would compete for the decline in national science and, above all, would be a strong contribution to Portugal's backwardness. Political ambition has to be able to provide opportunities for young Portuguese researchers, they are available to make their best contribution and promote the country's competitive development. These opportunities should be created in a business environment, but also in universities and politics, promoting synergies between the two worlds. In recognition of the understanding and sensitivity that Mr Minister has on this subject, I ask you: how do you intend to counteract the precarious employment of young researchers and promote scientific employment, supporting businesses and economic activity in general? How will this strategy be associated with the urgent renewal of the faculty of university institutions? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u143	To request clarification, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u144	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys, Mrs. Helena Freitas, it was a pleasure to hear her but it was also a pleasure to hear in one part of her speech contradicting the speech which, for years, was that of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u146	Let us start with the implementation of the budget. Is that not a unique spell, you know, Mrs. Member? Let us see: budget implementation, 2007, FCT, 41 % of the budgeted ; budget implementation, 2008, FCT, 36 % of the budgeted ; budget implementation, 2009, FCT, 34 % of the budgeted, without any additional funding sources, Minister. We'll wait to see what your budget will now be and then we'll be here to see your execution! During the years of PSD / CDS governance, in addition to FCT funding sources, science had funding through programs, projects and direct applications from universities. Minister, are we going to continue to have projects? Will we continue to have applications for funding? Will the FCT be the only entity to fund science?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u148	Mrs. Helena Freitas, a last note that has to do with a question which you have raised here and which has been so criticized earlier by the Socialist Party. The honourable Member asked Mr Minister, I even took note of the following : « Mr. Minister, what programmes do you have for the employment of young scientists to support companies in their hiring? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Tell me, Mrs. Member: that was not a measure that we so often demanded...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u149	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u150	... and that so many times we wanted to work, and we worked with companies because only 3% of doctors in Portugal work in companies and so many times was criticized by the Socialist Party, because, they said, doctors should only be working in research? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u151	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u152	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u153	It is true, it is, Mrs. Elza Pais. And you, by your own voice, mentioned it many times in this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u154	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u155	In reply, Mrs. Helena Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u156	Mr President, Mr President, your question is indeed very complex and comprehensive, but I must tell you...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u157	That's why we're here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u158	That's why we're here, of course. Regarding funding in scientific research, there is no doubt that there was a very significant decrease and, more than a global decrease in funding in scientific research in Portugal, more than that, was the perverse, manipulated and absolutely foolish form as it was carried out. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The evaluation process of scientific research units was absolutely scandalous.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u159	I hope you have proof of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u160	With regard to the question which Mr. Abel Baptista has put to me, which is too important for the honourable Member to transform here... [[PSD protests.]] If you'll allow me, I'll answer, but frankly, I don't know if my answer is two questions or if it's just one. On the issue which Mr. Abel Baptista has put to me, which is very relevant and very important for Portugal, on the framework of young researchers and their future, what we can do with these young researchers, I do not know if you have been attentive to what I have read, but it is my understanding that the bet should be in two ways: one in the business environment and another in the universities. There is no doubt — and the numbers mirror - very well - that we have not been very successful in the framework of young researchers in the business environment, particularly in companies. There has been some promotion that is, above all, carried out by universities, but unfortunately, we have had little success. from there that I say that what matters—and I am not attributing failure to one or another government, it doesn't matter today—is that we realize that this government wants to bet in a consistent way and recover what has been invested in science and we realize where we can walk. And there is no doubt that it is important to achieve this synergy between the youth framework in companies and the youth framework in universities. This is absolutely vital for the country and I have the firm conviction that this government will be able to understand the responsibility it also has in this regard. I have total confidence in this team! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u161	For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u162	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: One of the government's designs, any government, is to make Portugal a country of science, culture and knowledge. Investment in these areas is a collective project for the future of the country and it is necessary to raise the qualification of the population and to converge with the most developed countries in Europe. It is clear to everyone, with the Charter of Principles announced by the Government, that the PS wants to maintain science in 2005 - 2011 — in the same practices as always or unable to evolve into international standards that allow us to overcome development. As in other areas that are known, the golden rule is to reverse, go back, go back. Blind hatred of our politics makes the unthinkable and the insane. Really undo what was done well. We must remember the PS, the government and the communists of the various left-wings that the PSD has never done in this way. on the contrary, we respected the legacy of Mariano Gago...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u163	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u164	...and we worked without forgetting your commitment. Improving, adding, but never destroying. [[PCP laughter.]] in the government of Dr. António Costa, do not tell the results, only the heimosia. The facts are not considered, they are only distorted. We do not recognize the progress, we defend other interests. That is also what we see in science. Otherwise we see: if there was progress in 2013, it was the evaluation carried out by the European Science Foundation. [[PCP protests.]] We can admit imperfections, we can diverge here and there, but the truth is that it was a considerable advance in relation to what was the previous practice. An external evaluation, independent, blind, with anonymous opinions and no pressure. It was not consensual, it is true, but it has introduced improvements, transparency, demand and competitiveness. And the truth is, after an appropriate assessment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u165	Suitable? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u166	... there was no destruction of R & D units: 80% of the units evaluated were financed, increased annual funding and 90% of the doctors were involved in these evaluated units. This sets out a different paradigm from what had happened so far, in which few units, only 26 in 319 — I repeat, 26 in 319 — received 60% of the institutional funding of the FCT. Today we can take pride in the fact that there are 71 units in 257 evaluated that had « Exceptional» or « Excellent», revealing the strength and increasing quality of our science. Knowing where we found our National Scientific and Technological System ( SCTN ), with breaks in 2009, in 2010 and 2011, it is a good thing to know that even with the difficult adjustment period, we managed to put science on a growing investment path in which we always reinforced the allocation of the FCT, contrary to what this government intends to do. That is why the science budget for 2016 is a bad warning. That is where we see the disinvestment in science, because we find the words of the acts and this collides with the focus which for four years spread unreal and unmeasured messages about the policy pursued. Not recognizing that it has improved in itself was a denial, but not recognizing anything and benefiting from the efforts of the former Government in the strategic reprogramming of the QREN and the new Community framework is even absurd. Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, the former Government maintained Portugal in international organisations—in ESA, CERN, EMBO, etc. — joined new projects, maintained cooperation mechanisms with several countries, including the PALOPs, strengthened Portugal's presence in the European Research Area and maintained international commitments by the Socialist Government. But in the case of partnerships, it reduced them to the essential. The evaluation of the Academy of Finland did not have a positive opinion on them: too expensive and with a completely asymmetric financing structure. They were not real partnerships, the cost was practically borne by only one of the parties—in case, by us—and, in practice, was almost a service provision. The previous PS government has budgeted approximately EUR 140 million between 2006 and 2011, of which EUR 70 million, i.e. half, were directly for our American partners. For each euro of public money spent, directly from the State budget, directly from the taxpayer's tax effort, half went to wages and overheads of American institutions. The Government of the then majority PSD / CDS-PP cut about 70% of these partnerships, as they represented a huge burden for the country and with little return. It is still curious that the partnership model made by Portugal in the time of Socrates has been applied in several countries, such as Mexico and Russia, where the scientific output is not comparable to our production. Knowing that this Government's programme plans to strengthen and increase these partnerships, we can only expect Mr Minister to reconsider this position. Increasing these partnerships, paying the United States such high values, implies reducing investment in other priority areas such as the doctoral programme in the business environment, which is the expectation of many young people, as well as attracting to Portugal top-doctoral researchers and giving a contract opportunity to young doctors every year. We know that the Socialist Party programme also refers to scientific employment exclusively focused on higher education. Even if there is room for the hiring of doctors in higher education institutions, ignoring the critical importance for the country of continuity of stimulus to scientific employment in the non-academic market is worrying. OECD statistics show that in Portugal only 3 % of doctors have employment in companies when they are more than 30 % on the European Union average. The problem of the employability of doctors worldwide has been widely discussed in several publications, notably in Nature, in 2011 and 2015, which addresses it as a crucial topic for technology, entrepreneurship and competitiveness. It is never too much to remember that, in the transition of the 6th. or to 7. the framework programme, the Government of the PS, with the Secretary of State Manuel Heitor, was imminent to see the European Commission interrupting the Structural Funds ( ERDF ) for science due to serious irregularities in compliance with the European rules by the FCT, led at the time by Professor Luís Magalhães. There were delays in project payments, prolonged bureaucracy for more than two years and successive audits. Finally, I think it is not too much to emphasise that all the changes made to the model of science financing and to the governance of the FCT have been greatly praised internationally by unattainable experts and that they do not have an old-fashioned view of the system or are friends of friends...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u167	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u168	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Support for science and technology in Portugal, between 2011 and 2015, was objectively strong, determined and, contrary to what some say, non-disruptive, since it continued to follow the previous model of « broadband », that is, with all areas of science and technology supported, without positive or negative discrimination. Minister Manuel Heitor is still in time not to keep the Minister's label that betrayed science, because he lowered it. in an unheard of desire to reverse everything, he even forgot that to evolve we can only add, but never subtract. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u169	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u170	Mr President, Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education: Even in October 2015 and therefore not many months ago, the University of Lisbon Faculty of Sciences announced a technical research scholarship for the role of receptionist and telephonist. This — we know — is a reality! Gardener, maintenance technician, administrative, even bricklayer, all appeared in research scholarships. They are permanent needs that are being covered by false research scholarships, which should be at the service of the investigation of whom, in fact, needs, while in other cases what is needed is a contract of work. The Association de Combate à Precarité conducted a wide study on research in Portugal, the results of which are as follows: 69 % of the researchers are pockets and only 15, 7% have employment ties; 77, 8% of the researchers have never had a contract of work; 50, 2 % of the fellows accumulate between 5 and 15 years in this condition; 64, 7% of the doctors are pockets; 79, 5 % of the researchers who were unemployed did not have access to social protection in unemployment. These data reveal a reality of great precaution in research and I am concerned about the Minister's lack of reply on this matter. There is indeed a great expectation in the scientific community in Portugal about guarantees of justice and rights. There's no investigation without investigators. Even today, the Minister for Finance announced a plan to combat precariousness in public service. What I would like was that we did not leave this debate without the researchers and the country knowing what is the plan of the Minister of Science to combat the precariousness of research and science, in particular as regards the conversion of scholarships into employment contracts, the value of scholarships and the precariousness of researchers in general. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u171	Mr Miguel Tiago also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u172	Mr President, Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The propaganda discourse about science and technology is widely used and we're also going to be bad if we start trying to create here the exercise that this was all very well, but then the PSD and the CDS gave up everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u174	in fact, it was not all very well, there were structural problems in the National Scientific and Technological System and the PSD and the CDS deepened these problems, further degraded the policy in this dimension,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u175	Not anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u176	... which does not mean—and the whole PCP subscribes to this idea—which was once a "sea of roses" and the legacy that was left was wonderful; on the contrary, the problems tended to worsen and already tended to worsen. We see the numbers around the propaganda on financing: it rises above 1 % of GDP affecting research and development activities, but, of these 1 % of GDP, which are now more, is almost 1, 5 % of GDP, more than half of GDP is in the private sector and comes up mainly when there is a tax benefit that allows large companies, large economic groups to state practically what they want as investment in research and development. Let us see what is the sector which, in Portugal, invests more in research and development. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what it is? It's the banking and insurance sector! It is the financial sector, in order to develop financial products, precisely the same ones that are then sold to the customers of the banks, burst into the hands of the State and are to be paid, for example, to BES obligations which later became problems for the Portuguese State to resolve. These are financial products that have been investigated in the bank with the allocation of millions of euros! For example, the Millenium BCP and BPI are among the companies that invest most in research and development and declare, each of them, anything like 140 people at full-time service to work in research and development. How many doctors do you have in your paintings? You know, there are no doctors in the research sector, or at least they don't report them. The PT itself, which is the company which invests most in research and development in Portugal — and I have less doubt about it than about the bank which does research and development in fact — nevertheless declares a total staff, in research and development, of 370 people at the service equivalent in full time. And how many full-time doctors? Four! This shows the fragility of all this talk about the National Scientific and Technological System, which aims to make science and technology policy only a pity to stifle the policy of successive governments. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we try to hide these problems, we will not solve them. While we try to emphasize the idea that we should promote only niches of excellence and allow state laboratories to be degraded, the provision of services in the area of other science and technology activities, which are fundamental to research and development, while allowing precariousness to be the rule in hiring or, better, in the use of highly qualified labour, while we continue to whistle to the side, while thousands of highly qualified Portuguese are precariously in the system or move outside the country and deliver virtually all the investment that the country has made in that work to other countries, because we are not able to fix here, we will not be able to solve the fundamental problems of the National Scientific and Technological System. Mr Minister, we can make the rounds we want, make the letters of principles of the FCT that we want, as long as we do not solve the precariousness, as long as we do not open the research career, as long as we do not end this thing from the scholarships, as long as we do not end a higher education that makes itself not a right but a market, as long as we do not seriously invest to fill the deficit we have, because we have 7 researchers per 1000 inhabitants in the asset, but, for these 7 researchers, we have half the investment of the European Union average, i.e. per capita,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u177	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u178	... as a researcher, we have half the funding of the European Union average, as far as we are concerned, this financing problem is the basis of all others, including combating career freezes and combating precariousness. on the basis of all the problems, it remains the political option to finance, invest and make the State or not lead public investment in the National Scientific and Technological System. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u179	Mr Elza Pais has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State for Science, Technology and Higher Education, people with evidence and an idea of the future for science. I begin by lamenting the devaluation that the right has made of this debate, considering that science is not important enough to have an autonomous debate here. [[PSD protests.]] So, Minister and Secretary of State, we can say that science is really back, whether or not you want to or not. PSD Members. And he's back, because he's talking with the scientific community, with the researchers, with the pocketmen, dialogue, this one, which has been interrupted by the gentlemen. But it is back more than that, a strategy for science is back, an idea of science with the future, of access to broadband, as Mr Minister has said, something that you have cut, narrowing it down, to have a cream that would not translate democratization, on the contrary, prevents the democratization of science. So we are turning the black page that Castro enrolled in science in Portugal and that, Mrs. Nilza de Sena — listen to me! — it was worth the most fierce calls of alert by the scientific community and the board of directors! Everyone's alert! [[Protests by PSD MP Nilza de Seine.]] No one's left out except the gentlemen! We therefore welcome the strategic vision of the government for science, which will abandon experimentalism and a paradigm that I consider the paradigm failed, the paradigm is not of excellence, because excellence we all want, but, yes, of false excellence, which the previous government has tried to impose. But now it will be replaced by the paradigm of true, broad-based excellence, which does not exclude anyone, which all integrates into a close relationship between the scientific community, regions and development, which you have not done. This relationship of trust with scientists is thus being restored, with positive effects that have resulted in the choice of the new FCT team (Science and Technology Foundation), which results from an extended process of dialogue with the scientific community that will serve. Therefore, we can say that the arrogance, the lack of flexibility, the lack of transparency and irregularities in the procedures has come to an end.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u182	... which characterized the management of Crato. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The national scientific and technological system is back and rests, Mr. Miguel Tiago, because this government will reverse the trend of work precariousness and gross cuts in research scholarships...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u183	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u184	...which led thousands of researchers to forced emigration, which we reported here, and brain drain. The Government programme provides for the recruitment of young people with doctorate and without doctorate — we have a difference here, but that is the case. In any case, this issue will be resolved within the framework of the current governance, at least with regard to scholarships for doctors. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] This is why a new strategy for hiring scientific employment is under way. We have a new political agenda for science and an agenda for research and innovation. And we have a project, the public participation laboratories, which will stimulate the involvement of civil society, on the one hand, of young researchers, on the other, and also of the regions. That is, we will have an agenda of science associated with a development agenda, which we had not previously, on the contrary, this agenda of development had been blocked. We therefore welcome the Government's priorities in this area, in particular the enhancement of political education, on a regional basis, which will greatly contribute to the development of our regions, open science, open access, extended science and the democratization of knowledge as it should, because knowledge cannot only be for some, we must comply with the constitutional principle of equal access to knowledge, and the Government's programme goes that way. We welcome the dialogue that has already begun with the scientific community, because it is this strategy that science needs, that is the strategy that Portugal needs. The right now is concerned about the margin for recruitment and rejuvenation. Mrs Nilza de Sena should have come four years ago because they destroyed the contract and prevented rejuvenation. Mrs Nilza de Sena, the right, when she was speaking in the rostrum, forgot to say that there were gross cuts of 65 % and 40 % in the doctoral and post-doctoral scholarships. [[Protests by PSD MP Nilza de Seine.]] It was forgotten to say that there were gross cuts in funding to research units, and the number of supporters rose only from 50 to 80 because 30 % took only 1 % of the funding. With this, they wanted to make a budget juggling... [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u185	...to cover our eyes with dust, but they couldn't, neither to us nor to scientists,... [[PSD protests.]] ... because they had renowned scientists, like Sobrinho Simões, saying that the last government was trying to make a creative destruction of science. But, fortunately, we're still going in time to stop it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u186	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I had to turn into intervention a request for clarification that I had to make to the Socialist Party, because I was engrossed with two statements by Mrs Elza Pais, and I would like to see clarification by the Socialist Party and the honourable Member. There are two things that are not right: science, scientific research and the search for knowledge is not a question of democratization, it is a question of choice for those who are best able to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u189	That, yes, leads to excellence, which you say is what we want. Now, Mrs Deputy, you explain to us how you want to democratise access to scientific research with excellence. It's just that this doesn't work! [[Protests from PS Deputy Elza Pais.]] This is because one thing is, and we agree with this, access to science, the results of research and the practical application of these results. in this, yes, we agree. Now, Mrs Deputy, democratization of science in the sense of being equal to all, if it is not necessary to make selection, if no one has to be selected, this does not result. [[Protests by PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]] This is a government that does not transfer anything to what should be the merit, to what should be the knowledge, to what should be the research, to, indeed, what is worth and deserves public funds to then be at the service of everyone,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u190	It's the opposite of what they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u191	...for your results, these, yes, be for all. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u192	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the conclusion of the debate, we are moving to the conclusion of the debate. Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In addition to the propaganda of successive governments, the national scientific and technological system has profound shortcomings in the most diverse plans, human, technical, material, financial, economic and political. on the human level, because, in addition to the speeches of governments who like to use science and technology as a decorative element of their policies, the truth is that, according to the evolution of the survey data to the National Scientific and Technological Potential, there is a huge mass of researchers who occupy an important part of their time in technical tasks, diverting their potential to administrative or technical tasks, which shows that there is still a great lack of investment in the system, in particular, in human resources. in technical and material plans, because institutions are, in many cases, equipped with obsolete material, which has not been modernized for decades. in the financial plan, because the main sector of the system, that of higher education, is subject to very little funding and because the State Laboratories, another of the fundamental pillars of the system, are subject to fully adjusted funding standards of their mission and their work, placing laboratories, universities and politicians competing for money rather than cooperating as a network. in economic terms, because the policy of destruction of the productive apparatus and the abandonment of productive activities and national exploitation of resources have put the operation of the economy at the service of great economic interests and often at the service of foreign interests. This abandonment of a policy of stimulus to productive activity guides research to areas whose sole aim is to dispute funding, rather than to resolve the country's social and economic issues. There are problems at the political level, because there is no strategy that defines the mission of each institution, of each of the pillars of the national scientific and technological system. For a national scientific and technological system capable of responding to the needs of the country, it is necessary, first and foremost, to solve these structural problems with the recruitment of technicians, the release of researchers to real research tasks and, at the same time, more than doubling public investment in research and development, insofar as per capita funding of investigator has been a strong limitation to the scientific potential of the country. In short, 100 researchers are available, for example, if there are only 50 financial resources. It is necessary to re-evaluate research careers and allow for regular career progression and the restoration of the generational flow of knowledge, which can only be ensured with a policy that puts an end to precariousness, which sets and brings back the qualified young people that this country has unfortunately seen to leave. A scientific and technological system subordinated to the criteria for competitive financing and to the European Union diverts our national potential to the achievement of objectives that are at nothing related to the goals of the country. The total set of competitive budgets in obtaining funding for projects, with a view to, uniquely and exclusively, the EIP (European Innovation Partnership) for publication, and the dispute over the European project, instead of establishing the fundamental lines for our research, whether in the social areas, whether applied, or fundamental, we are diverted to the immediate achievement of these results, which are, finally, merely accounting and have no objective effect on promoting the structure of our national scientific and technological system. A new policy for the country must involve a new policy for the scientific and technological system and vice versa. There cannot be a science and technology policy that expands the scientific potential and places it at the service of the country, while national, central policy options continue in the path of national deepening which the previous Government has so deeply deepened. There is an urgent need for a new political direction aimed at meeting people's needs and, for that reason, a policy of respect for workers is essential. Today, the CFP presented a project aimed at repealing the current Statute of the Fellowship and creating a new career of researchers in training. We also need a policy that values research activities in all areas — social, economic, applied and academic...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u195	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, there is also a need for a policy that will value research activities in all areas that will put an end to the higher education market. And the PCP, in addition to the proposals on propines, today also presented a proposal to establish the sufficient digital format for the presentation of theses in higher education, relieving students of this. A policy is needed which gives each institution a definite and concrete function and at the same time gives material, human and financial means to achieve it. A policy of dynamizing the scientific system is needed in a policy of defending national sovereignty and that uses knowledge, knowledge, technology and science as tools for raising awareness and the well-being of all who live and work in Portugal. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u196	For a closing intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: at the end of this debate at the request of the CDS,... [[You've been required by the PS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u198	Yeah, for the PS. [[He said he had been required by the CDS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u199	Ah! It was a lapse! I'm self-centered, I'm sorry! [[Laughing.]] As I said, at the end of this debate on the subject of science, and only on the subject of science, I confess that I was lost for its purpose and with the conclusions we can take from here. Maybe it's my fault! The Minister has not brought here, unfortunately, new ideas or a new vision, mentioning only medium-term plans and general guidelines that are under consideration. [[Protests of PS Members.]] It seems that the great reason for this debate, its great reason for being, was the recent takeover of the FCT. Moreover, the questions which the parliamentary groups here have brought, whether they were ours or the CSDs, whether they were those of the other parliamentary groups, from how various measures expressed in the Government's programme will be implemented to labour and precarious issues, to the issues of FCT financing, to what will be done to increase the doctorate ratios in companies, nothing by the Government has a clear answer. We therefore do not discuss science, because we rule out higher education institutions, as if they were not an integral and central part of the science and technology system. We do not discuss science, because we do not understand and do not hear, on the part of the government, how it will create a productive channel, both commercial and social, between universities and companies. at the end of this debate, I therefore look forward to knowing the true priorities of scientific policy, and I fear that it will only come to know them at the time of the discussion of the State budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u200	For a closing intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first premise for the Left Block, when a debate is opened on the future of science in Portugal, is to reject a policy of destruction, which has been carried out in the last four years of right-wing governance. And therefore, without this premise, we will hardly be able to find new solutions. This premise of destruction was based on the idea of an image of a poor country, low wages, poor democracy, poor development and poor scientific research. [[PSD protests.]] This was a design for other nationalities, it was a design for other research centres out there, it was not a design for a country that was betting on low wages and a policy of austerity, devastating for people's incomes. That is why, in the name of knowledge, we reject a policy of deprivation to that same knowledge, following that of the last four years. by knowledge, against the deprivation of information! Secondly, it is also necessary to reject the idea that it does scientific research only the best of the best. This idea of excellence is perverse to any public policy for science. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u202	In fact, a public policy for science places on a strategy of democratization, seeking scientific solutions for the country in the field of technology, health, the environment, society and so many others. The last paradigm that has been tried in the last four years of mass scientific production and the production of impact indicators has defended research centres and researchers themselves. This frenzy was combined with the cut in funding, less human resources, redundancies and less investment in research projects. The fact is that there is also no scientific research without researchers and researchers need more than ever work contracts. We cannot continue to admit that research is not work, and work requires employment contracts. The current Statute of the Research Fellowship only resizes the value of the Labour Code for these same researchers and basically creates a parallel regime that diverts researchers from a series of labour rights. The truth is that it has not been, nor is it, only in the labour contracts that the scourge of research lives in Portugal. The evaluation that was carried out in the last four years of the governance of PSD and CDS in relation to research centres shows that part of what was the wealth of research and development in Portugal was destroyed. We can even admit that, first of all, we could say yes, that this assessment was made by a number of independent agencies, but then what about the financing cut, for example, to the Linguistic Center of the University of Porto, internationally recognized? It is one of the main centers of the Iberian Peninsula in linguistics and has seen, due to the evaluation of the same agency, a cut in its funding. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u203	Therefore, we cannot continue to admit that science policy serves for any President of the Republic or for any minister of higher education and science to offer prizes when our researchers are applauded out there. The question that arises here today, for science policies, is just one: the connection with business fabric cannot be the only objective. We cannot continue to have a purely productive view of knowledge, but we are automatically burying, for example, all areas of social and human sciences and arts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u204	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u205	I will finish, Mr. President. What country do we want? A country that applauds Portuguese scientists who win abroad prizes or bet on them, national science and that links them to our research and strategies? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u206	For a closing intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State : The Government has shown here today that it well knows what to do for Portugal to be a country of science and that it is doing so in good time and with determination. The Charter of Guiding Principles for the Foundation for Science and Technology, alongside the possession of the new direction, is good news for science. After a legislature in which the FCT alienated the confidence of the scientific community and the country, serving a wrong political orientation that aimed at a science for a few, supposedly excellent, we must welcome this reorientation, in order to make the FCT again a vector of trust and a reference of stability to the scientific community, in particular as regards the financing and credibility of the evaluation processes. Scientists, those who really do research their lives, know how important it is, despite the benches on the right, they do not seem to know. Access to knowledge is not merely instrumental, that is to say, in terms of fundamental rights and the demands of democratization. The principle of knowledge for all, oriented towards the sharing, in open access, of knowledge produced with public funding, contrary to the oligopoly of the academic edition, is decisive for the future of science in an open society. We therefore welcome today's presentation of the principles for an open national science policy and support the Government's determination to pursue this path. Science does not live outside or above the country. The rhetoric of excessive qualifications, which is always part of the obscurantist narratives, has served in the recent past of justification to reduce support for advanced training and scientific employment. This is a dangerous rhetoric, even because it does not cease to have responsibilities in the continuing precariousness and that it is necessary to fight, as it is responsible for emigration of qualified young people, to the detriment of the gathering of brains we had achieved in previous years. When it comes to looking at the role of knowledge in socio-economic development, it is not worth attempting to polarize the debate between, on the one hand, a utilitarian vision, paying attention only to the economic importance of science and technology, and on the other, a cultural vision, which underlines the critical value of knowledge, we must reconcile the merits of both visions, until it is a matter of not neglecting the responsibilities of public policies in the pursuit of the common good. It should be remembered that when it comes to investing in R & D ( research and development ), public spending encourages private spending and public investment, as we have in the last legislation, drags private investment. This is about the indications that Mr. Minister of Science has left to us about the strategy of modernising and valuing polytechnic education, indicating that it also goes through the strengthening of the activities of R & D based on experience, where each technician values its specific competences and puts them in line with the specificities of the economic and social fabric in which it is entered. Working for the positive with the diversity of institutions is the right way for a Portugal of knowledge, to stimulate regional development, through processes of organizational change capable of inducing and supporting practices of increasing value added and dynamizing innovation. I'm done, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Government members, testifying that I feel that José Mariano Gago, the scientist, the humanist, the professor, the politician, would have liked to attend this debate. I miss having your advice, when you told me, on any Saturday morning on Anchieta Street, whether that translation of Goethe poems was a advisable translation or not. Twenty-six years after the Manifesto for Science in Portugal, if José Mariano Gago were here today would applaud what the team of the Ministry of Science came to tell us, and with him, we also applaud and greet. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u208	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor for a closing speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: by taking the floor to close this debate on behalf of the PSD, we could not fail to highlight the numbers of school dropout today disclosed by the INE (National Institute of Statistics ), for which we should all congratulate. The progress made by the Portuguese school in recent years is enormous, given the fact that it has just been verified: the great reduction in early school dropout. It is an encouraging reduction, so that we continue at this rate, we will certainly be able to go beyond the European target of 10 % by 2020, which was still difficult to achieve five years ago. Let us not forget that in 2011 school dropout was 23% and that the Portuguese school was now able to fall below 14%. This is defending public school. [[Protests by PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget the evolution that the country has had in this sector and that we should all welcome — school, students, teachers, parents, education officers. But, returning to this debate now closed, it is clear that after four years of propaganda of the status quo against the reform carried out by the previous government, science in Portugal has not gone back, it has evolved. Or it evolved. Or at least it's changed so far. Our research centres have gained international competitiveness, thanks to a restructuring and concentration carried out by the previous government in this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u210	They're still on time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u211	Portugal has ceased to be a net contributor to science, we have turned to obtaining more external funding, to winning more international competitions, to shading with the best international centres. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: is it with science destroyed that we have better results than in the past? Is it with the destruction of the sector that we have never achieved results abroad before?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u212	I could have asked that question before!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u213	We have finally had an external evaluation of research units, not only by peers but also by independent external entities. That, yes, is to democratize science and, above all, to allow everyone equal access and not just to them. [[PCP protests.]] We regret, therefore, the news that comes there, and we also regret the expected suspension of the research programme FCT, which gave stability, predictability and true working conditions to our researchers. Several recommendations, national and international, defended the continuity of this programme. By revenge, or mere tacit, or political cosmetics, a good program will stay on the way. However, we stress the novelty today announced of the creation of an annual timetable. It is a good principle that we recognize and support in this bench. We only regret that the first decision of this Government has been to suspend all the advanced training programmes of the FCT and the national invitation to tender for projects. contrary to what Mr Minister here said that they were not suspended, it could be an euphemism but what was now open in the past is appreciated by the guardianship. If this is not to be suspended, I would like Mr. Minister to clarify us. Speaking of this, I could not fail to be surprised by the suspension of medical programmes in companies, as soon as that is one of the main problems and failures of research in Portugal indicated by international panels, the OECD and the European Commission. What was also surprising in this debate, and it seems, is the slowing down of investment in science. The Minister did not reply here when we asked him what was the implementation in 2009, 2010 and 2011. This is because one thing is the government's budget and another thing is to execute, and, contrary to what they said, from 2013, in 2014 and 2015, the execution and budgeting in science has always increased. What today seems to have is not a new science policy, it is a new science narrative. But speaking in democracy in science, I would like to stress another number that seems important to me. When some fill their mouths about democracy in science, I would like to say that in 2011 60% of FCT's institutional funding went to 26 laboratories...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u214	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u215	... and that, in 2015, went to 71. Isn't this democratizing science? Mr. President and Mr. Members, the change of status quo is fundamental in science in Portugal. We cannot let them always receive the same funding, i.e. that the status quo ante, without external evaluation, continued to be John evaluating Manuel and Manuel evaluating John. Is this destroying science? Don't! This is democratizing research in Portugal. That is why we say, in conclusion, that it is possible and, above all, it is necessary to maintain the evaluation by the peers, but the external component cannot be removed, but we will return to it: to John evaluating the Manuel, who will then evaluate John and who will then evaluate the Manuel.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u216	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u217	Mr. President, I finish by recalling also the legacy of Mariano Gago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u218	Everyone wants Mariano Gago's legacy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u219	It is that Mariano Gago's legacy is not to spend more, it is to invest better, it is to promote external and internal competitiveness, to allow science to reach the best, but not always to the same ones, to those who do not feed science, but to those who feed on science in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u220	To close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is marked by the occurrence of the first fifteen-year debate in this science-related legislation, but is also marked by the appointment of the new Board of Directors of the Foundation for Science and Technology, a fundamental institution of the national scientific system. in reality, the bet on knowledge, representing a central design of the Government Program and the action of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, is directly reflected in the particular relevance that the FCT occupies in Portuguese society. It was in this context that I held this morning the new Directorate of the Foundation for Science and Technology, following a process, unpublished in Portugal, of public discussion about the future of the FCT. Started exactly two months ago, this process included the hearing of a wide range of members and institutions of the scientific community and higher education and also involved the establishment of a reflection group dedicated to stimulating public discussion and reflecting on the guidelines that should preside over the near future of the FCT. the auscultation carried out resulted in a diverse set of contributions that is now available on the government portal. It is in this context to guarantee the participation of the academic and scientific community in the construction of public policies of science, technology and higher education, which we present today also the Charter of Principles for the Guidance of the Foundation for Science and Technology. It is today consensual in Portuguese society that the FCT has been, since its creation by José Mariano Gago in 1997, an essential entity for the development of science and technology in Portugal, accompanied by investment in training and development and contributed to its success and results achieved in the higher education system and particularly in universities. However, Portuguese society also knows that, in recent years, the political options that have been instituted, changing assumptions and priorities in the field of scientific and technological development, have compromised the continuity of the growth of the national scientific and technological system and the affirmation of the FCT itself, giving rise to a context of growing criticism and challenge, widespread to the entire scientific community. Mr Duarte Marques, I recall that between 2005 and 2010 the implementation of the Science and Technology Foundation doubled from about 222 million euros to 489 million euros in 2010 and reduced to 371 million euros in 2015. Thus, since the last four years, there has been a 23 % reduction in the actual reduction in its budget. These are the numbers in the official accounts of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is precisely the reversal of this process and the reaffirmation of the mission of the CTF as a central institution in the implementation of science and technology policy based on appropriate evaluation and financing practices, which I now entrusted to the new CTF Board of Directors. It is indeed urgent to reorient the action of the FCT, ensuring full centrality in the national scientific and technological system. Our priority for the next months and until next year 2017, when we celebrate 50 years of the creation of JNICT ( National Scientific and Technological Research Board ) and 20 years of the creation of the FCT, we have managed to establish an indispensable framework for strengthening the autonomy of academic and scientific institutions and ensuring a system of evaluation based on good practice and recognized by the scientific community. We also guarantee a scenario of stability to financing R & D projects and activities. Mr. Luís Monteiro, you can be sure that we are committed to change, but we certainly know that times are of increasing demand and great budgetary restraint, requiring a context of co-responsibility of the scientific community for the development of Portugal, as well as, in the first instance, of the agents of scientific policy, among which the FCT plays a unique role in Portuguese society. This is how we consider the immediate priorities of the FCT, certainly, and according to what we hear today from Mr. José Manuel Pureza, first of all, to ensure the launch of a new process and system of evaluation of R & D activities, meeting international standards and respecting clear and transparent rules recognized by the scientific community in the coming weeks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is urgent to credible the practice of independent scientific evaluation, excluding the irresponsible and acritical use of metrics for evaluation purposes and ensuring serious evaluation processes that allow the use of their results as a strategic management tool within the institutions, as we have systematically remembered, the Board of Rectors of the Portuguese Universities. Secondly, we want to ensure a versatile and open organisational context for innovation and, certainly, according to what we also heard today from Deputies Miguel Tiago and Joana Mortágua, to stimulate support for the continued renewal of the scientific community. They can be sure that this is our priority, that our orientation to the CTF is to ensure the generational transition and maintenance of the scientific capital installed, within the framework of the statutes of the teaching career and researcher. This has to be done, clearly, Mrs Ana Bessa, with a strong link with the universities and political institutes and this was our orientation to the new Governing Council of the Foundation for Science and Technology, as well as ensuring the effective strengthening of scientific infrastructures, encouraging Portugal's participation in European programmes and promoting the diversification of funding sources. Portugal has experienced a brutal fall in private investment in recent years, contrary to what has been said to us, because Portugal knows as well as in Europe private investment only increases when public investment leverages private activity and public investment is essential to ensure the public good that we all see in science and technology. But for this, we also need more scientific and technological culture, and to that end we guide the Foundation for Science and Technology to work on stimulating science and technology education, because we believe it is a clear and true role of all the ministries that have the past of science in any modern society. Promoting more competitiveness and more knowledgeable economy are the guidelines we have given to the National Innovation Agency, certainly in conjunction with the economic and productive fabric. I would also like to refer to two critical aspects of the new science policy. First, the absolute need to promote the dissemination and sharing of knowledge. To that end, we are now launching the principles for an open national science policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We aim, above all, to ensure the completeness of open access to the contents of scientific activity and the results of the research funded through the FCT. Secondly, Mr. Abel Baptista, some things distinguish us, and the concept of democratization of research and knowledge certainly distinguishes us. We want to strengthen and extend the social basis for supporting knowledge and therefore we have launched an unprecedented programme of strengthening research activities in the political institutes today in order to enhance its impact on Portuguese society and economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This programme is structured in the observation of the competences and specificities of each political institute and the territorial, economic and social context in which it is incorporated, considering the system as a whole and the unequivocal importance of it for the development of the country and the valorization of each region in particular. I believe, Mr Tiago, that this is also the meaning of his words and therefore within the framework of this Government's programme, we want to bet on a clear policy of recognition of the importance and intrinsic value of political institutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u222	Mr Minister, I ask you to synthesize your speech. Mr President, we have been kind enough to give you a first chance to speak, which has a positive side, which is the fact that we can follow with all our attention, but it also has a less positive side for you, which is to see that there is still a good deal left to finish. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to synthesize the final part of your speech, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u223	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. The future of the Portuguese, our future, is intertwined in a common design for all peoples. We all benefit from the enthusiasm and benefits of the discovery of new knowledge, when we all participate in the learning and productive application of these knowledge. We therefore believe that it is important to democratize access to science and knowledge, that there should be continued efforts to support scientific activity, its institutions, relations with society, but also scientific employment and advanced training. Thank you very much for your attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-10.u224	We have thus reached the end of the second and last item of our agenda today. The plenary session tomorrow has a particularly complex agenda, which includes the following points: First of all, we will have an urgent debate required by the PSD Parliamentary Group on the privatisation of the TAP and the amendments to the contract that signed the 61 % alienation of the capital of the TAP to the Atlantic Gateway consortium by the State. The evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 87/ XIII ( 1 ) is followed. a ) — Launch of a cultural intervention programme in Brazil following the fire at the Museum of the Portuguese Language of São Paulo ( PSD ) and 148 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government deepen institutional and operational cooperation between the Camões Institute - Institute for Cooperation and Language and the entities responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the Portuguese Language Museum with a view to restoring the Museum and restoring the technological acquis ( CDS-PP ). It will be then generally appreciated draft law No 129 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 5 / 2011 of 2 March approving the Law of Portuguese Honorary Orders, incorporating the Order of Trucks under national orders ( PS ) ; The evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 71/ XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Extension of the transitional period provided for in the status of teaching career of university and technical higher education, ensuring conditions for the completion of doctoral studies and correcting injustices ( BE ), 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the creation of a new transitional regime for the completion of the degree of doctor and effective hiring with public links of public higher education teachers ( CFP ) and 150 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to ensure fairness in the application of transitional schemes for the statutes of public higher education ( PS ) and petition No 541 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures relating to the right to employment stability of teachers and researchers in higher education; Draft resolutions Nos 30/ XIII ( 1 ) will also be appreciated. ( a ) — Urgent resolution of environmental problems in São Pedro da Cova ( PCP ), 99 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the complete removal of hazardous waste deposited in the former coal mines of São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, and the measures to correct and contain environmental impacts on the site ( PSD ), 121 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of hazardous waste deposited in São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, environmental monitoring of the landing site for information of populations and protection of public health ( PS ), 136 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to resolve the environmental liabilities of the former mines of São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, and identify each of the actors involved in the decision-making and control chain in the deposition of toxic waste with a view to the clearance of financial and criminal responsibilities, as well as to ensure that amounts unduly paid ( CDS-PP ), 144 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of the removal and treatment of hazardous waste in the scraps of the ancient mines of São Pedro da Cova ( BE ) and 151 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Final resolution of the environmental problem resulting from the deposition of hazardous waste in S. Pedro da Cova, Gondomar ( The Greens ) ; Finally, we will examine draft resolutions Nos 38/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the secondary school of Quinta do Peru in the parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ( BE ), 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of secondary school in Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra, Setúbal district ( PCP ), 137 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of secondary school 142 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the Peruvian secondary school in the parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ( PSD ), 147 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Need for urgent construction of a secondary school in Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra ( The Greens) and 149 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prioritise the construction of the school of Quinta do Peru in the municipality of Sesimbra ( PS ) and petition No 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Board of Freguesia of Quinta do Conde and the Associations of Parents of the Schools of Quinta do Conde, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to allow the construction of a secondary school in Quinta do Conde. The session is over. [[It was 18 hours and 5 minutes.]]
