ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Like the ladies. Members know, because it has already been explained yesterday, our agenda today is composed of the evaluation of a wide range of bills and draft resolutions, presented by many parties, and, at the end of the debate, by the legislative votes. But before we start the debate, I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following initiatives have been admitted: Bill No. 23 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes a system for the reimbursement of fuel taxes for freight transport undertakings by amending the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, approved by Decree-Law No 73 / 2010 of 21 June 2010 and the General Tax Offences Regime, approved by Law No 15 / 2011 of 5 June 2011 which falls to 5. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 365 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures for the automatic exchange of tax information and the prevention of money laundering within the framework of the transposition of Community directives ( PSD ), 367 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of High School Alexandre Herculano, Porto ( BE ), 368 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Saving money to privates to invest in the National Health Service ( BE ) and 369 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a transparency contract with future pensioners: information on the pension expectation to be received when reaching the legal age of reform ( CDS-PP ) ; draft deliberations Nos 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Resolution No 2 - PL / 2016, adopted on 29 January, which lays down the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in the XIII Legislation ( RA President ) and 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ). Mr President, we also have to vote for an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the waiver of the mandate required by Mr Paulo Portas ( CDS-PP ), a constituency in Lisbon, being replaced by Filipe Anacoreta Correia ( CDS-PP ), with effect from 9 June. The opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics is that the terms of reference should be waived and the replacement in question must be admitted, since they comply with the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u3	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, according to the marking of the Left Block, we now proceed to the joint assessment of the projects of lein.o 203 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Bans payments to non-cooperating offshore entities ( BE ), 204 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Defines the concept of effective beneficiary for the purposes of the IRC Code ( BE ), 205 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extend the securities to the carrier and determine the write-off of the securities, ensuring the identification of their holders ( BE ), 206 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents cash payments above EUR 10 000 ( BE ), 207 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the effective beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE ), 235 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Requires the annual publication of the total value and destination of transfers and remittances to countries, territories and regions with preferential taxation arrangements ( BE ), 236 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — condition the tax benefits of the Madeira Free Zone to the creation of stable and full-time jobs ( BE), 255 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting trade relations, or professional, or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFP ), 256 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defines the terms in which any company is considered resident for tax purposes, ensuring that its income is taxed in Portugal ( PCP ), 257 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases tax rates for financial operations to entities subject to a clearly more favourable tax system under the terms of the stamp tax ( PCP ), 258 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax schemes under the IRC ( CFP ), 259 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax schemes under the IRS ( CFP ), 260 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the conditions under which a country, region or territory may be considered to be clearly more favourable tax regime ( CFP ), 261 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans cash payments above EUR 3000 ( PS ) and 262 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans the issue of securities to the carrier ( PS ) and 263 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for payments made in cash ( CDS-PP ), in general, and draft resolutions 300 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the Community legal framework in order to increase transparency in financial transactions ( PSD ), 317 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends strengthening and deepening of European coordination and action on transparency in taxation and financial transactions ( PS ), 362 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to increase the coordination of European action in the area of tax transparency and the fight against tax evasion ( CDS-PP ), 363 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends consideration of the creation of a central register of securities in the context of the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 ( CDS-PP ) and 365 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures for the automatic exchange of tax information and the prevention of money laundering within the framework of the transposition of Community directives ( PSD ). For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Probably some will know of the existence of a famous character of animation films called "Dori". Dori is actually a little fish that suffers from short-term memory loss, which gives her an admirable ability to surprise over and over again with the same thing. The parallel of this with this discussion is obvious, since we also live every financial scandal as if it were the first, and to each new basin we are surprised: "Look! An offshore one! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u6	This was the case at BPN, BPP, BCP, Finantia, BES, Swiss Leaks, Luxembourg Leaks and Panama Papers. We have been in this for at least a decade and the truth is that nothing really transformer has yet been done, here or in international instances, nothing to cut the evil by the root. And since we do not live in a world of colorful fish, but rather sharks, political inaction in this matter has meaning and an interpretation. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The first excuse for political inaction is the idea that, as a general rule, offshorers, and all that circulates around them, would have a legitimate purpose, but are abused by unscrupulous people. It's a mistake. To begin with, it is a mistake because moral evaluation is purely subjective. Consider, for example, the case of Dias Loureiro. For many people Loureiro Days, who was involved in the robbery of BPN, is a very unrecommendable entrepreneur; for the former Prime Minister Steps Rabbit, is an example of tenacity and demand. And, as you can see, there is no clear criterion for what would be a benign use of an offshore. But moral evaluation is misleading, above all, because, in a system that lives to explore the margins of the law, it is very difficult to distinguish the planning of avoidance, the techniques of competition from market manipulation, the fiscal optimization of fraud and all this from money laundering. Offshores exist so that people and companies can circumvent national legislation and there is no virtue in it. The second excuse for political inaction is the trivialization of many of these practices, which have become considered acceptable parts of the normal functioning of the business world. It is for this reason that the administrations of the largest Portuguese companies, such as EDP or Jerónimo Martins, continue to enjoy prestige and respectability, even though, in a perfectly selfish and harmful option for the country, they maintain tax offices in the Netherlands or Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u7	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u8	And it will be worth remembering here a memorable moment from the Committee of Inquiry to BES. Luís Horta and Costa had been called to speak as administrator of Escom, who, for whom it is not remembered, was the company of GES in Angola, and decided, without lawyers and voluntarily, to explain the fate of the commission of 16.5 million, paid by the German consortium in the purchase of submarines to the Portuguese State. the money distributed to the members of the BES Superior Council remained 6 million, and it was mistrusted that they had finished paying for the purchase of political decision-makers. When Horta and Costa clarified, there was a sigh of relief in the room: after all, the money had not been to buy politicians, nor for corruption, just to set up a tax escape scheme. To that end, Horta and Costa also disembarked, made use of an approved law in the Assembly of the Republic — the exceptional system of tax regulation. Since 2010 alone, there have been three of these fiscal amnestys in Portugal which have legally enabled the washing of EUR 6 billion. And all this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is considered trivial in the world in which we live.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u9	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u10	The pride and defamation with which Horta and Costa reported how they escaped the tax is comparable to Google's claims to comment on the fact that the company uses Bermuda to minimize its tax revenue in Europe. And I quote: «We are very proud of the structure that we have set up... it is called capitalism». It is appropriate to ask: Is Google's owner an entrepreneur or a criminal? Will these operations be simple fiscal optimization or clear tax evasion? We do not know, but we are certain of one thing: this is called "capitalism". [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not allow the screams of the honourable Members. Members of the CDS in the benches or these reports divert us from the list of excuses for political inaction. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In addition to the moral argument and the trivialization of abuse, there is still a third argument: impotence. We are always too small and insignificant to change, in fact, « alone», something is usually added. It is easy to understand that leaving this subject pending conditions for international coordination is the best guarantee that this subject will never be resolved. Portugal will not be part of the solution if you maintain the hypocritical attitude to say that it is available to be part of the solution, but only when everyone else is also available. Yes, we will contribute to the solution when we exhaust all the potential that our law gives to combat these practices. And there are, for now, two things to do. First of all, the law against abuse needs to be shielded and transparency imposed. It is in this sense that some of the proposals that the Left Block brings to this debate, such as the removal of securities to the carrier, the obligation to disclose transfers to offshore, or the creation of very much more demanding rules regarding the clauses used in the tax planning of large companies. It is true that we cannot prevent the existence of offshore outside our territory, but we can make it difficult, and very difficult, to use it. Secondly, it is urgent to set an example. And to set an example is to ensure that we have a State free of offshore. To set an example is to ensure that there is no money leaving Portugal to offshore that integrates the blacklist and serves to encompass corruption and money laundering practices. To set an example is also to put an end to abuse at the Madeira International Business Centre. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth feeding anathemas or embarking on blackmails that serve no more than manipulating the interests and concerns of Madeirans. What is at stake is not the existence of tax benefits to the installation of companies in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, what is at stake is the reported and unsettled abuse of this regime for fraud and opacity practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u12	Otherwise, the current regime of the Madeira International Business Centre (CINM) already provides for the creation of jobs as a condition for access to tax benefits. That is also what allows us to continue to say that the objective is to promote employment in the region, but it happens that these conditions are minimal and, in addition to being minimal, the law does not even guarantee compliance. I suggest you do a small research: look through the list of beneficiaries of Madeira's free zone and choose a « to the threshold », for example the first one who benefits from more tax exemptions in Madeira's offshore area. If you do this you will find a company called Saipem — I found it because it was the first on the list, simply — Maritime Trade, Lda Unipersonal Society, a subsidiary of the Italian giant with the same name. In Portugal, this company does not have a website, but the site exists for the parent company, and it contains a 2015 sustainability report, where it reports the number of jobs created : 4952 in Italy, 2307 in Angola, 426 in Congo, 4380 in Nigeria, 1094 in Azerbaijan, and the list continues, but as you are seeing, not a reference to Portugal or Madeira. What is found, instead, and it is necessary to search a little, are the names of the Italian directors of Saipem in Portugal. One of them, Mr. Giuseppe Sofra, who is in addition to manager and secretary of this company, manager of three more companies, all located in 3. o-H of 30 Arriaga Avenue. These are: LNG — Services and Project Management ; TSKJ — Engineering Services ; and TSKJ II — International Construction, Unipersonal Society. The search site has more than 130 references for this same address, the 3. o-H of Av 30. in Arriaga. in another quick research we reached the website of the African Development Bank, which tells us that these three companies, located in the offshore of Madeira and participants of the society that most tax benefits received in Madeira, were condemned by acts of corruption in Nigeria, in the negotiation of gas operating contracts between 1995 and 2004. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the story they just heard results from a two-hour research made last night, from the first name of the business list to which we are granting tax benefits, while there are moralist speeches and oaths that we learn the lesson about Panama's roles. What the Block proposes, as regards CINM, is so simply maintaining a tax benefit of IRC, but only for companies that create de facto employment, proven employment, full-time and with contract. Wasn't that, after all, the purpose of the Madeira regime? What we are still proposing is to end tax exemptions on distributed profits. If the aim is to encourage employment-generating companies, then there is no reason to give 'bulls' to their shareholders. Finally, we want more transparency and demand in the information on the International Centre for Madeira Affairs. If the PSD, CDS and PS members consider that what we propose is unreasonable, or even ideological nonsense, then it is because they have actually lost the ability to distinguish the legitimate economic activity from total abuse. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] And so, Mrs. Members, let us go back to the beginning: offshores are not legitimate regimes abused by unscrupulous people, they are the exponent of an unscrupulous economy which questions the legitimacy of democratic societies and the rules they freely constitute. Offshores are dangerous for economies and for democracies. That is why they certainly deserve the most ferocious fight unless, Mrs and Mrs. Members, political decision makers, legislators and rulers, prefer to continue to behave like dear Dori, always to be amazed again, always as if it were the first time: "Look! An offshore one! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u13	To request clarification from Mrs Mariana Mortágua, you have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Santos Silva. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are conducting a very important debate for the future of the financial system, the limitation of the use of tax havens, associated with the subject of the endless fight against tax evasion and escape, as well as money laundering. The PSD is in the right direction when it points to the achievement of this objective the recommendation to the Government for the anticipation of the transposition of European directives in the field of automatic exchange of tax information and the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering. in this sense, we must contextualize this proposal of the PSD while continuing what was good done in the previous legislation. I highlight the increase in numerous information exchange measures at international level, the increase in penalties for the most serious tax offences, the extension of tax limitation deadlines when undeclared income is involved in territories with privileged tax arrangements, the extension of the obligation to report accounts held abroad in the statement of income, involving a special taxation at the rate of 60 % on these transfers, and the obligation that payments exceeding €1000 are made by bank transfer or cheque. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate would not be complete without the Portuguese perceive in particular the positioning of the parties of the parliamentary agreement of governmental impact on issues so important to our future as contributors. She told us a year ago that Mrs Mariana Mortágua, concerned about these issues, in the face of the findings of the inquiry to BES, opened up quotes : « that only the public control of the bank can guarantee stability, efficiency and democratic control of the financial system ». Mrs. Member, I imagine how you'll feel. Does the honourable Member feel comfortable with the decision of the Council of Ministers yesterday to decide to change the number of administrators of the General Deposit Box to 19 administrators? [[PSD applause.]] Is the Council of Ministers not happy with this, still decided to increase the salaries of these administrators, and could the President of the General Deposit Board take up 46 000 euros of monthly income? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u15	Above all in a public bank where a public intervention is being prepared, with public money, worth 4 billion! May I ask what discharge is this, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members, when private banks received state money for loan, were forced to reduce the salaries of administrators, were prevented from paying prizes, were prevented from distributing dividends and had to reduce jobs. Each of the banks that asked for public aid lost about 1000 workers. I wonder what this is when you propose this increase of administrators' orders, above all when a public intervention is being prepared. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this draft resolution is a serious and responsible contribution that the PSD brings to this Parliament, in the hope that we can consensualise a set of strong and demanding measures. The seriousness and seriousness of these issues require a responsible and constructive stance, capable of generating solutions that convey security to economic agents and which at the same time contribute to the justice and cohesion of our national community. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u16	The Bureau did not interrupt Mr Deputies because we understand that the two minutes you used the most would be discounted in the overall PSD time. In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u17	Mr President, honourable Member, the history of the PSD, in these matters, is an IRC law that facilitated the tax planning of multinationals, are European reports that say so ; it is a tax amnesty that allowed Ricardo Salgado to repatriate much of the money that he received illegally outside the country ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u18	The Box? Oh, my God! Speak in the box!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u19	... is the non-transposition of directives, which are now recommended to be transposed but which could have been when you were in the government and were not. The history of the PSD in this matter is the abuse of Madeira offshore over the last decades. [[What about Box?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u20	And not only offshore, not just offshore, but the abuse of Madeira offshore over the last few decades. at the time of the committee of inquiry to BES, I defended — we have been defending here for months, in the Assembly of the Republic, and we continue to defend every time we discuss the bank —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u21	You're forgetting the Box!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u22	...that the public control of the bank is the best condition of democratic control over banks. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The greatest proof of this, Mr. Members, it is that when you move in the administration of the Box, or is something related to the Box, there is democratic debate in the Assembly of the Republic and when the private banks do what they fully understand and then be saved with public money, the debate takes place in the commission of inquiry, with the money of the taxpayers who have already served to save the handovers of private bankers... [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u23	...that you admire and protect so much! Mr. Carlos Santos Silva was let go and, in the interest of finding a contradiction, or somehow finding a pregnancy, which he will not be able to provoke, he did not read the statements in which the Left Block opposes the increase of wages in the General Deposit Box, nor did he even read the bill that the Block made to limit the salaries of public administrations, including the administration of the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u24	It's nothing like that! You're not answering!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u25	The reason why it's so difficult to cause embarrassment, ladies. Members, it is because we have no inconsistency in this matter and, unlike the PSD, we have work on this subject, projects presented on the salaries of the managers of public enterprises, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u26	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u27	I'm done now, Mr. President. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I was concerned about the debate that we will want to have now, instead of finding scapegoats and escapes to not discuss what we have to discuss: that laws we present and we approve to combat the abusive tax planning that you have allowed, with the laws that you have approved during the four years in which you were in government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u28	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all know, combating national tax elections by definition alone is not enough and it becomes inefficient. This is something on which we all realize — I think it is possible here in Parliament — that legislation at European level is much more efficient to prevent the creation of slippers. For the debate that takes place here today in plenary, the PSD presented two initiatives, an unprecedented green card proposing European legislation to increase transparency in financial transactions, but also a draft resolution which aims to anticipate the transposition of two Community directives, one in the field of automatic exchange of tax information and another in the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, which includes, up to this point, several measures proposed here by the PS, BE and the CFP. The Green Card is a new European instrument that can be used by national parliaments to recommend political initiatives to the European Union. To that end, it is enough for 18 national parliaments to agree on this matter and to subscribe to the proposal originally put forward by a Parliament. That's what we want. It is a recent instrument, and also so far, never used by the Assembly of the Republic, but we are very pleased and, above all, pleased that the Socialist Party and the CDS have also resorted to the same instrument to propose European legislation, because they also realized that only at European level it is possible to have a more effective fight against this kind of fraud. It is therefore possible and desirable to find a consensus here today, in order to prepare a joint proposal to present a single green card from the Portuguese Parliament to the other national parliaments, in an area where we are increasingly aware that the principle of subsidiarity makes all the sense. This is a matter where European legislation can produce a more effective result than Member States, each in their own way, to legislate on this matter. But this Green Card also calls for an effort of parliamentary diplomacy, not only here but also in the 28 Member States, which we propose to carry out with the help of Mr President of the Republic, in order to convince the other national parliaments to subscribe to the proposal put forward by Portugal. from the green card presented by us, I would like to highlight two points which I consider innovative and essential. The first advocates the presentation by the European Union of a legislative initiative aimed at increasing control over all financial transactions between the European Union and clearly more favourable tax regimes by registering and tracking them. I recall that this was one of the recommendations of the final report of the Research/Investigation Committee in the case of BES/GES. But it was also clear there that only this dissuasive tracking would be effective if it were done at European level and never unilaterally, through a single country. thus, we believe that this will have a tremendous dissuasive impact of resorting to this type of escape to hide money of illicit origin and, above all, to make or promote tax escape. I would also like to draw attention to this point, which has to do with the compulsory publication by the Member States of all tax agreements concluded with companies, the so-called tax rollings, which have become known to the Luxleaks case. in this sense, it is the only proposal to combat a matter of concern to the Member States, which occurs in more than one Member State of the European Union and which has come to the public square with the scandal that occurred in Luxembourg. I am convinced that Portugal is an exemplary country in this matter and in this Parliament. It is a country that has lessons to teach the rest of Europe, both for our past and for our present. Portugal was a pioneer in the adoption of many measures aimed at combating fraud and tax evasion. Portugal was also a pioneer in registering these types of transactions. I sincerely believe that, in this and other areas, it will be possible here, around a parliamentary consensus, to find a strong proposal, an effective proposal, which leads the European Union to legislate in a way that can combat tax fraud, transfer of illicit money to tax havens and, above all, bring tax justice to citizens and to the European Union. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the PSD does not receive lessons from anyone about combating tax evasion. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] The PSD has a history of which he is proud. The PSD, when it was in the government and in the opposition, has a coherent past, a border history and, above all, has no past of demagogy. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] It was with the PSD that the biggest reforms were made in this area and that, fortunately, some of them were even continued and deepened by governments of other parties. Portugal is an example and Portugal will always be a leading country in combating tax evasion. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u30	Mr Vitalino Canas, from the PS, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Filipe Marques, I would like to begin by saying that the spirit that presides over the PSD initiatives presented here is the spirit that we share, in order to change the paradigm of the fight against aggressive fiscal planning and tax election, to change the paradigm so that it will have a European level. Therefore, also our initiatives discussed here today will go in that same direction and I believe that there are good conditions for us to arrive at a joint project of this House of the Republic that can be defended at the level of the European Union. We, PS, understand that at present the fight at European level is not enough and the fight that can be done at Portuguese level will not be so either, because Portugal does not have the influence that the United States has, for example, when they impose on the rest of the world initiatives such as FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act ) and therefore we will have to take this to European level. We also want to start a so-called green card, which can at this time be a way not only to achieve objectives in combating fraud and tax evasion but also to take national parliaments to the centre of European political debate and to the centre of European issues. But, Mr President, I would also like to leave a few references here to the draft resolutions that bring us and ask you a question, because it seems to me that these draft resolutions reveal some technical inaccuracies and also some inconsistencies. From now on, I believe that the draft resolutions, particularly the first one, are relatively outdated, ignoring initiatives that have already taken place at European and also at national level, initiatives by the Portuguese Government itself. In addition, it reveals some imbalance, because it is a project that has a preamble to defend greater information sharing at European level and then, somewhere, the issue of fighting offenders arises. But these are issues that we will be able to resolve at the level of the debate in the committee. There is a question where the PSD itself has already realized that it has made a mistake. in the initial resolution it was proposed that the European Commission should be recommended to promote and monitor the transposition of the amendment into the directive. This is not for the European Commission, it is for the national institutions, in particular the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, but I believe that the PSD has already noticed its delay, its inaccuracy and made a new draft resolution in which it recommends not to the European Commission but to the Portuguese Government this transposition of the directive. But, honourable Member, and now my question comes, I would like to understand exactly what the PSD is worth because the PSD « Mr. Hyde », three months ago, voted against a proposal which was included in the State Budget Bill of Legislative Authorisation to the Government for transposition of amendments to Directive ( EU ) 2001 / 16, Article 188. the State Budget, which had the vote against the PSD and also the CDS-PP. Well, the PSD, now « Dr. Jekyll" says that, after all, the transposition of this Directive must be done even more urgently than is provided for in the Directive itself. What's the PSD worth? It is the PSD of the vote on Article 188. that of the State Budget or is the PSD that is now running, say: « No, no, we must immediately transpose the Directive. It is urgent that we cannot even allow the deadline to pass.' I hope that the true PSD will be the latter, which is the one with which the PS will be able to reach agreement on these measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u32	You have the floor to answer, Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u33	Mr President, Mr Vitalino Canas, there is something I assure you and I would like to tell you: the PSD that is here today is what you were here in 2004, when you first approved a black list of tax havens for Portugal, is the same PSD that kept Panama on this black list, still recently, when many countries have retreated and changed their opinion and therefore will always be that European PSD. What I hope is that the Socialist Party, in the European context, is increasingly Dr. Vitalino Canas and not those Eurocétics who now take care of the Socialist Party. But above all, what I would like, Mr President, was to focus this consensus. This consensus seems fundamental to me and, above all, I think it is important for us to be able to achieve strength and effectiveness in this green card that we can unite European political families, so that it will succeed, so that Europe has an initiative once again with a Portuguese brand and that this consensus in the search for tax evasion can make history in this Parliament, taking into account the most recent times. Mr President, with regard to the State budget, you are well aware of the position of the PSD and the PSD does not regret a second of its positions. What I think is important is to look forward and also to seeking, in the Socialist Party, a more Europeanist, more constructive Socialist Party. I end by saying just one more thing that seems relevant to me. These directives which we want to anticipate today are directives which were adopted even during the time of the PSD Government and now I see the other parties who are in power to try to speed up the entry into force of measures already provided for in that directive. Therefore, greater consensus is impossible and I only hope that we have the courage and ability to assume that together we are stronger, by a more friendly Portugal of people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u34	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to put an end to the ban on tax havens. Those who, in Portuguese society, have and can more, use tax havens to escape tax payments, implying the annual loss of billions of euros of tax revenue. We need to put an end to this swing. This is the objective of the six bills that the CFP brings here today the debate. Portugal must signal politically unequivocally its determination in the fight against tax havens, adopting legislation that prevents or makes it difficult to use these territories for tax evasion and tax fraud, but also for criminal practices of the most varied types and for the creation of complex schemes and networks of companies that hinder or even prevent the intervention of supervisors or judicial entities. Whenever there is a scandal related to the use of tax havens, such as the recent Panama Papers, some voices will soon appear to defend that if such use occurs in accordance with existing legal standards there is no problem. Everything would allegedly be summed up in a legitimate use of a legal possibility. But the truth is that the use of tax havens to reduce due taxes is ethically reprehensible and socially unacceptable. We cannot accept that a small number of citizens and businesses, precisely those with higher incomes or more profits, have legal instruments that allow them to use tax havens to steal from an adequate tax contribution to the wealth they have or the profits they generate. But tax havens are not the only territories that promote the parking of fortunes, the escape and tax evasion and the bleeding of potential budgetary resources from States. There are countries, regions and territories, including in the European Union, which, not usually identified as tax havens, also offer high tax advantages to economic and financial groups and holders of great fortunes, allowing them not to pay taxes in their countries of origin. In Portugal, for example, almost all PSI 20 companies use this option to obtain tax and financial advantages. According to the Tax Authority, between 2010 and 2014, around EUR 10 billion was transferred from Portugal to tax havens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u36	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u37	Since this value refers only to transfers made through banks, the actual value of exits to tax havens is certainly much higher. This is an emergency bleeding. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to put an end to the current tax havens and prevent the creation of new ones, a concerted action at the international level is essential, but this cannot be an excuse for nothing being done at the national level. The various PCP bills currently under discussion change the conditions under which a country, region or territory can be considered as a clearly more favourable tax regime; define the terms in which companies are considered to be resident for tax purposes, ensuring that their income is taxed in Portugal; prohibit or limit commercial or professional relations and occasional transactions with entities based in tax havens; increase the tax rates of financial operations addressed to entities subject to a clearly more favourable tax regime, as well as exacerbate income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax regimes within IRC and IRS. These are proposals that combat the unacceptable phenomenon of tax evasion and tax fraud using tax havens. They are therefore proposals that contribute to a fairer and more appropriate taxation to the development needs of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u38	For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Aggressive tax planning, tax fraud and avoidance, tax evasion, erosion of tax bases and money laundering are at the target of the 16 bills and the five draft resolutions that are under discussion. As the debate today will make an advanced contribution to more fiscal justice, it is important to recognize that this path has already been initiated by the current government and by the majority who support it, although always relying on the resistance and opposition of the PSD and CDS. The State Budget Act for 2016 includes a standard establishing the obligation to submit a special report by large multinational groups. PSD and CDS voted against. The State budget also contains a legislative authorization for Portugal to join the international system for the exchange of financial information for taxpayers. PSD and CDS voted against. The State Budget Act for 2016 also provides that for the first time, the Tax Authority's Large Contributors Unit will be accompanied by large single taxpayers, holders of high wealth or high incomes, with greater possibilities of resorting to complex tax planning schemes. PSD and CDS opted for abstention. PSD and CDS have ruled for four years and have not been able to make substantial contributions in these areas, but also in these areas social-democracy has lost for neoliberalism. The PS welcomes this debate, views it with full responsibility, submits proposals and assumes its full positions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS proposes a ban on the issue of securities to the carrier, whether they are titrated or written. The non-identification of the holder of shares, bonds, units of participation in investment funds and others before the issuer is one of the critical characteristics, in particular by anonymity and opacity. The Financial Action Group on the Blanking of Capitals advises countries to take measures to prevent the misuse of actions to the carrier. in the same line, Article 10. Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing provides that Member States should take measures to prevent the misuse of actions to the carrier. We propose a ban on the issue of securities to the carrier and also propose a ban on the transmission of securities to the carrier six months after the entry into force of this proposal. Another proposal by the Socialist Party for this debate is to prohibit cash payments of more than € 3000. The absence of cash payment limits in the context of economic activities has been a major obstacle to the identification of the origin and origin of the funds underlying them and their recipients. The General Tax Law already obliges financial flows associated with transactions of a business nature — I repeat, of a business nature — to be made through bank accounts, restricting cash payments to a value equal to or less than EUR 1000. It is intended to go further, extrapolating the nature and scope of this proposal the domain of taxation, corresponding first to a general prohibition of trading, in cash, all and any legal business involving values greater than € 3000, safeguarding, of course, situations which, by their nature, should deserve special treatment. The limit for cash payments in Spain is 2500 €, in France it is 3000 €, in Italy it is 3000 € and in Greece it is 1500 €. There is therefore no reason why Portugal should not be aligned with the best international practices in this area. The procedures for the identification and registration of effective beneficiaries of transactions or transactions are also subject to proposals. In this respect we know the Government's objective to present a legislative initiative before the beginning of 2. the legislative session, in the context of the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849, related to the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, the work of which follows. in our opinion, the proposals that fall on the actual beneficiary will find better time in the process of the specialty relating to the transposition of the Directive, so that the proposals are duly considered, analysed and discussed. Another group of proposals intends to limit and prohibit payments from national banking or financial institutions to offshore, cooperative and non-cooperating entities respectively. The Portuguese tax system already has an extended set of defensive mechanisms and anti-abuse rules which penalise tax payments made to persons or entities based in countries, territories and regions with preferential, clearly more favourable taxation schemes, disincentivising them. For example, we highlight the application of aggravated autonomous rates, the non-assignment of tax benefits to persons, entities or operations involving offshore and the non-acceptability of deductibility of expenses incurred with persons or entities located there. The elimination of any and any offshore payments in an isolated and unilateral way would not only make any significant contribution to the resolution of the underlying problem as would result only in the geographical relocation and subsequent channelling of these payments to other foreign financial institutions, to the detriment of the national banking and financial system. The proposal that conditions the tax benefits of Madeira's free zone does not take the support of the Socialist Party. The different tax benefits frameworks were subject to formal approval by the European Commission under the State aid scheme and recognition by the OECD of its unharmed nature. On the other hand, Madeira's free zone does not contain any blacklists, including the OECD lists. However, we must not fail to recognize that the corporate and governance model of Madeira's free zone, whose concession contract was signed in 1985, should be revised, as we must not fail to recognize the need to strengthen the monitoring of compliance with the allocation of tax benefits and to introduce more transparency in the information regulation between the free zone and the tax authority. It is in this sense that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group intends to present a legislative initiative at the beginning of the next session. with regard to the mandatory annual publication of the total value and destination of transfers and sending of funds to privileged countries, territories and regions, the PS will vote in favour since this proposal meets the practice adopted by this Government. The Government has recently approved the new model of declaration, promoting the extension of the reporting duties of transfers to jurisdictions with privileged taxation, covering remittances and the activity of branches located outside Portuguese territory or non-resident entities with which there is a special relationship. The Government has also promoted the disclosure of statistical data on offshore transfers over the past five years and the data for 2015 will be disclosed after July of this year, the date on which the obligation to send to the Tax Authority is met. We also support the proposal that changes the conditions under which a country, region or territory may be considered to be clearly more favourable tax systems, and we also support the proposal that seeks to exacerbate the IRS rates on income and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax regimes. We subscribe to the proposed reference that leads to a clearly more favourable tax regime where the IRC actually paid in offshore is equal to or less than 60 % of IRC which would be due if the entity were resident in Portuguese territory. As regards the increase in the autonomous rate of IRS to 50 %, based on the current marginal rate of IRS of 63 %, we believe that this rate is justified by the fact that the current autonomous rate of 35 % has been defined on the basis of a marginal rate at the time of 40 %. Finally, we disagree with the proposals for aggravation in IRC and the taxation of income tax and transfers involving clearly more favourable tax regimes. In addition to the Portuguese tax system, we have an extended set of defensive mechanisms and anti-abuse standards which fiscally penalise payments made to persons or entities based in countries, territories and regions with preferential tax regimes, clearly more favourable, we believe that these proposals would have a negative impact on foreign trade and would certainly affect foreign investment. Mr. President, the country needs more fiscal justice. Tax justice is a key factor in combating economic imbalances and social inequalities. The Government and the parliamentary majority that supports it have contributed to more fiscal justice. We are sure that today's debate will make an even greater contribution. The PS came to this debate with an interventional, serious and responsible attitude. Here are our contributions, here are our positions taken in a clear and objective way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u40	Mr João Paulo Correia, the Bureau records the entry for clarification by Mr Duarte Pacheco. You have the floor, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u41	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, I begin by welcoming the fact that they have recognized what has already been done in the fight against fraud, tax evasion and the special treatment of these regions of tax havens if we can call them, and this has happened in the past with the government led by the Social Democratic Party. It is important that this is mentioned here and that it is mentioned by you today who have governmental responsibilities. I am sure you are recalling the international agreement, particularly with Switzerland, which allowed the tax authority to have access to much more information than the one I had before. I am sure you are thinking about the multilateral tax information exchange convention that has been established between the Portuguese State and more than 110 countries and that has allowed the tax authority to have access to more information. Decree that you are thinking of the favourable vote that Portugal and the Government led by Passos Coelho gave to the adoption of the directives we are discussing here today, at European level. I am sure that you are also thinking about what happened in terms of amending domestic legislation, in particular the increase in penalties for more serious tax offences, in addition to 15 years of tax prescription, the extension of the obligation to communicate accounts held abroad when reporting income, only to give a few examples. This, Mr President, proves a sense of responsibility, which has caused someone with a more moderate perspective within the Socialist Party to bring these matters to us. However, Mr President, there is something we need to ask, because this perspective does not mean that everything is done, that there is a lot to be done. I give you the example of the transposition of the 2015 Directive. If it is true that it was signed and had the favourable vote of Portugal and the Government led by Passos Coelho, the reality is that more months have passed with the Government led by Antonio Costa than with the previous government. It is therefore normal to ask why the delay in its application in domestic legislation and to make this recommendation. It is only natural that this should be done. Second note: it is also natural to wonder why in some matters, particularly money payments, the Socialist Party has a reading that can be more radical than that of the Left Block itself, making it possible to overcome the Left Block itself on the left. however, this is something that must unite us, because the fight against fraud and tax evasion must unite us all, not in a unilateral logic, but in European space and using Europe's weight in international economic transactions, so that, within international economic rules, what is our perspective and European perspective can increasingly be adopted. If so, we are available to work together on what can be useful for the country and for Europe. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u42	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u43	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, I am grateful for the question you have raised. Mr. Deputies, I was really thinking about how incoherent the PSD is. It is not enough to ask for all these in favour of combating aggressive tax planning and combating fraud and tax evasion, concrete measures must be put forward. And when the PSD and the CDS were tested in the State budget for 2016, they opted for the vote against or for abstention, in particular in a fundamental measure aimed at the Tributary Authority to go along with the large singular taxpayers, those who are holders of great fortunes. in this regard, we did not count on the CDS or PSD. There were two types of approach to this debate. An approach which, as the Socialist Party here has done, is doing and will continue to do in this debate, recognises that the European multilateral framework is, above all, the way to combat more effectively and efficiently all these problems added to fraud, tax evasion and money laundering, but we also do not escape from the presentation of concrete measures that can be introduced at national level. Therefore, we have introduced two draft laws, one relating to the limitation of cash payments and the other concerning the prohibition of issue and transmission of securities, i.e. actions, obligations, etc. To the carrier. But there was another approach, which was the one that the PSD and the CDS, especially the PSD, adopted for this debate, saying that all this is only solved in the European framework,... [[PSD protests.]] ... and then they did not take it, they did not have the courage to present concrete measures in this debate, as your responsibility would be. Once again they were inconsistent, as they were inconsistent in the State Budget for 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u44	I should have read our initiatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u45	To demystify the issue of cash payments, I repeat what I said recently in the gallery: the PS presents a proposal to prohibit cash payments above EUR 3000. In Spain, the limit is EUR 2500 ; in France, it is EUR 3000 ; in Italy, it is EUR 3000 and in Greece, it is EUR 1500. What we have seen here is that we are following the line of best practices, especially from neighbouring countries, with which we have the most commercial relationship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u46	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this matter we are discussing today there is a fundamental principle of justice. For everyone to have a fairer taxation it is necessary that we all pay what is due, and if we all pay what is due, if they all do, the door is opened so that in the future everyone can pay a little less and we have a really fairer taxation. It is in this context that the fight is inserted both for offshore, for tax escape and for tax evasion, for tax election and for aggressive tax planning. It is that the question here is about justice and equity. When we speak in offshore and say that the problem is that of surprise or surprise, it is important here to clarify that it is not, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The problem is not that of surprise or surprise, everyone knows that there are offshore and we are discussing ways of fighting, certainly, for more than 20 years. Therefore, the problem is not of surprise or surprise, it is of efficacy and ability to fight them. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And this is where the questions must be asked. And why? Because we are talking, yes, about very sophisticated forms and processes and, in many cases, we are also talking about jurisdictions in other countries. That is also why this matter lends itself — and it lends itself well — to demagogy, because it does not cease to be extraordinary that those who greatly appreciate the rigor and the demand for private banking — and very well! — are also those who, in relation to the public bank, have little requirement and are more concerned with appointing managers. Nor does it fail to be extraordinary that it should be, with this degree of demagogy, which, on the one hand, criticizes and comes to say that the offshore of Madeira, for example, should not exist and, on the other hand, an initiative in which the offshore of Madeira continues to exist. He's nice, he likes, on the continent, some and he likes, on Madeira, others! [[CDS-PP applause.]] But, in reality, very little solves, unless, perhaps, an easy vote hunt. And that is how some projects should be understood, such as those covering financial transactions. Because if we are discussing a project from a European point of view, for example, I absolutely agree. But I would like to remember that we are all in a space where there is freedom of capital trading. If we impose restrictions or if we simply prohibit these transactions in Portugal, for those who want to do so is very simple: it is only going to do so to a country next to it within the European Union. That's why, sirs. Members, who talked so much about beating their feet, who came to beat their feet in this matter too, in the European Union. Because, yes, the cause is fair, but it is at European level. Since we speak a lot in numbers, I would also like to speak in numbers, because I heard great statements here today saying that they were transferred to offshore between 2009 and 2014 more than 10 billion euros. It's true! They forgot to say that, of these 10 billion, 3000 million were transferred in 2010 and in 2011 4600 million. There is an abrupt fall in 2012, passing to 991, in 2013 to about 1000 million and in 2014 to 374 million. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are we satisfied with this? Don't! It should be a lot less. In fact, in an ideal world, it would be nothing. Now to spread reality and pretend that in the previous government there was an increase when, in fact, there was a sudden fall in the transfer of funds to offshore is that frankly it is not an honest way to discuss this issue. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As it is also not honest to speculate that, for example between 2007 and 2013, the value of the capital held by Portuguese in tax havens was reduced by 83 %: from 19 billion to 3000 million. As, for example, it is not honest to speculate that the value of reported income from bank accounts in countries with which we agreed to exchange information grew 110 % between 2010 and 2013. In fact, this year or last year, in 2015, there was an exchange of information with 110 countries, which is more or less twice what existed four years ago. And this, Mr. João Paulo Correia, are not these, are realities and are facts: it is good not to forget them. It is also important to remember, when we discuss this matter, and because I have heard accusations here that we are doing little, leaving something very clear, that in order to fight offshore people effectively, we need a European action. But that does not mean that there are no things that can be done now, here and now, in Portugal. And surely the CDS is willing to build these consensus. This is the case, for example, with regard to cash payments, which we also have a project on, because we do not want to lose a change that has been made and that has to do with the obligation to circulate all transactions of business bank accounts above 1000 € there. I remember it was 9700 € in the time of the Socialist Party. That's not thesis either. It's the facts. This is also the case, for example, with regard to the securities to the carrier. It is important to realize—and the CDS project is in this sense—that the securities to the carrier are not only issued in Portugal: there are securities to the carrier issued in other jurisdictions. And if they are traded in Portugal, we also want to know if there is anything more possible to control their ownership. That is why a draft resolution is presented and not a draft law, because we want to go further than just produce a system in which, as it is envisaged in a Community directive, progresses in Portugal, but continues to issue securities to the carrier and trade them, only on the basis of other jurisdictions. Finally, it is also important from the point of view of the European Union to hit the foot. It makes no sense, for example, that Portugal has been of the very few countries that kept Panama on its blacklist, while many other countries, with which we have free movement of capital, have removed Panama from its blacklist. We want to have a greater word to say and we want a European Union in which this is simply not possible. In short, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS in this area is available for consensus. We only hope that both the government and the parties that support it will be available for consensus, because for soundbits it has already been realized that they are. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u48	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u49	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is not worth trying to say or try to pass the idea that everyone in this Chamber thinks the same about offshore, about the measures to combat them or, even, that we are all willing to do the same for this to happen. Mr Duarte Pacheco recently said a phrase that somehow shows what you really think about this. Mr Duarte Pacheco said that the PS proposal against cash payments, which imposes a limit of €3,000 instead of €10,000, such as the Left Block, is a proposal that goes beyond the Block on the left. What does this mean, according to Mr Duarte Pacheco's logic? It means that if you go over the Block on the left and it is left to limit cash payments to 3000 €. But for this reason, what is right is that there is no limit to cash payments and, therefore, there can be any kind of cash payment, even if it favours corruption and whitening. And this idea, which was not mine, which was said by Mr Duarte Pacheco, shows the difference from how we think about this. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u50	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u51	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the PSD wrote the report, and the CDS approved it from the Committee of Inquiry into BES which had many criticisms about offshore issues and lack of transparency and which had concrete recommendations. The PSD and CDS should be asked how many of these recommendations have been transformed into projects in a consistent manner consistent with what was said and approved by the Committee of Inquiry. The truth is that not only has there been no transformation as the proposals that the Block has brought on this matter have still been sucked down. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And I'm not talking about bank regulation. I'm talking about transparency and offshore use. Mrs Depute, speaking in two pesos and two measures, and responding directly to the question you have raised about the offshore of Madeira, the CDS in Madeira also signs an opinion which says that ending the headlines to the carrier is the end of the market. That is to say, it gives a negative opinion at the end of the titles to the carrier, but, here on the continent, it already says that it is willing to discuss the issue of the titles to the carrier. So there are many different positions and there are for all tastes. But I would like to challenge the honourable Member to be consistent with what she said in the rostrum. If the Member of Parliament said that the Left Block was not proposing the end of the offshore—and we continue to defend it in many cases, in fact, we wanted to bring here a project that does not literally end with the offshore, but that requires the offshore to end hypocrisy and to do what it says it wants to do, that is, if it says that it is necessary to create a job, then create this job with contract and supervision — if, as you say, we are not finishing off the offshore, please explain to me why it is because it is against this project. And why isn't she in favor of a project that does what the CDS says she wants to do, which is using a Madeira tax benefit regime to create jobs? It was precisely to catch this inconsistency that this project was presented and, by the way, it was easy to catch it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u52	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the question and, in this case, it is a double thanks, because I have the opportunity not only to answer the questions that have been asked to me but also, apparently, to the questions that are asked to Mr Duarte Pacheco. In any case, I'm not sure what to represent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u54	It wasn't a question, it was just a use!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u55	I would like to make the following clear: in relation to cash payments, the CDS has its own project, which maintains the current regime, of the bank accounts of companies and provides for the limit of 10 000 €. If we are open or available for other limits? Absolutely. It seems to me that the important thing in this matter is the principle and not the limit itself. With regard to the various proposals relating to the fight against escape, avoidance and tax evasion, I think that I have mentioned a wide range of figures that speak for you about what the CDS and PSD did when they were in government. With regard to projects and the free zone of Madeira, I simply said the following: Mrs. Deputy made several statements in the gallery about a research on the Internet, and then pointed out her project as the one that would solve all the problems. I just pointed out the obvious. That is to say, your project has to do with job creation, it has nothing to do with any of the facts you spoke about in that rostrum and it was just that contradiction that I referred to. If it's been uncomfortable, I'm sorry, but it's reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u56	Then vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u57	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a matter of the greatest importance and a matter that has contributed in a very intense and very clear way to the immorality and the tax injustice that is installed among us. It is not the first time that the discussion focuses on tax havens, that the Greens once again express their total opposition to the existence of absolutely untouchable areas, where financial supervision does not enter, where judicial cooperation is at the door and where the States themselves prefer to pretend that there is no or that, then, it is all right, that it is part of the system. On several occasions in this plenary we have had the opportunity to express our position on this matter. Tax havens are the image of the injustice that reigns in the system. This is a reality that just doesn't see who doesn't want it. We already know a lot about the existence of tax havens, including within the European Union, and we know a lot about what they serve and who they serve. For a long time now, we know that tax havens are only used to create and host fictitious companies where money is generated from some undeserving and even criminal origin. We also know that people who use tax havens have as their aim not to pay taxes, to escape payment of their tax obligations and to hide money, often from unclear business, from dirty business. We also know that money circulating in offshore is money stolen from the economy and taxpayers, and who uses these mechanisms are the great fortunes and the most powerful. We know all this and it's been a long time. We know that people who work, people with less income are obliged to pay their taxes, while a minority, money lords, suspects of custom, enjoy an almost divine privilege, that of not paying, getting rid of that responsibility which is to pay taxes like the others. It is a consented cheating and, at the same time, absolutely immoral. According to data from Banco de Portugal, from 2014 to 2015, Portuguese money placed in offshore increased by 13 %. We are talking about almost EUR 10 billion. But the wealth of undeclared or unsupervised national businesses or citizens could reach some EUR 70 billion. There is therefore a need for a serious fight against this fraud that allows a few to live in tax havens, for most people to live in a real and painful fiscal hell. But in addition to this injustice and this tax immorality, it is still necessary to take into account that tax havens have been the stage of some of the events of the crisis we are experiencing today, such as bank bankruptcy or large-scale fraud. It should be borne in mind that these activities are often associated with the clandestine economy, tax evasion, tax fraud, organised crime, money laundering and sometimes many practices that weaken global stability, such as the drug business and even the arms business. But worse, if we bear in mind that this real casino economy is inseparable from the worsening social inequalities, poverty and unsustainability of the economic model that is taking place in the world. Here we recall the scandalous processes of BCP, BPP, or BPN, which indicated practices related to based companies, exactly in tax havens, and whose invoice ended up being, in some cases, paid by Portuguese taxpayers, the payers of the custom. That is why the Greens defend the end of tax havens. And if it is true that a government cannot, by itself, impose the end of tax havens outside its borders, it is also true that any government can and should have an obligation to channel efforts with the other States and international organizations it is part of in seeking measures and finding solutions to end tax havens. Therefore, on what is currently under discussion, although understanding that the fairer would definitely be to end tax havens, we consider it imperative that at least measures be sought to counter this immoral injustice, this casino economy, in particular, that there is a tax limitation, but not only of the movement of capital transfers, which continue to ostensibly escape the tax burden and, as if little, still constitute, as it is known, movements of a speculative nature over our economy, substantially weakening the financial bases of the State. In view of what has been said, The Greens will vote in favour of all the initiatives that, in our view, can contribute to this noble purpose: to walk in a sense and to end tax havens, to walk in a sense and to end this monstrous theft committed, because the law must be the same for all and no one can be above the law for more money that he has, because the laws cannot be bought. Certainly, the laws cannot be part of the business and the market. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u59	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The key objective of the creation of Madeira's free zone was to capture new investments aimed at economic and social development. However, economic and social development does not seem possible without creating jobs. It is precisely this challenge that responds to this initiative of the Left Block: creating jobs in the region of the country which presents the highest unemployment rate, at present. This Left Block initiative increases the demand for job creation from one to six jobs and makes it clear that this job should be full-time and occupied by residents in Madeira. And this for profit companies up to EUR 2, EUR 73 million, which corresponds to a job created per half a million euros of profit. Considering the average wage of €900, this annual staff charge would represent less than 4 % of the profit. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you ask companies in the free zone to spend less than 4 % of their earnings on salaries to obtain the tax benefits that are available there and if, therefore, the free zone is no longer competitive, is it no longer interesting, after all, what is the reality of the free zone? What's the point? What companies are you trying to attract? It will certainly not be to create jobs and develop the regional economy; it aims to attract only tax companies that summarize their presence at the tax address. The bosses of Madeira, represented by ACIF ( Funchal Trade and Industrial Association ), spoke against what we easily understand. They do not want job creation because unemployment allows them to pay lower wages. [[PSD protests.]] The Journal of Madeira once again took over the role of the official propaganda body of the regime and came to consider this initiative with épitets as « lack of common sense », « capricho », « populism ». Now, a company applying 4 % of its profit in wages to create quality jobs is populism, is it a whim of the Left Block? Oh, my God! The President of the Regional Government also considered this amendment an ideological nonsense. This is not a serious approach, it is not a serious discussion about Madeira's International Business Centre, it is not intended to clarify the propagate importance it has for the regional economy. These reactions aim only to thicken the smoke cloud that involves the free zone, create confusion and hide what really happens there. The project of the Left Block does not radically alter the requirements for the installation of companies in the free zone. It is a modest amendment: where a job was required, we began to demand six. But we also did not see that there had been any discussion or any alternative proposal of the type: 'we will demand only three or four jobs instead of six'. Don't! None of that. Just a spook, the old discourse of the enemies of Madeira. These primary, exacerbated reactions obviously do not take into account the content of the initiative, but only its origin. If the project comes from the Block, it is bad and we must vote against. As I said recently, the President of the Regional Government considered this amendment a nonsense and I will recall here statements he made on April 30, 2015, in a seminar subordinate to the theme of Regional Taxation and Competitiveness. at the time, Miguel Albuquerque proclaimed that Madeira would become the center of world trade — nothing less than that! — on the basis of the development of the free zone, the Transatlantic Treaty on Trade and the exploitation of shale gas. With the conjugation of these three factors, Madeira would be the center of world trade. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, where does this nonsense lie, and what is taking over the President of the Regional Government? Earlier, the goal was to make Madeira the Singapore of the Atlantic; now, nothing less than the center of world trade. The sky is the limit! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u61	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Rubina Berardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulino Ascenção asked where the nonsense is going. The nonsense lives in images that have to do with comic films about fish that suffer from amnesia...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u64	... and I, because I think that those who suffer from amnesia are Mr Paulino Ascension, I recommend you to make a trip to Madeira to check the jobs that the International Business Centre has already created and which ensures. I stress that there are 1600 service companies that are active at the International Business Centre, 46 industrial companies, 399 boats, and that this bill of the Left Block simply aims to eliminate, so I suggest that you look, in your eyes, these people, these families.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u66	I would also like to know where the option presented by the Left Block is for tax revenue determined through the International Centre for Madeira Affairs. What is the alternative that the Left Block suggests? What is it? [[PSD applause.]] I have a suspicion about the alternative the Left Block suggests. It is the asphyxiation of Madeira's tax revenue, it is the asphyxiation of instruments proper to the Autonomous Region of Madeira in order to remain fully dependent on the State budget so as not to have its own initiatives. There are already instruments of the International Business Centre that guarantee job creation—in fact, Madeira and the Canary Islands are the only regimes that have this clarification on jobs. That is, the Left Block ends up wanting to push companies that are based in Madeira to, yes, real offshore and real tax havens. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u67	Are you working for these financial markets, Member of the Commission? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u68	You have the floor to answer Mr Paulino Ascenção.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u69	Mr President, I look forward with enthusiasm to this proposal for a guided visit to companies in the free zone which create jobs. I'll be very happy to meet them if they really exist. We have to combine. I must say that this Left Block project does not alter the rules of the companies that are already installed, which are already operating. So don't mess up the tax revenue. There is an increase in the demand for job creation so that the free zone can fulfil the purpose it chaired for its creation, which has been there for 30 years. However, when we look at the reality, there is a very high level of unemployment — 22 000 unemployed over the past 30 years. After all, what contribution did he make, what was the investment, what was the seed, with multiplier effect? Where is this impact on the diversification of Madeira's economy? Is it capable of indicating a model company? Recently, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic visited Madeira and were taken to visit a company, ACIN, in Ribeira Brava, which is not a company in the free zone. Therefore, there is no model, no reference to show those who visit us. What the project of the Left Block is to create conditions, create more requirements so that companies that install themselves are not only ghost companies, so that the free zone is not just a tax prostitution area, which will only benefit from lower taxation, but that make investment, create jobs, make an effective contribution to development, investments that have a reproductive effect. And that, until now, you haven't seen each other. The exacerbated reaction of ACIF and the Regional Government shows that the strategy does not go through, there is no intention, but, yes, to maintain a space only for the enjoyment of more favourable tax conditions that will not have any future impact. When the conditions of this regime are completed, the impact on the regional economy is completely emptied, and tax revenue, one day, will end because it cannot be expected that the regime will be permanently renewed. So how is Madeira supposed to stay again? in poverty, with unemployment, with emigration only as an alternative to its population. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u70	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are billions and billions of euro transactions worldwide that use different lower and more competitive tax jurisdictions. These transactions, these investments and these entrepreneurs make choices every day looking, of course, at a huge array of possibilities for this world outside and also for this Europe within. Therefore, the way we look at and appreciate this issue of the more competitive offshore and fiscal jurisdictions must be with the right objectivity, with proper realism, in order to defend our interests, the interests of the country. The problem of fiscally very competitive jurisdictions and their impacts is obviously a reality that we have to take into account. A new global order is needed to regulate this issue, which can minimize the evil effects. The country must be committed to this complex issue, but it must defend an approach within the European framework, as the Socialist Party has always defended, which allows for a global solution. I hope, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, other than my country, who on the altar of an understandable political dialectic at European and global level, but unacceptable in the national framework, which is available to sacrifice Madeira's free zone for nothing. Mr President, I have a strong and hopeful hope that my country will not make Madeira's free zone a victim, knowing that everything will remain exactly the same. on the day when the company x or the company did not settle in Madeira because this jurisdiction ceased to be competitive, this company settled in the Canary Islands, Luxembourg, Malta, Cyprus, the Netherlands, and out there. at that time, we must all, but all, take a conscientious examination and ask whether it was worth it, if the essential problem related to offshore was solved, if we end up with the problem of offshore. But more: we have to tell the Madeirans and Portuguese in general why we destroyed 15 % of the region's GDP, the region's wealth, or, for example, 20 % of the region's tax revenue. Because, someone will say, we had to set an example. But we also have to talk to restaurants entrepreneurs, hotel entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs of car rentals that have lost, and lose, an important piece of business, because after all we are always morally superior. We still have to talk to families that rent apartments, rent offices, companies and entrepreneurs who use Madeira's free zone, but who have stopped doing it because we are unbreakable convictions. We must also explain to the tens of young people who are very qualified, who work in investment attracting companies and tax planning in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, who know well the international market, who are very useful to the country but who have been unemployed, who perhaps Mr President and Mrs. Members, find an alternative in Cyprus, the Netherlands, the Canary Islands or even Macau. Finally, we have to explain to the more than 3000 unemployed Portuguese people who have lost their income because we prefer to set an example for the world and sacrifice our people, flesh and bone. Those people who are not little worthy, who are not ridiculers, who are not criminals but are people who work. I conclude by saying that Madeira's free zone actually has some problems and some defects. Some problems and shortcomings have already been presented here, particularly with regard to governance and, for example, the way the regional government views them. But there is one thing that the free zone does not have: basically, there is no problem of legislation for job creation. Today, it is possible and is obviously mandatory to have access to tax benefits, offset by job creation and no "more job creation" is resolved by decree or by more legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u72	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u73	Mr. President and Mr. Members, there are only two possible uses for offshores, for tax havens: money laundering and terrorist financing or tax evasion. It is customary to say that one of them is legal and that the other is illegal. Tax evasion is the result of tax architecture and tax engineering, business tax planning, and therefore uses legal gaps, while money laundering is obviously part of a set of illegal practices. But it is also good to remember that it is only legal because a good part, or rather, most of the members of the Assembly of the Republic systematically block solutions or because they are captive or capitulate in front of the great interests that profit from the existence of tax havens or, then, are even subject to these same interests. in the financial system, for example, we can see clearly the use of tax havens and what harms the stability of the system itself. in the case of BES, in the case BPN, in the case of BANIF, in the case of successive cases and in all others in which, while we are talking here, if the same is happening, the offshore is used as the biombo behind which can be carried out all kinds of practices, regardless of supervision, which, as we say, is used to reassure us. We are told that there is very efficient, very intrusive, very effective supervision. They tell us that the Banco de Portugal can monitor and have a monitoring and supervision capacity that can reassure us about the entire Portuguese bank, but at the same time they do not tell us that the Portuguese bank has a lever where it can demand all the practices and where it can perform all the practices, a dark area on which the Banco de Portugal or any other supervisory institution does not have any capacity. And this lever is the set of offshores that is at the disposal of the Portuguese bank and on which no effective action is taken in Parliament. The PSD and the CDS say that they are also against the offshore and such, that, in principle, it is necessary to legislate, but that it is not here, it is elsewhere, it is in the European Union, it is in the whole world at the same time, because otherwise nothing can be done. We already know very well how the PSD and CDS-PP are against offshore ones. They are not at the end of offshore, they are at the end of their characterization as offshore, as, for example, they tried to do with Panama, by signing with Panama a convention to remove Panama from the black list of offshore. I mean, they signed the convention...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u74	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u75	That is true, Mr. Deputies. Therefore, by signing this convention, Panama maintained its practices, but Portugal would no longer consider a offshore and would disappear from the offshore list. That's how PSD and CDS aim to fight offshores, it's changing their name.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u76	It's fake! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u77	Mrs. Members, in the financial system, the end of offshore is obviously not the sufficient condition but it is a necessary condition, in fact, such as the public control of the bank, for a stable and de facto financial system at the service of the country. We cannot continue to allow what has been happening in the Portuguese bank, because this falls on the same ones as ever, which are the Portuguese workers who end up paying the money all that bankers send to the offshore. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Increased transparency in financial transactions is a common design for most Western countries with market economies. The primary objectives are, above all, to combat money laundering and also the profit resulting from illegal activities, but also to avoid unfair competition, in terms of taxation in certain jurisdictions, which may lead certain taxable persons to make tax buildings that are unrelated to their actual activity. The initiatives that the PSD is proposing today are continuity initiatives towards greater transparency and monitoring of financial transactions, in particular those that are carried out for more favourable fiscal jurisdictions. First of all, there is continuity with regard to the measures taken by the previous government in this area, and here are some initiatives: the introduction by the PSD/CDS-PP government of the concept of "effective beneficiary" in the law defining the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, or, in tax matters, the increase of different rates for income paid and received in more favourable jurisdictions. But we also want continuity with regard to international efforts to increase transparency in financial transactions. This is because the relative speed in international capital movements implies that the objectives of combating money laundering and tax evasion are better served when the international community adopts common and compatible rules. in the European Union, in particular, which has as one of the pillars of the single market the freedom of movement of capital, is fundamental this coordination without which efforts become inefficient. And they become inefficient because not only do different regulations increase the potential to create legislative loopholes as well as different rules could easily lead to exits of legitimate capital and investment projects, thus contrary to the objective of preserving tax revenue. And it is with these issues that the PSD presents itself today and here the debate. On the one hand, he makes specific legislative proposals to the European Commission which were presented this morning at the beginning of the debate. On the other hand, it calls on the Government to move forward with the transposition of the existing directives on this subject, which have been adopted by Members of the European Parliament, the PSD, in Brussels. But we do more, we also make concrete proposals for transposition into some points that we consider particularly relevant. In particular, I would like here to highlight our objective and our project to make it compulsory for each company to have an updated central register, identifying the effective shareholders and beneficiaries at each time, in order to avoid the misuse of the actions to the carrier; limiting cash payments of more than €10,000, requiring at least the verification of the identity of customers in such cases; strengthening of client and beneficiary identification in the case of politically exposed persons; identifying the effective beneficiaries of companies and trusts and registering such information in the commercial register; creating a central directory accessible to all Member States and to the European Commission in which mandatory information in the field of taxation can be loaded and stored in the context of automatic exchange of information at the level of the European Union. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the PSD calls for today is speedy in the transposition of European directives, but also weighting and balance in its application in order to walk, together with our European partners, within the meaning of legislation that effectively combats illegalities and promotes fiscal justice, not paying attention to the necessary and balanced national fiscal competitiveness and within the European Union. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u80	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The President of the European Parliament said, Martin Schulz, still this weekend, at the Congress of the Socialist Party, that we face a situation in which speculators make billions of profits and do not pay taxes, but when faced with losses the taxpayers have to pay for them. This is not the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this is not the European Union because the European Union is moving away from the concept of democracy and the social market economy which, together, has enshrined in the Treaties and, in particular, in the Treaty of Lisbon. The founding principles of our democracy, the values we stand for are equality and opportunity between citizens, equal treatment between companies, cohesion and territorial convergence. To achieve these goals without fiscal justice is impossible, because social justice is dependent on justice in tribute, and on the tribute of everyone, of all factors, regardless of their mobility. Capital, land and labour are fair contributions to strengthen cohesion and public policies that we consider fundamental to social justice, to this social justice: public education, social security, public health and public investment, which is so necessary when today the European economy, but also the Portuguese economy, still faces times of great difficulty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members, on the other hand, we know that, even for those who defend competition and the market, the situation of tax injustice is particularly penalising for SMEs, because fiscally aggressive planning, tax evasion and the use of offshore are largely used by multinationals, who have an advantage that should not be used on the market, harming small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The Socialist Party believes that this is a fundamental struggle but that it can only be waged in the European Union, can only be waged in the global, multilateral framework. And, as the Prime Minister and Secretary-General of the Socialist Party well said, it is impossible for us to be socialist outside the European Union, because it alone is possible, in combination of efforts, to find global solutions in this matter. For the Socialist Party, cooperation within the framework of the European Union is a decisive element for us to be effective in this fight. That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to resolve this problem in a concerted fashion at European level and we call for the adoption of the Green Card initiative, which other national parliaments, in the context of the enhanced political dialogue, to endorse this Parliament's initiative. We call for this initiative of national parliaments to be welcomed by the European Commission and the European Parliament to be legislated so that it can act in order to have more fiscal justice and social justice in the European Union. It is time to put an end to the idea of a state which is strong on the weak and weak on the strong. And about this, Mrs. PSD Members, during today's morning, have come to tell us several times that the Socialist Party has a more moderate and less moderate. Let me tell you that in the matter of fiscal justice we are not moderate, there are not moderate, not less moderate, we are all radically against fiscal injustice and for social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u82	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Tax election, aggressive tax planning, tax havens, lack of transparency, lack of information and lack of tracking of capital movements, obscurantism in transactions damage the poorest, deepen inequalities, overcharge those who pay taxes, harm competition, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, harm economic growth, our model of development, our social model, the competitiveness of our economy, undermine confidence, credibility and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u84	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u85	As is clear in this Chamber, in this plenary, it is now a national priority to combat these national and transnational scourges, which are widely practised, I would even say, very tolerated and sometimes even sustained, doctrinal and case-by-casely, in relevant, but relative and evaluable values, such as the primacy of privacy, secrecy and secrecy, in contrast with a certain disillusion regarding the public control of the modes of production of wealth, which is an essential task of the State. For all this, Portugal has been on the front line in adopting instruments to combat these critical dysfunctions for the human, economic and social development that we aspire to. Proclaiming zero tolerance to tax evasion, aggressive tax planning, money laundering and other forms of resource diversion and the absence of procedures for tracking the movements of capital and unfair and arbitrary competition, we raised and maintained a black list of territories for tax purposes, which is quite extensive. Mr Miguel Tiago, unlike other jurisdictions, Portugal does not withdraw or withdraw territories from the blacklist, even when it has signed double taxation conventions. Our General Tax Law sets out demanding criteria for removing a territory from the blacklist, which include a real verification of the exchange of information between administrations, which observes whether the rules for determining the taxable amount on which tax affects diverge from internationally practised standards, particularly within the framework of the OECD, among other equally demanding criteria. It was not the practice of the previous government, but it has already come behind, nor has it been our practice to facilitate it in this matter. We signed a double-tax convention with Panama, but we did not remove Panama from the list, because the tests carried out by the Tax Authority for obtaining information were not satisfactory. After 2004, in 2011 and 2014, we kept Panama on the black list of territories for tax purposes. We have maintained and persist over 10 anti-abuse standards that penalize residents and offshore blacklist. With regard to aggressive tax planning, we have operationalized the general anti-abuse clause, which allows the Tax Authority, when it suspects that an operation has as its sole purpose the tax election, activate the clause and fully tax. We increased the criminal framework and the limitation period for 15 years in cases of creation of offshore to hide incomes. We exponentially increase the number of information exchange agreements. It's not a small thing, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on good practice, what we have been implementing and deepening, in order to ensure transparency, demand and rigour in the fight against tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and money laundering. But the fight against tax elections and aggressive tax planning is only effective if it is done internationally and, from the European point of view, through concerted action by all the Member States of the European Union. The unilateral agendas are worthy, they are quite worthy, but manifestly insufficient. It is a matter where ‘ proudly alone’ does not produce any results.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u87	Concertation and consensus must begin at the national level. Clearly, in this battle, which we ambitiously aspire to, union makes strength. And today, in this Parliament, we can, in consensus, show the strength we have about the imperative to deepen transparency, rigour and demand for financial transactions and capital movements. All parliamentary groups are presenting proposals with a common objective and priority. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u88	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u89	I'm done now, Mr. President. We therefore welcome this collective effort. It is in this context that the PSD Parliamentary Group proposes, through a 'green card' to the European Commission, to launch a legislative plea at European level to deepen the conditions for monitoring, monitoring and recording all financial transactions between the European Union and tax havens and to establish the obligation to publish all tax agreements between Member States. At the same time, we propose to recommend to the Government the anticipation of the transposition of the directives on the adoption of measures for the automatic exchange of tax information and the prevention of money laundering on 31 December 2016. Fraud and tax evasion, money laundering and the use of the financial system for the financing of terrorism, among other illicit and criminal activities, have long been at the heart of the concerns of Portugal, the European institutions and the Member States of the European Union. It is this effort in the national and European level that we propose to mobilize one voice from this Parliament. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Combating fraud and tax evasion require concerted action on a broad scale, with measures of general scope. We have the consensus in this Parliament, which allows Portugal to be a driving force for a reformist European agenda of greater demand, rigour and effectiveness in combating tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. Today, together, we can make a difference. That's the appeal I make here at the rostrum. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u90	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this debate it is clear that, with the new composition of the Assembly of the Republic, it will be possible indeed to advance something more in the fight against offshores, tax havens... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ...and to use it, have criminal purposes, be it covered by the law, for social and ethically reprehensible and unacceptable purposes. That is something we wanted to highlight in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that a single country cannot put an end to offshores because, as they exist today, they are a product and instrument of capitalism to ensure the objectives of concentration and centralisation of capital, particularly for the benefit and benefit of transnational financial capital. We obviously know that, therefore, a single country cannot put an end to offshore and tax havens, as they exist. But, as they seem to want to conclude the PSD and the CDS, if it is not possible to find an international framework for taking action to put an end to offshore and tax havens, that does not mean that each country, by itself, cannot move forward on that path and cannot take steps to achieve that goal. The CFP has brought this debate — and will be approved — a set of projects that contain solutions precisely so that Portugal can move forward in the way of fighting offshores, fighting tax havens and all the practices that are associated with them, whether of a criminal nature or of a fiscal nature, because also the practices that, by their fiscal nature and being covered by law, use the offshorers to achieve their objectives, do not cease to be ethically censorable and reprobable. Why should a society that manages social participations, which transfers its headquarters to the Netherlands, in order to pay less taxes than those paid in Portugal, have this possibility provided for in the law? We understand that we should not have and present projects to put an end to these practices, to put an end to what is objectively a damage to the public record and a damage that is caused to the Portuguese State, the coverage of the law, which allows such solutions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I just wanted to leave a reference to the free zone of Madeira. The position of the CFP on the free zone of Madeira is known for a long time: we support the extinction of Madeira's free zone because we believe that all Madeira-island companies, which are based wherever they are from Madeira's free zone, should have access to a more favourable tax regime, that all Madeira-based companies should benefit from a tax regime that considers the insularity and therefore we defend the extinction of Madeira's free zone. As such, of course, we cannot follow with a favourable vote the initiative concerning the free zone of Madeira, which still proposes the continuation of the tax benefits in the free zone of Madeira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u92	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u93	... despite tightening the rules, as the result of the project presented by the Left Block. Mr President, I will conclude by saying that, on our part, we will seek, as a matter of special concern, in the discussion of all draft laws, that Portugal can set an example, with concrete measures, which point to the extinction of offshores, to the extinction of tax havens and to the fight against practices associated with such instruments and so that, also at the international level, we can have our strengthened position to claim the measures that at the international level must be taken in the fight against such instruments and their practices. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u94	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, in this debate, has made its position on this issue very clear and it seems to us that the position on the only side that represents a democratic rule of law, which is essentially based on three pillars - we defend the importance of information, we defend transparency and we defend coordination. The first two depend essentially on national action: information, exchange of information with other States, obtaining information, destroying opacity in these types of systems. The second pillar is transparency, by means of measures which in the national legislative framework make it transparent what may eventually escape the scrutiny of all control systems. And in this the previous government has evolved and has results to give. To date, no other government in Portugal has so much reduced transfers to offshore for such a short time. in the same time period, the volume of national capital applied in offshore was substantially reduced. In other words, the Government of the PSD and the CDS, contrary to what is said to be part of this Parliament, has achieved the most in the fight against the perverse use of these tax systems. Therefore, for those who fill their mouths with the fight against offshorers, it is appropriate that one day they have 1 € to present as a result of their policies, to be able to compare with the millions of euros that the PSD and CDS have managed to bring into the system during the time they ruled. You still need 1 € if you want to have that legitimacy! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] And is it not strange that, since there is only one possible side to be in a rule of law, there are those who find it difficult to be on that side? And it is the parties that use demagogy here, because it is very useful for this kind of debate to make that kind of cheap demagogy, in which some parties in this Parliament are specialists. We, CDS, already know that there are Members of this Parliament who do not make speeches, distribute soups of letters: they have ten sentences, four words, five known names, which they use in any intervention. The theme may be about agriculture or offshore, but since it has three family names that cause printing, since it is spoken ten times in crime, since the name of all banks of the national banking system is said, the soup of letters is made and the objective is met,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u96	All right! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u97	... even if there is not a single new proposal and, if there is one, it has the minimum sustainability. It is that in the case of the Left Block there is a proposal that is new. It's obvious. What changed to the Left Block? Was it the International Business Centre of Madeira? No, no, no. What changed to the Left Block was the election result. The Left Block now has a member elected by Madeira and therefore can no longer share with the PCP the demagogy of the opposition to the existence of the Madeira International Business Centre. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, he says that he wants the International Business Centre to continue to exist but submits a proposal which is so absurd that in practice would destroy the International Business Centre itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u99	Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that what is extraordinary is that these parties, representatives of demagogy in this Parliament, can make these speeches without even having a word in relation to the model they defend, in relation to the model of the public bank. at a time when the public bank is in the situation in which it is, that the Government of the Socialist Party again abuses the perverse use of the State bank for objectives that are not legitimate, in this case to increase administration and increase public spending, the parties of demagogy are silent, are complicit and support what is happening. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u100	Mr Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one last speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u101	Mr President, the proposals we have put forward are, in some days, criticized for harmless populism and, in other days, criticized for dangerous radicalism, when, in fact, they are neither one thing nor another. What we don't do is put our arms down, say that the others solve for us what we don't want or can't solve, as long as we beat our hands in our chest and we congratulate ourselves so little that we did. Mrs Inês Domingos, from the PSD, said : « There is today a European consensus in transparency and combating abuse, a common design in the European Union ». The common design in the European Union is Malta, the common design in the European Union is the Netherlands, Switzerland, Cyprus, Madeira, Luxembourg and Ireland. There is no common design in Europe to combat fraud, to fight abuse, to fight offshoreers. Yes, there is a need to adapt the minimum, because what is going on has simply become too ugly, too clumsy and too impossible to accept. So it brings within the system what was outside the system, it legitimizes crime, it is called fiscal planning, it is called financial engineering which is, in practice, tax fraud, abuse and tax evasion. The double taxation agreements, which have been discussed here so much today, are just this, are presented as a weapon for combating fraud and for exchanging information, but are the window that opens when the door closes for companies to be able to use more favourable tax regimes to escape tax. That is why all of us in this room know that all the companies in the PSI 20 are based in Holland when they have no activity there, and this does not shock anyone, does not scare anyone, is the triviality of evil, is the triviality of abuse, is the banality of the tax escape we live with in this country, still being able to enhance the great contribution these companies make. There are other ways to bring to the system what was formerly illegal. Mr. João Almeida, from the CDS, spoke...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u102	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, I ask you to make only a small interruption in your speech, because it is very loud in the room. There are many ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, talk. I would ask you to feel that you can finish your intervention on condition. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u103	The Member of the CDS said: « We have brought millions of euros into the system ». It's true. Only the last fiscal amnesty that was approved by CDS and PSD brought billions of euros legally washed into the system. And the PS also approved two amnesties before that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u104	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u105	So, yes, they brought money into the system but unfortunately it was illegal money and it became legal and now you cannot blame people for the crimes they have committed. The CDS bothers to talk about Horta and Costa, it bothers to talk about BES, it bothers to talk about submarines,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... but I must tell you that these are three words that I will always have in my mouth, because they bother and are true. So here they will always be and I will never be ashamed to use them, because they are those that prove the relationship of CDS and PSD with this kind of practice. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So here will be the "letter soup" whenever we talk about these matters, because the "letter soup" is necessary to prove what really happens in the country and it is necessary to prove why it is so important, so important to put these projects through. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Here again, we spoke about the inability of these projects to solve something and we are forgetting, for example, the project that the Left Block presents so that the definition of "effective beneficiary" can be made to avoid precisely tax abuse in IRC by placing an anti-abuse clause in the IRC Code that so far does not exist. We want to know what you're talking about. Members of the PSD and the CDS will vote on this proposal as radical as introducing an anti-abuse clause into the IRC Code. But not only do we want to ban transfers to non-cooperating offshore, we want to ban titles to the carrier, because they are a way, as it is easy to understand, to avoid finding out who the real owners of the companies are. We want to force the publication of data, we want to go beyond what is easy, we want to go beyond what is convenient, also in the offshore of Madeira. And here too it is necessary to decide: either whether the measure ends with the offshore or whether the measure is only about employment in the offshore of Madeira, when, in fact, it is neither one thing nor another. What is being done is to recognize that companies located in Madeira may have a lower IRC, as long as they create jobs. If these companies, as has been said here, already create jobs, then they have nothing to fear and therefore can easily approve the offshore project of Madeira. The problem here is another: if we approved this project we would know that these companies do not create jobs and would run away, and that proves...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u106	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u107	... the true nature of Madeira offshore : it is not to create jobs, it is to facilitate tax planning, as was assumed by the PS Member, who spoke of « loss of employment to be generated in tax planning companies ». The banality of evil, the banality of escape to tax, once again. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u108	The Left Block did well to mark this debate. We must discuss these ideas, force the parties to say what they think and we can certainly go further in the measures we will adopt. But, Mr President, the appeal I make is that we speak to one voice but not just to say trivialities, i.e. that we can speak with one voice but also to say what is difficult to say and, more than that, to do what is difficult, which is uncomfortable but necessary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u109	We have reached the end of this point on our agenda today. I ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 266 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime applicable to the donation of food for the purpose of social solidarity in order to combat hunger and food waste in Portugal ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission in connection with 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u111	We shall now enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 208 meetings, to which Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS is added, by means of 209 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin with the vote on vote No 91 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemning and sorry for the victims of the attacks in the Turkish cities of Istanbul and Midyat ( CDS-PP and PS ), which will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u112	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: " last 7 and 8 June, Turkey again witnessed the horror of terrorism. This testimony is less and less spaced. this time, within two days, the cities of Istanbul and Midyat were the target of deadly bomb attacks, without appeal or aggravating, against police vehicles and facilities. The explosions caused 14 dead and 66 wounded in the last count, and a large part of the fatal victims were elements of the security forces. Terrorism has hit Turkey in countless violent, extremist and radical manifestations. Since the beginning of the year, Turkey has already witnessed multiple attacks throughout its territory, with massive fatalities and serious social sequelae. The feeling of fear in Turkish citizens is inevitable and the climate of permanent instability is inevitable. Since October 2015, Turkey has been on maximum alert, but it has not been possible to halt the outbreak of violence and barbaric attacks against the Turkish civilian population and their institutions. That is why we need to act accordingly. This means tightening the ties of cooperation within the Atlantic Alliance to respond more promptly to the terrorist threat. The effective fight against terrorism is a challenge for all of us. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic condemns the barbarity of these unqualified terrorist acts, expresses its regret at the loss of human lives, victims of violent radicalism in the two Turkish cities of Istanbul and Midyat and expresses its solidarity with the people and the Turkish authorities".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u113	Let us then vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u114	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u115	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u116	Mr President, it is to inform that, with regard to this vote, the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u117	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u118	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u119	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u120	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u121	All right, Mr. Deputies, it's registered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members of the Commission are now following the vote on 90/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) for which discussion times have been requested. We have made a careful reading of the Rules of Procedure and conclude that when time is required for discussion of votes, it cannot exceed 4 minutes. Therefore, each bench manages the time to understand, as it will have 4 minutes in total to intervene on the three votes that are in the vote. Let us then enter the debate on vote No 90 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Greetings for the participation of the Portuguese Armed Forces and security forces in the refugee rescue mission ( PSD ). Mrs Carla Cruz from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course the CFP values the role of the military, forces and security services that, through their action, have saved children, women and men, human beings victims of interference and aggression actions to sovereign countries. however, one cannot fail to consider a hypocrisy that the PSD now comes with a condod air weaving loas to the Armed Forces when, over the past four years, it has executed a policy that attacked essential pillars of the military condition and weakened the national response capacities of the military institution. [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]] The same applies to security forces and services, with the verified degradation of career conditions and pay positions, with the application of punishments to leaders of socio-professional structures by exercise of rights, in a course that led to the greatest protest actions of these professionals always. [[PSD protests.]] This is the same PSD that now so much refers to the Maritime Police and that he did nothing to match the successive requests put by his professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u123	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u124	This vote constitutes a demagogic exercise of instrumentalizing the action of military, security forces and services and refugees themselves, as a pretext for justifying the growing presence of NATO in the Mediterranean and for clearing up the responsibilities of the European Union and NATO in the drama of millions of refugees, through their wars of aggression to Iraq, Libya, Syria and other sovereign States. [[PSD protests.]] This vote aims to whiteen the tragedy that is currently taking place in the Mediterranean. It is shameful that a sense of recognition of the role and mission of the Armed Forces in general is instrumentalized when what would make all the sense was to condemn the militarization of the ongoing humanitarian issue, which, as the CFP has foreseen, is causing a death in the Mediterranean after the land routes were closed, particularly in the Balkans, and after the hotspots were closed in Greece. There have been 1,000 dead in a few days and 10 085 dead since 2014. This vote highlights a fact: the numbers of illegal immigrants returned. This is a vote that conceals the reality of a crime that is being committed, that spreads the reasons for the humanitarian crisis, that heightens the militaristic vision of a humanitarian issue, which speaks of human lives as if it were about combat prizes. We shall therefore vote against this vote. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u125	I now give the floor to Mr José Miguel Medeiros of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party welcomes this initiative and its opportunity. In fact, at a time when Europe and the world are faced with a crisis of this magnitude — the greatest since the Second Great War — and when Europe is reluctant to hesitate about the best way and quality of response, it is clear that it is to highlight the availability of the Portuguese Government and Portugal, as a country and as a Member State of the European Union, to commit itself to this response and, in particular, to stress the availability of the Armed Forces and security, which have been impeccable in the way they have worked and the effort they have made has allowed a much better humanitarian response within what is expected of the framework of the civilizational values in which we move and in which we believe. The Socialist Party will therefore vote in favour of this vote presented by the PSD. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u127	You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote presented by the PSD does not have a single word on the policy of border closure that Europe has followed. However, this absence is only for the whitening of this policy, which we consider unacceptable. The cover of praise to the Armed Forces and the security forces involved in refugee rescue missions, it is omitted that many of the people who risk their lives on sea voyages only do so because Europe has closed their borders. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u129	We do not deny the merit of the elements of the Armed Forces and the Portuguese security forces and praise their capacity and effort. But we well know that the missions in question are part of a wrong response from the European Union, with NATO's participation, in a logic of war and perverse border security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u131	Instead of closing the borders and betting on strengthening securityism, the European Union should open humanitarian corridors to protect refugees. Border control means the image of the failure of the European Union itself. [[Congratulations from BE.]] On the other hand, if there were a response under international law, particularly the Geneva Convention, humanitarian corridors would be opened to receive refugees and to visit more than 10,000 children wandering on the dusty roads of Europe. Therefore, the European Union is violating international law, only engaging in discussing shameful quotas. The number of deaths that continue to exist in the Mediterranean shows that the Frontex strengthening policy and the conclusion of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey are by no means eliminating trafficking in human beings and as many as thousands of people seeking refuge in war and poverty continue to risk life on the sea, at the mercy of traffickers. That is why the Block votes against this vote. We do not whitewash Europe's closure policies, we do not forget the answers that should be given to those who look to Europe with the hope of fleeing war and death. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u132	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this vote, I leave three brief notes. First of all, the CDS evokes and respects all the elements of the Armed Forces, the security forces and also the security services, including the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), which has not been contemplated in this vote, in relation to that which has been the defence, with professionalism, competence and brio, of our flag, in which it is—and it is the second note that I wanted to leave — as Pope Francis says, the greatest humanitarian tragedy since World War II.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u135	in the same way that we welcome the professional, competent and brilliant way in which our Armed Forces are acting, we strongly condemn the criminal smugglers who trafficked human beings. That is why and against these which our armed forces, security forces and security services are fighting, and these are the only ones that are fighting. That is why — and this is the third note I want to leave — we think, yes, we are ashamed that this vote is not adopted unanimously. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u136	What a hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u137	This is a vow that honors our Armed Forces, our security forces, our security services and, at the same time, vehemently repudiates the humanitarian tragedy we are experiencing. That, yes, seems embarrassing and we regret this. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u138	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the positions of the Left Block and the PCP, I would just like to say that this vote is not covered by anything. It is regrettable that the position of the Left Block and the PCP is certainly not at the level of effort, merit and recognition of men and women who, on behalf of Portugal, have saved so many lives in the Mediterranean. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if it is true that European policies for the prevention of a crisis like that of refugees are critical and have their defects, it is no less true that we know to recognize here, in this House, in the Assembly of the Republic, the effort and merit of hundreds of Portuguese women and men from the security forces, the Armed Forces, the SEF, the GNR and the Maritime Police who have saved many lives. And this House must pay this tribute to them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u140	As the Bureau does not record the inclusion of any other Member with regard to this first vote, we shall proceed to the vote. Let us then vote on vote No 90/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Greetings for the participation of the Portuguese Armed Forces and security forces in the refugee rescue mission ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] The discussion of votes 92 / XIII ( 1 ) is now followed. ( a ) — With regard to possible sanctions for non-compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact ( PS, BE, PCP, The Greens and the PAN) and 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — With regard to the possible application of sanctions to Portugal under the excessive deficit procedure ( PSD and CDS-PP ). Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am not very good at football analogies, but perhaps it is worth the use of these images. The Portuguese may be supporters of Sporting, Benfica, Porto or other club and do not like, or at least have an unpositive appreciation, either one or another, but, as far as the National Selection is concerned, some and others are excited and applauded with the same reasons and for the same reasons. This is or should be the case with sanctions which can be imposed on Portugal. The Assembly of the Republic should give 7 - 0! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is without prejudice to the fact that the previous government has failed and harmed, in the exercise of governance and the search for a trajectory of the deficit it has undertaken, thousands of companies, thousands and thousands of families. This without prejudice to others considers that the action of the current government is not the best. When it comes to national interest, however, we must all be together in forms and content. That is what the Socialist Party does, and that is what the Socialist Party will always do. Each puts more emphasis on one or another, on one or another reason, but, having a known trajectory of the deficit and having the possibility of imposing sanctions, we reiterate that these sanctions are unfounded, unjust, incomprehensible and counterproductive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall therefore vote on both the votes cast in this House. in the Socialist Party we are not able to be united when it comes to defending Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u142	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are speaking on a subject which has been under discussion, but which has not yet been decided. Obviously, the possibility, which has already been admitted, that sanctions could be applied to Portugal so that Parliament could have a serious discussion on this matter. I mean, without prejudice to any other images, football or other, that can be used, that there is no reason for sanctions to be applied to Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u144	in the PSD we defend principles and rules and, in all the rules and principles governing the European Semester itself and the European Union, there may be circumstances in which countries are subject to sanctions. If each country, whenever there was a possibility of sanctions, rejected them because it was the country concerned, we would simply be against the existence of a sanctions mechanism when there was non-compliance. I know that there are many people in Parliament who are against our participation in the European Union, who are against European rules. It is therefore understandable that these people, regardless of these rules, are always against any sanctions. It's not our position. Our position is clear : Portugal has not complied with the rules of the European Semester. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And, to this extent, it is not justified that Portugal will be subject to any sanctions. Why? First of all, because the deficit was only more than 3 % as a result of the application of a resolution measure to BANIF. The Commission's rules are clear: if a deficit is breached only for this reason, there can be no worsening of measures against that country. This is precisely the case: it was not the resolution of BANIF and Portugal that would be in a position to leave the excessive deficit procedure. Secondly, when we look at what has happened in terms of structural and nominal consolidation, Portugal actually has one of the best European results. And if we consider, in structural terms, the structural result not counting on debt interest, then in this case we have the second best European result.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u145	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u146	I shall conclude, Mr President. The day when Europe has to punish those who do, everything will be turned out of the bird. Mr President, let me tell you that we have endeavoured to ensure that there is only one Parliament's position on this matter. But we realize that when it comes to defending the national interest, if for that some have to recall the results of the past that prove that the sanctions are not applicable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u147	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u148	... it is preferable not to talk about these past results and just to say that we are against sanctions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have much more than to say that they are unjustified: we can prove why they are unjustified. It's too bad some don't want to! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u149	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, the question which matters at this time to those who listen to us outside this building about whether Portugal should be under sanctions from the European Commission, the unanimous response of this House should be 'no'! Portugal must not be under the European Commission's sanctions. The question as to whether the European Commission is hypocritical in the way it deals with Portugal, the unanimous response of this House should be 'yes'! There is a huge hypocrisy of the European Commission when he said that Portugal was the good student and now he is trying to punish Portugal for having complied with the rules that the European Commission has taken. This hypocrisy is unacceptable! And more: is there a hypocrisy of the PSD and CDS in this discussion? The answer is: there! Because they want to transform what has been imposed on the country, the sacrifices that have led to a brutal wave of emigration, to unemployment as never seen, to a recession that has destroyed a considerable part of the economy, into victories « for the European Commission to see», when what the hypocrisy of the European Commission says is that it is not enough, that it wants more! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] He wants to keep Portugal always under his blackmail, always under his will, always sacrificing Portugal. And that's what PSD and CDS don't want to accept. That is why, when we ask whether there could be a vote that said, only « No, Portugal does not accept sanctions, not the Assembly of the Republic does not accept sanctions on Portugal », the answer is « yes»! And after all, what will happen is that the pins on the lapel with the flag of Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u151	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u152	... worth much less than a unanimous position in the Assembly of the Republic on this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]] That is the poverty of this situation in the Assembly of the Republic and we were required to do more. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u153	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I may have to make a waiting compass until I have the opportunity to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u155	I would ask that the conditions for Mr João Oliveira's intervention be established. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation in Portugal today with regard to the possibility of the application of sanctions is very revealing the nature, objectives, policies and mechanisms of taxation of the European Union and of economic and monetary union. The problem is not just whether Portugal should or should not be subject to sanctions. The problem is also whether or not Portugal should be conditioned and subject to blackmail and the impositions of anyone who wants to impose on the country a course contrary to national interests, contrary to the interests of Portuguese workers and people. This is a problem that we cannot escape by dealing only with the issue of sanctions and ignoring the framework in which these sanctions are envisaged, the framework in which these sanctions are used, as a mechanism for conditioning our sovereignty, the country's development path and the resolution of national problems. This is the framework in which the CFP puts this discussion, knowing that this position of the CFP, that it is necessary to break with these constraints and constraints, is not a position subscribed by all parliamentary groups in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u157	by the sights, by the PS, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u158	We do not accept the options that others want to impose or try to impose on others our conceptions: we defend them with the arguments we have to defend them. But Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem that is being raised with regard to votes is not that. The problem with the vote is that the PSD and the CDS wanted to impose, in these votes, an option to bleach the previous government, an option to underline the reduction of deficit, ignoring the cost of how this deficit was reduced. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Ignoring that this deficit was reduced at the expense of wages, pensions, living conditions, indebtedness, sinking and the country's disaster. [[PCP and PS Pedro Delgado Alves applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u159	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u160	And, Mr President, if we agree that Portugal should not be subject to sanctions, if we agree that Portugal should not be the object of these mechanisms for conditioning and restricting its sovereign options, we cannot follow the whitening and attempt to forget the misfortune imposed on the country so that the PSD and CDS would impose the reduction of the deficit. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u161	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear and transparent: since the first hour the CDS has been, it is and will be against any penalty that can be applied to Portugal for failure to meet the deficit targets. It's against, here, and it's against outside! In particular the President of the CDS, in the European People's Party, told whom he had to say. We are against, firstly, because we defend and believe that the government must defend in the European institutions the position that without BANIF the deficit was 3 %. Secondly, even if we are not, we consider them discriminatory in relation to other Member States. [[PCP protests.]] Finally, thirdly, they are unfair because they disregard the effort of Portugal and the Portuguese which, in four years, reduced the deficit from 11 % to 3 %. Let's be clear! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This is, I think, the common denominator: we are all against sanctions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u163	You know that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u164	But here, it is also important to mention that responsibility now rests with the Government and with all the parties that support this majority of governments to develop a short- and medium-term budgetary strategy that will lead to the consolidation of rules and our accounts, allowing Portugal not to be sanctioned. In view of the national interest, we will always be with this or any other government, but that does not serve to disresponsibility of its incompetence or any other government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u166	Finally, Mr Carlos César, I would like to tell you that the CDS did everything to ensure that there was consensus. I agree with the honourable Member and also regret that there is no single vote. We found, until the last hour, that it was possible and we thought it was bad that it was not possible. But let us be transparent and clear: if it was not possible it was because the Socialist Party is in the hands of the CFP! It was the PCP that stopped the deal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] It is good, in the name of transparency, for the Portuguese to know that the CFP did not want to vote and did not give the consensus! I refer to the following purely factual phrase : « in view of the efforts and results of nominal and structural consolidation achieved by the country ». That's what prevented the consensus! [[CDS-PP applause.]] And the Portuguese, who with brightness and difficulty have overcome the difficulties—which still live—, did not deserve that the Socialist Party, a party once responsible, formerly a Europeanist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u167	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u168	... formerly of the governance arc, he had not agreed that he had remained hostage to the PCP. It is the ‘management’ at its best! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u169	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will give three very quick notes. The first to say that these votes appear today in the Assembly of the Republic, because there was a threat by the European Union of the application of sanctions to Portugal. Second note: it is important, from the perspective of the Greens, that the Assembly of the Republic rejects this possibility of imposing sanctions on Portugal. The third note has to do with the votes in particular. There is one thing that I think is important to say: the votes are not worth the title they have, the votes are worth the text they have and the information they give.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u172	The following is the case: there is a vote of the PSD and the CDS which makes it clear that one of the reasons why sanctions should not be imposed on Portugal is because an excellent result has been achieved during the previous term, in particular the previous year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u173	No, no! Don't say that! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u174	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll let me finish, thank you. As I said, the Greens do not see themselves in this reading of the situation. There is another vote that The Greens have signed, which states that one of the reasons why sanctions should not be imposed on Portugal is that the disastrous path that has been pursued and the disastrous results to which the European Commission has been supported. This is absolute hypocrisy! They have drawn us a path that the previous government has managed with joy and satisfaction and then the European Commission says that, in view of the results obtained from the policy pursued, it will apply sanctions! This is unacceptable! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we regret that, but the Greens cannot call excellent results and enormous effort to increase poverty in Portugal, to increase unemployment in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u175	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u176	...to economic strangulation, to income cuts, to brutal emigration that occurred. We do not call this excellent results. We're sorry, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] That is why eventually there has been no consensus because we have, in fact, different political readings about the reality of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u177	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u178	Is that weird? Well, two votes show up. The Greens will vote one of the votes in the same way and the other in another way. You must calculate more or less what it will be. Right? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u179	Mr César also has the floor, which has little time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been good for us to have experienced this negotiating process and today I hear Mr Pedro Passos Coelho. I already understood why there was no agreement: it is that the PSD does not accept to defend its country if it does not include the praise to its own party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands at the top of the benches.]] Too bad they got to it! We insist on valuing the interest of Portugal. I would also like to say to Mr Nuno Magalhães the following: we are not in the hands of any party or, then, we are all in the hands of each other, as is appropriate in democracy. But there is one thing that the PSD and the CDS convince us every day: although Portugal is no longer in your hands. [[P.S.'s applause, with some Members standing up.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u181	He's in bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u182	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the vote... [[Pause.]] I would ask that there be some calm in order to be able to vote. It is that these moments are always solemn in the life of the Assembly of the Republic and, above all, in relation to the votes to be followed. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — With regard to possible sanctions for non-compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact ( PS, BE, CCP, The Greens and the NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[In recent weeks Portugal has been referred to as being subject to sanctions for alleged failure to comply with the European Council's recommendations under the Stability and Growth Pact. The mere possibility of imposing sanctions on the country, in addition to unpublished at the level of the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact, appears unfounded, unfair, incomprehensible and counterproductive. Unfounded and unjust, in the face of the serious economic and social crisis affecting Portugal; incomprehensible, because it would represent unwarrantedly discriminatory treatment of Portugal vis-à-vis other Member States; and counterproductive, in the face of the challenges posed for the economic recovery of Portugal. The application of sanctions, which deteriorates the relationship between European institutions and sovereign states, would have a very negative economic, budgetary and reputational effect on the economy, investment, employment and therefore on Portugal's own public finances. Members therefore consider it unacceptable, unacceptable, unfair, incomprehensible and counterproductive a possible decision by the European Commission to propose sanctions to the country for failure to comply with the Stability and Growth Pact.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u183	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u184	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u185	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u186	Be registered. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — With regard to the possible application of sanctions to Portugal under the excessive deficit procedure ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] [[In recent weeks Portugal has been referred to as being subject to sanctions for alleged failure to comply with the European Council's recommendations under the Stability and Growth Pact. The mere possibility of imposing sanctions on the country, in addition to being unpublished at the level of the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact, appears unfounded, unfair, incomprehensible and counterproductive. Unfounded and unjust, in view of the efforts and results of nominal and structural consolidation achieved by the country and the serious economic and social crisis that affected Portugal; incomprehensible because it would represent unwarrantedly discriminatory treatment of Portugal in the face of other Member States; and counterproductive, in the face of the challenges posed for the economic recovery of Portugal. The application of sanctions, which deteriorates the relationship between European institutions and sovereign states, would have a very negative economic, budgetary and reputational effect on the economy, investment, employment and therefore on Portugal's own public finances. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, in accordance with the applicable rules and constitutions, decides that it is to be considered as unfounded, unfair, incomprehensible and counterproductive a possible decision by the European Commission to propose sanctions to the country for failure to comply with the Stability and Growth Pact.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u187	I therefore believe that all the Members of this House are against the sanctions and that all the Members of this House have voted on the paragraph which reads: « The Assembly of the Republic, in accordance with the applicable laws and constitutions, speaks in the sense that it is unfounded, unfair, incomprehensible and counterproductive a possible decision of the European Commission to propose sanctions to the country for failure to comply with the Stability and Growth Pact. This is a quite verifiable consensus. [[General applause, having members of the PS and the CDS-PP applauded standing.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 10 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The first amendment to Resolution No 2 - PL / 2016, adopted on 29 January ( Set the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in the XIII Legislation ). [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the NAP and abstained from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on the draft resolution No 11 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 203 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans payments to non-cooperating offshore entities ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall now proceed to the vote on an application submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without voting for a period of 60 days from Bill No 204 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defines the concept of effective beneficiary for the purposes of the IRC Code ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 205 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extend the securities to the carrier and determine the write-off of the securities, ensuring the identification of their holders ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall also vote in general on Bill No 206 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents cash payments above EUR 10 000 ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall vote on a request submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Budget, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without a vote, for a period of 60 days, of Bill No 207 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the effective beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 235 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Requires the annual publication of the total value and destination of transfers and remittances to countries, territories and regions with preferential taxation arrangements ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 236 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — condition the tax benefits of the Madeira Free Zone to the creation of stable and full-time jobs ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on a request submitted by the PSD to the Committee on European Affairs for a 60-day vote on draft resolution No 300 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends strengthening the Community legal framework in order to increase transparency in financial transactions ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on a request submitted by the PCP for discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without a vote, for a period of 60 days, of Bill No 255 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFPs ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 256 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defines the terms in which any company is considered to be resident for tax purposes, ensuring that its income is taxed in Portugal ( PCP ) ( text replaced by the author ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall vote on a request submitted by the PCP for discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without voting for a 60-day period of Bill No 257 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases tax rates for financial operations to entities subject to a clearly more favourable tax system under the framework of the stamp tax ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on a request submitted by the PCP for discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without a vote, for a period of 60 days, of Bill No 258 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax schemes under the IRC ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 259 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax schemes under the IRS ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 260 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the conditions under which a country, region or territory may be considered as a clearly more favourable tax system ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 261 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans cash payments above EUR 3000 ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 262 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans the issue of securities to the carrier ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall vote on a request submitted by the PS to the European Committee for European Affairs, without a 45-day vote of draft resolution No 317 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends strengthening and deepening of European coordination and action on transparency in taxation and financial transactions ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 263 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — lays down rules for cash payments ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall vote on a request submitted by the CDS-PP to the Committee on European Affairs for a 60-day vote on draft resolution No 362 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to increase the coordination of European action in the area of tax transparency and the fight against tax evasion ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 363 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends consideration of the creation of a central register of securities in the context of the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 365 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures for the automatic exchange of tax information and the prevention of money laundering within the framework of the transposition of Community directives ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 248 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — That the dredging of the Fuzeta Bar be considered as a priority work included in the dredging program of the Sociedade Polis Litoral da Ria Formosa ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u188	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u189	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u190	Mr President, it is only to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u191	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceeded to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein.o 976 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October, first amendment to Decree-Law No 313 / 2003 of 17 September, first amendment to Decree-Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December, first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September, first amendment to Ordinance No 421 / 2004 of 24 April, which prohibits indiscriminate slaughter of animals by municipal chambers, establishes a policy for the control of the populations of erring animals and establishes additional conditions for the creation and sale of pets ( ILC ) and 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for the establishment of a network of official animal collection centres and for the modernisation of municipal veterinary services ( CFP ). The authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, also regarding this replacement text, submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, concerning the projects of lein.o 976 / XII ( 4 ). a ) ( ILC ) and 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( CFP ), we shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the Commission, in particular. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Finally, we will move on to the overall final vote of the same replacement text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the projects of lein.o 976 / XII ( 4 ). a ) ( ILC ) and 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[Congratulations from BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Members.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on the replacement text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the drafts of lein. 22 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the public public public transport service of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, and the Metropolitane de Lisboa, EPE( PCP ), 48 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service by making the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2015 of 9 June and repealing Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December and Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December, determining the nullity of acts in the meantime practised in violation of this diploma ( BE) and 50 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Maintains the legal personality and autonomous existence of the Metropolitane de Lisboa, EPE, of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, da Transtejo, Transportes do Tejo, SA, e da Soflusa - Sociedade Fluvial de Transports, SA ( BE ). The authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] For the same replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, concerning the projects of lein. 22 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), presented by the CFP, 48 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), submitted by BE, and 50 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) presented by BE, we shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the global final vote of the same replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the drafts of lein. 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), presented by the CFP, 48 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), submitted by BE, and 50 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), submitted by BE. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on the replacement text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the drafts of lein. 25 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of direct adjustment and of the process of « sub-concession » to the private of STCP and Metro do Porto ( PCP ), 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the basis for the concession of the Port Light Metro system and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA(BE) and 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the cancellation and reversal of the process of sub-concession of STCP and amends the Statutes of STCP, SA, annexed to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July ( BE ). The authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs. Members, regarding the same replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on the drafts of lein.o 25 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), presented by the CFP, 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), submitted by BE, and 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) presented by BE, we shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We proceed to the global final vote from the same replacement text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on the drafts of lein. 25 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), presented by the CFP, 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), submitted by BE, and 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), submitted by BE. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u192	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u193	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u194	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that, with regard to the global final votes of the replacement texts submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, the Block on the Left will present to the Bureau a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u195	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Paragraphs 50 to 62 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning plenary meetings held on 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 25, 27, 28 and 29 April 2016 are hereby approved. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now have a report and an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will read.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u196	Mr President, the request for 2. the DIAP Section of the Public Ministry of Leiria, Comarca de Leiria, Case No 2261 / 15.1T9LRA, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José António Silva ( PSD ) to intervene in the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-09.u197	We shall proceed to the vote on the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, our next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday 15, and will have on the agenda a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. Before we finish today's work, I do not want to fail to greet the Socialist Party for the conduct of its congress and the CDS-PP for its parliamentary journeys. I wish you all a good weekend. I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 13 hours and 15 minutes.]]
