ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. The Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Emília Santos, has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 252 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Includes non-conventional therapies in the Health Bases Act, making the third amendment to Law No. 48 / 90 of 24 August, with amendments introduced by Law No. 27 / 2002 of 8 November, and reinforces the correct interpretation of Law No. 45 / 2003 of 22 August, and Law No. 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( PAN ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u3	Mrs. Members, today's agenda is based on the debate of the projects of lein.o 244 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of pensioners, pensioners and pensioners ( CDS-PP ), 245 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by exempting from the complaint the crime of violation of the obligation of food and aggravating its penalties ( CDS-PP ), 246 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by creating the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of a food obligation ( CDS-PP ), 247 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 25 / 2012 of 16 July, extending the size of the living will to the planning of old age, in addition to the disease situation ( CDS-PP ), and 248 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code establishes the right of the worker who is one year from the legal retirement age to be able to choose to work part-time for two years ( CDS-PP ), generally in conjunction with draft resolutions No 336 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review legislation so as to defend the elderly from abusive penalties and exclusions they are target by age ( CDS-PP ), 337 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend Ordinance No 87 / 2006 of 24 January revising the Voluntary Card procedure ( CDS-PP ), 338 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create additional incentives to support the hiring of unemployed over 55 years ( CDS-PP ), 339 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a career management plan for older workers ( CDS-PP ), 340 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement a national strategy for active ageing and longevity ( CDS-PP ), 341 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government equate the private sector regime with the public sector, where it is permitted to continue working after 70 years ( CDS-PP ), 342 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government encourage the development of senior volunteering initiatives ( CDS-PP ), 343 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve and qualify the home support service ( CDS-PP ), 344 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider and consider extending the scope and powers of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth ( CDS-PP ), 345 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the prices of health care and social support in the care and outpatient units of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care ( CNCI ) ( CDS-PP ), 346 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government react to the health line 24 Senior until the beginning of autumn ( CDS-PP ), 347 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will in the main media and in all public services with places of service including authorities ( CDS-PP ), 348 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal ( CDS-PP ) and 349 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the training of health professionals in the area of management at pre- and post-graduate level, particularly at the level of medical specialization ( CDS-PP ). at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes. To present the draft laws and draft resolutions of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are dealing with active aging and greater protection for the elderly, the reality of the elderly in our country, the life of about 2 million Portuguese people. To speak of this scenario cannot be seen as a minor or secondary issue and, in itself, the number mentioned here justifies the attention of society, families, of themselves and, surely, of political decision-makers. The CDS has come to highlight issues of the Portuguese daily, issues that are central and relevant to thousands of people and their families. For us, it is essential to be close to the Portuguese and actively contribute to finding solutions that aim to improve the living condition of our fellow citizens. Moreover, Mr President of the Republic has repeatedly launched — as he has indeed done days ago in this House — the challenge of obtaining broad political consensus in areas of high relevance to our society, which we welcome. We want to match this challenge, which goes against what is the CDS action line. We do not escape our responsibilities and we hope to see other parties available for these consensus here today in this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in longevity has allowed more people to live longer and, today, in our country, about 20% of the population is over 65 years old, with some areas of the interior already to overcome this. This increase in longevity represents a significant gain for us, and we make this debate in the certainty that aging cannot be seen as a social burden, as a mere matter of having, or not, reform or as a painful cost to society. Only developed countries are ageing countries: old age must correspond to an opportunity for the development of each and society as a whole, it is a challenge for all, and it cannot correspond to a way to aggravate different types of exclusion. [[CDS-PP applause.]] If it is true that we have gained more years for life and that, as far as the average life expectancy is concerned, we are at the level of most European countries, the truth is that the same cannot be said about the life expectancy with health, being elderly. There, our results are not so positive. Our elderly are still vulnerable, and the situations of chronic illness and of greater dependence are another reality, which justifies all our attention. It is this relatively new reality, this new challenge, of double ageing — a fall in birth and greater life expectancy — which prompted the CDS to present an extended set of measures, ranging from health, justice, social support, citizenship and volunteering. For the CDS, and in line with the concept of active ageing that the World Health Organization advocated in 2002, it is essential that responses are built, that can promote the quality of life and active participation of the elderly in society and that are based on intergenerational solidarity, in a vision of « a more humanized society, for all ages ». But we must also build a society which also guarantees consistent and extended responses, particularly in health and social support, and here we cannot stop signaling the important contribution of so many IPSSs in our country, which make support for the elderly the centre of their work. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I said that we wanted to build a society that also guarantees consistent answers for those who, because they are more vulnerable and in a situation of chronic illness, incurable disease or terminal and in a situation of greater dependence, cannot be seen as citizens of second or less dignity. We also want a society that supports families that care for their own. For us, the way we treat the most vulnerable is indeed a mark of the development of our society. The 19 measures presented here today include 5 bills and 14 draft resolutions. I would like to highlight just a few of them: the recommendation to develop and implement a national strategy for active ageing and longevity; the proposal to amend the plenary of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include two representatives of pensioners and pensioners; the creation of the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of food obligations; the recommendation to promote an extended information and awareness campaign on the vital will and the extension of the latter's scope beyond health issues, encompassing the planning of old age; the recommendation to strengthen the various levels of training of health professionals in the areas of geriatrics and palliative care, particularly in the pre-graded and as areas of specialization; the rehabilitation of the health line 24 Senior, unfortunately suspended until early autumn. These measures are addressed to the needs of a large number of Portuguese people, reinforce the participation of older people in society and seek to improve the good care of the elderly. They are, we insist, important and relevant and they are not a small thing. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As we have already had the opportunity to say, today we look forward to dialogue and constructive participation of all banks, responding to the effective problems of millions of elderly people and their families. A response that goes beyond party complaints, an answer based on consensus and effective commitments, which meets the challenges posed by the President of the Republic and to what the Portuguese expect of us. For a situation with this magnitude and relevance, we hope that the Socialist Party and the parties supporting the Government will not steal their responsibilities and we hope that they will know how to meet this greater challenge. We do not accept dehumanization, nor passivity, when it comes to matters of aging. We do this debate with deep responsibility and seriousness, far from an approach that chooses to put emphasis on issues that do not affect human beings, nor have the dimension, the impact on the daily life or the relevance of what we are dealing with today. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We intend to contribute to a cultural change, a change of mentality, about how our society looks and treats the elderly, which represents a long process, that we do not intend to abdicate. We have already put forward other measures and today we are putting forward proposals which are certainly another step in this direction. The CDS is proud of the contributions it makes here today. I hope, the good of a more developed and supportive society, we can all be up to what the Portuguese expect of us. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u5	Seven honourable Members have signed up to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. How does the honourable Member want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u6	To a first group of four and then to another of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u7	All right, Mrs. Deputy. So you have the floor to Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 72. paragraph 1 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic reads as follows: « Older persons have the right to economic security and living conditions and family and community living conditions that respect their personal autonomy and avoid and overcome social isolation or marginalization. » That is, being old can even mean being dependent, and it happens many times. It cannot mean loss of rights, nor can it mean loss of dignity. Therefore, it cannot be a factor of discrimination, as frequently happens in our societies, which marginalize, abandon, vote the elderly to a great isolation. Therefore, age discrimination is one of six discriminations against which we must fight if we want a more just and equal society. We therefore need, yes, Mrs Deputies, policies to support older people, we need active ageing policies, but we also need a new intergenerational dialogue. All these policies and dialogue are included in the current Socialist Government Programme. It is therefore up to me to ask what has been done over the past four years to avoid discrimination based on age. Let us see: the elderly have seen an increase in the risk of poverty — one in five elderly people over 65 years of age has been at risk of poverty, and one in four elderly people over 75 years of age has been at risk of poverty. The elderly have seen a decrease in income — 85 % of old-age pensions in social security are less than € 500. Portugal has seen an increase in the dependency rate. Portugal presented one of the highest rates of dependence within the framework of the European Union: one in four. And what did the right government do? He decreased support, cut off the solidarity supplement for the elderly and cut off pensions, happily already restored. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u9	And he just didn't make these cuts worse because the Constitutional Court didn't leave. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS is concerned, and well — and your concern is our concern — with the elderly and wants to improve a set of support networks. I specifically refer to the incentive to register the vital will, which is essential for a careful and active old age. Therefore, we are all welcome to this dialogue — it is you, and so are we. The question that I leave is this: where have you been in the last four years, in which so much has been withdrawn from the elderly? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, the PS is prepared to accompany and deepen this dialogue, in the field of expertise, until these proposals are contained in the Government's Programme — and even more so than these proposals. We're going to redo many of the things that have been undone and we're going to do what hasn't been done yet. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u10	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u11	Mr. President, Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto, the CDS-PP today brings to the debate an extended set of legislative initiatives—are five bills and 14 draft resolutions—on active aging and protection of the elderly. in the explanatory statement of legislative initiatives — they are all the same up to page 9, so I do not want to mention the number of the initiative, says the CDS that « (...) it is important to ensure the existence of effective protection mechanisms that safeguard and meet the particularities, risks and weaknesses of the older. Many of these elderly people are people who, due to their special susceptibility, need special and enhanced protection, whether in social, economic, health or justice terms." We even agree with the diagnosis that the CDS-PP makes and expresses in the explanatory statement, but we must deeply regret that the CDS-PP has only now awakened to the serious problem that constitutes the situation of the vast majority of the elderly in our country. And we regret more that only after the CDS-PP has been reminded of leaving the government, the same government that the CDS-PP was part of and that it has transformed this country into a place where not everyone has taken place and that, with its policies, it has sought to put the country in the title of this film This Country is Not For Old; and the same government that spread poverty, which has widened the gap between rich and poor, which has deepened social inequalities in the distribution of wealth and has increased the risk of poverty, a drama that has mainly affected older people. Even knowing that pensions are the main means of subsistence for the generality of the elderly, that the quality of life of the elderly is very dependent on the amount of pensions and the rights resulting from social transfers, even knowing all this, the previous government did what it did with the reforms, pensions and social support, transformed the solidarity complement for the elderly into a real mirage for many, many, elderly people in this country, cut off in the reforms and, if not the Portuguese that they said on October 4th" comes! There were more than 600 million euros from the reforms of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u12	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u13	The previous government also cut in the reforms and penalized the reformed and more did not cut and no more penalized because the Constitutional Court did not leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u15	The pension rate will not pass. Mr Paulo Portas, then Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, said: "It is the border that I cannot allow to pass." Do You Remember? But, after all, that's what you saw! It was not the Constitutional Court and there was another red line, it was not the Constitutional Court, and the PSD/CDS government imposed a definitive sustainability contribution on the value of pensions. In fact, the concern of the PSD and CDS with older people was such that they even forced the former President of the Republic, who spoke so little and so few times, to say that there are limits of dignity that cannot be overcome. This is what the previous government did to older people. Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, my request for clarification has to do with draft resolution No 338 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), which recommends that the Government create additional incentives to support the hiring of unemployed over 55 years of age. I ask you, Madam Member: do you have any idea of the universe or of the number of unemployed over 55 years of age who have lost their jobs following the policies of the previous government that the CDS-PP was part of? And when I talk about policies - not only do I refer to redundancies made at the level of Public Administration... [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Member, I just wanted to know if you have any idea what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u16	I have, I have!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u17	So you will certainly have an opportunity to answer. We can say that now they want to help the people who have been penalizing before. [[PCP applause.]] When I talk about the policies of the previous government, at the level of dismissal, I refer not only to the dismissals that were made in the central administration but also to the level of changes to labour legislation that the PSD and the CDS have played and that have made dismissal cheaper and easier, on a real invitation to employers to fire in order to « take advantage now because it is cheap and easy ». Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I would like that — having this number, and, of course, you have — to tell us if you have any idea what the universe of people over 55 years old who are unemployed today and who have ended up falling into unemployment because of the policies of the previous PSD/CDS government. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u18	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u19	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, over the past few years, has recognized the importance of active ageing for the improvement of quality of life, for the strengthening of health, safety and participation of older people, as has been recognized by the World Health Organization itself. The elderly are often subject to isolation, depression, disease, as well as to many other forms of social exclusion. Social exclusion adds to the ill-treatment, abandonment, marginalization, to which our elderly, victims who have devastating consequences for their health, self-esteem and personal fulfillment are subject. It is therefore essential that it be placed on policies to promote active ageing. If we want a society more solidarity, fairer, more inclusive and more developed, there must be a collective objective, that of trying to increase the average life expectancy, with health, with autonomy and with independence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u21	In Portugal — the fifth country of the European Union with the highest aging rate — this is a central problem. Quality aging is one of the greatest challenges for our country and requires people and institutions that invest in physical, social and mental well-being throughout life. There are institutions that are fundamental: IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and older universities. In Portugal, senior universities have a recognised role in promoting this well-being by developing numerous physical, intellectual and social initiatives that regularly reach more than 50,000 people. The value that we have as a society is measured in the way we treat the most vulnerable and the most unprotected and older universities, by the way they develop their work online with local partners, with the authorities, with various entities, they have conquered their own space in Portuguese society, which deserves recognition and formal regulation. For these reasons, the PSD will shortly present a legislative initiative to enhance and strengthen the role of older universities in promoting active ageing policies and in combating social exclusion. One of the most visible aspects of the contribution these organisations have made to society is the strengthening of senior volunteering. And contrary to what the Left Block says, voluntary work is not bullshit,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u22	... because, as mentioned in one of the initiatives under discussion today, the senior volunteering presents itself as an excellent alternative to the occupation of time, using knowledge and experience at the service of others, and must therefore favour intergenerational projects and avoid age-based segregation. What I would like to ask Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto is the role that these institutions, whether the IPSS, or older universities, should have in promoting and valuing the senior volunteering, given the long experience they have but, above all, the contribution they have made throughout the last few years in Portugal? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u23	To conclude the first group of requests for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u24	Mr. President, Mrs. Isabel Galliça Neto, the CDS looks like one of those old ketchup bottles: for four years nothing has come out that would improve the lives of the elderly and, suddenly, the CDS goes to the opposition and clears everything from the bottle, kilos and kilos of resolution projects to recommend to the Government everything that it has not done during the four years it has been in power. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The CDS, while in the government, kept the pensions frozen and now puts on the pensioners' party mask. Mr. Member, does anyone believe you? Oh, my God! The CDS, while in government, cut the CSI (a solidarity complement for the elderly) to 70,000 elderly, throwing them into poverty, and now presents itself as a defender of the elderly. Do you believe anyone, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! The CDS, between 2012 and 2014, was in power just in the period when the longer-term unemployment rate among people over 55 years of age increased. And are there now incentives to support employment for over 55 years of age? Oh, my God! For four years, Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto, the CDS, in government, inferred the lives of the elderly with court in the transport of patients, with the closure of health centres and post offices, with the facilitation of the evictions, with the law of incomes and, now, are you talking about the protection of the elderly against abandonment? Oh, my God! Madam Member, is there more abandonment than the one promoted by public policies that the CDS has put in place in the last four years? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Madam Member, defending the elderly is to defend pensions, it is not to cut EUR 600 million in pensions, as was the commitment of the CDS and the PSD to the European Commission and which, fortunately, was avoided because there is today a new majority and today there is a new government. [[Protests by PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares and CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Defending the elderly is to have public responses, it is not to turn the elderly into a business or market niche, it is not to allow, for example, how the CDS allowed with its Minister Pedro Mota Soares, that the IPSSs who have protocols with social security make the reformed rich pass ahead of the reformed poor in the waiting lists for the homes. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The President of the Union of Mercy himself said, and I quote: "I have told the suppliers myself to make the balance in the entrances. I mean, let one who has more possessions and two with less. It is a question of balance'. No, it is not a question of balance, Mrs Deputies, it is a matter of illegality and disrespect for those in the queues, which was tolerated and promoted by the CDS while it was in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u25	All right! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u26	Defending the elderly, Mrs. Member, is to value their experience and autonomy, it is not to attract the protection of the elderly, as it is being proposed today, for the protection committees of children and young people at risk, as if the elderly were smaller, as if the elderly were less citizens and subject to protection. Above all, the protection committees for children and young people at risk were emptied of hundreds of technicians by a decision of former Minister Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u28	Mrs Deputies, there is no question here of the need to reactivate the health line 24 Senior, as we have already proposed ; it is not concerned about the need to improve the representation of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council, as the BE has already proposed, through a bill currently pending in the Assembly of the Republic ; it is not concerned about the need to train professionals in the area of geriatrics or to regulate the profession of gerontologist, as the Parliament decided on the initiative of BE a few weeks ago ; it is not concerned about the advantage and the need to disclose the vital test to make it more known, a proposal that is of course useful and that we defend ; it is not concerned about the need to reform the continuing care network or the home support service, as the Left Block has insisted, or the need to implement the status of the informal caregiver, which has already been the subject of a decision of this Parliament ; what is concerned, MrDeputée ,yes , a policy is not todo. For our part, here we are. The Left Block here is for an integrated policy that does not make the elderly an occasion flag but looks at the elderly as part of the population that finally sees their dignity beginning to be redeemed at the end of four years of impoverishment, which the CDS and the PSD have promoted. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u29	To respond to this set of four requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u30	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the questions and comments of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, then welcome and register until the agreement, which seems to be extended, with the majority, in relation to a significant number of proposals we have tabled here. That's why we're here to build bridges. Ask me where we've been in the last four years. Where did we go? Oh, my God! once and for all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we went to pay debts from a country that was left to us... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] I will repeat: we went to pay debts of a country that was left to us on the brink of bankruptcy, in absolute certainty that the greatest enemy of the social state, the greatest enemy of the elderly is the broken state that you left us! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] In fact, in this debate, it is necessary to stir up some memories. It is worth remembering that it was not us, that the Socialist Party entered the pension cuts into the Memorandum of Understanding. You're remembered that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Do you remember that? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] With regard to remembering, it is also worth saying that in the last four years... [[PS protests.]] Listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Listen! It's not good news, but it's reality. As I said, it is important to remember that we increased minimum, social and rural pensions by more than 5, 3 %, an average increase of 160 € per year. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. José Moura Soeiro, it is not € 25, not € 1!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u31	It's your price!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u32	That was not the price we raised, and that should be borne in mind. Therefore, concerning the past, we have the notion that we have been responsible for a period of enormous difficulties, as we will continue to be it now, in a different period. I would also like to tell you that they do not scare us, nor will we resign from contributing to building the country's future. So it is not up to us that you have to answer, it is the millions of elderly people, whether they want to continue to be arrested in the past or if they want to move forward, not to have a protest party attitude and build, which is what is needed. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] To finish, I'm going to say two or three things. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, regarding the TSU (the single social rate) of the elderly, it should be recalled that it was caught up in what was the proposal of the troika and that it was the government that decided not to take this action. So he also wanted to stir up that memory. It is true that we are talking about innovative proposals and, to conclude, I want to say that, for us, IPSS has a fundamental value in the country, it is an essential network that contributes to the dignity of the elderly and that, of course, I have had the opportunity to refer to it - it continues to have a central role in a network of essential proximity, valuing the social sector in complementarity with the private sector and the public sector. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u33	To initiate the second group of requests for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u34	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has invited us here to discuss the problems of the elderly in our country and we are here for that, because we are indeed concerned about the lives of people, especially in what this has meant for thousands of families. The honourable Member has invited us to do an exercise here: let us forget what was the last four years and start proposals for the recovery of rights and income. at least from the PCP, that's how we interpreted it. Madam Member, it is impossible to seriously discuss the situation of the elderly, ignoring what has happened in the past four years. It's impossible! It is impossible because, in the last four years, measures have been taken that have meant the profound deepening of the living conditions of thousands of elderly people in our country. It is impossible to forget that the CDS, which was in the government with the PSD, had the Ministry of Social Security, which was responsible for cutting the solidarity complement for the elderly to 72,000.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u36	Between December 2011 and December 2015, this support was cut to 72 000 elderly. It is impossible to move aside from what has meant the problem of increasing the age of reform and forced ageing, forcing thousands of workers to work longer and cutting the value of their future pension. It is impossible because, Madam Member, or the CDS admits, here, that what happened in the last four years has been wrong political options, and here we will be to discuss alternative paths, or then we will not discuss here that what happened in the last four years has been an inevitability and that from now on the oasis will come. Mrs Deputy, I am going to put concrete questions about CDS initiatives, and I am not going to discuss why the CDS is presenting 18 initiatives where the preamble is exactly the same, because this is an option of the CDS and each party knows about itself and its legislative technique. Nor will I discuss why the CDS does not base its proposals, because this is necessarily the responsibility of the CDS, and the honourable Member here will be to justify these measures, but I have three questions to ask. On draft resolution No 338/ XIII ( 1. ( a ), which provides additional incentives to support the hiring of unemployed over 55 years of age, I would say that it is contradictory to what the CDS said 15 days ago. Since when the CDS has been concerned about the sustainability of social security when what comes to propose is so alone, Mr. Members, the waiver of social security contributions for these workers for a period of 36 months? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for the CDS to defend social security on Tuesday and be an enemy of social security on Thursday! at least there must be consistency! Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I ask directly: regarding draft resolution No 338 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) how much does this mean loss of revenue for social security? You always like to know the costs of the measures being discussed, so tell how much this means loss of revenue for social security. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u37	The second question I want to put, to conclude, has to do with the draft resolution on the protection committees for children and young people at risk. The honourable Member knows that she had a Minister for Social Security who was responsible for having profoundly weakened the role of the CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth). He sent for requalification a chairman of two child and youth protection committees, these committees which, today, continue without social security technician by choice from the previous governor, his bank colleague Pedro Mota Soares. But regardless of this and the direct responsibility they have in the fragility of CPCJs, the CDS proposes that the CPCJs, who are today crushed with the follow-up of children and young people, also follow the elderly. Mrs. Members should at least have been given the task of justifying this option in the preamble. It is that this matter is deeply sensitive and very important. Therefore, it is not enough to say that they present 18 legislative initiatives without justification, to present a round number, and then there is no consistency in what they present. from the PCP side, here we will be in defense of the recovery of income and rights and in defense of a fairer country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u38	For clarifications, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today brought the debate, through a legislative agenda, a set of 19 measures on a matter as current as is active aging and the protection of the elderly. Population ageing and, consequently, increasing longevity emerges in society the need to find answers to the new problems of the elderly population. It should be noted that Portugal faces the ageing and growth of the elderly population with low incomes, which live alone and isolated from population agglomerations. A paradigm shift is needed in matters of aging: strengthening the participation of older citizens in social life and the adequacy of their care; ensuring public and social policies, safeguarding and promoting the well-being and inclusion of the elderly, taking into account their physical, psychological and mental risks and weaknesses, allowing their longevity and active aging. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I could not fail to make a well-deserved reference to social and solidarity sector entities, represented by Mercy, Mutualities, IPSS, which had a decisive role in the austere period we are going through. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u40	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a reference more than deserved. Social sector entities have been and continue to be State partners. They play a predominant role in solving a set of social responses, contributing directly to the promotion of well-being, improving and adapting the care provided to the elderly, often replacing themselves with families in tasks as simple as paying for light, water, taking him to the doctor, giving him breakfast when he arrives at the institution. They provide daily support to a vulnerable group of people through day-to-day centres, the homes of the elderly, home support and continued care. This is the reality of social economy entities which the radical left does not value. We are not clearing "pounds and kilos" of projects, as I have heard here today. Let's get rid of demagogy! The former government, within the framework of the European Plan for Active Ageing and Solidarity between Generations, has developed several projects that are on the ground and that contribute decisively to the lives of our elderly. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, an active ageing cannot separate from the attitude that each person has before society and before life. It is a process of full citizenship that depends primarily on the condition of health, safety, coexistence and participation. Today, the old age you want to have tomorrow is prepared. I address a question to the CDS : they want VV. For example, the adoption of a national strategy for aging that will define political responsibilities that involve the solidarity social sector, specifically the IPSS, or do you think it will be a mistake, as the radical left in Parliament says? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u41	Mr Carla Cruz, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u42	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, today's debate is a farce. It is a farce, Mrs. Member, because over the fourth year when they had government responsibilities, the PSD and the CDS did nothing to improve the health of Portuguese, patients and the elderly. on the contrary, the measures they took were measures that severely aggravated access to health care for these weaker populations. Let us look at some examples, Mrs Deputies, to boost your memory: closure of proximity services, health centres and extensions and hospital valences, and withdrew the right to transport to non-emergency patients, preventing these people from going to treatments and consultations and even medical examinations. They reduced health professionals in teams, those who now say they want to increase, but when the PCP here presented proposals for valorization, for the increase of these professionals and for the strengthening of these teams the CDS voted against. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] They did not hire the missing professionals or those who left were replaced, preventing many of these patients, particularly chronic patients, from having the necessary follow-up of proximity to health care. These measures, Mrs Deputy, have called into question the health of Portuguese people and the provision of health care to these populations, but the policy of exploitation and impoverishment carried out by PSD and CDS-PP over the past four years have disproportionately aggravated social inequalities and raised levels of poverty to levels that have not been seen since the time of fascism. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And they led to the fact that many of these Portuguese, the elderly, the chronic patients, could not even warm up their home and take the medication they needed, and that, yes, Mrs. Deputies, weakened their health and made them reach hospitals in miserable conditions, hospitals that, because of the policy that PSD and CDS carried out, did not have the conditions to receive them, which made them wait hours and hours waiting for a consultation and stay in corridors when admitted. But, Mrs Deputies, the debate here shows who is PSD and CDS and particularly the measures they propose. instead of strengthening the public response, what is proposed here is the strengthening of the private response and the social sector. rather than saying that a quality public response is needed, what you will say is that there is a need to transfer more care to this social sector. The honourable Member is now concerned with medical training, with pre-specialized and post-specialized training. What did PSD and CDS-PP do about it? They prevented doctors from accessing the specialty, preventing doctors from being hired here, forcing them to emigrate. Mrs Deputy, in fact, what the Portuguese need, and they have demonstrated - in the polls on day 4 - is to defeat the PSD and CDS policy and to say that another policy is needed for the elderly,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... that a different policy is needed for the National Health Service, but it is not with the measures they present today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u43	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u44	Mr President, Mrs Helga Correia, thank you for your question and your comments. I can't agree more with what he did to us. Briefly, Mrs Rita Rato and Mr Carla Cruz, I would say that we notice that for the CFP it is a farce to discuss measures about the elderly. For us, it's not, nor do we admit... [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]] ... that we are not in a position to propose anything, because, as we have already said, we are with our eyes set on the future that we want to help build, we do not want to continue with a pasty speech like the one you have insisted on having. In fact, we haven't forgotten the last four years, we don't forget why we've been forced... [[Protests by Members of the PCP Carla Cruz and Rita.]] ... I repeat, forced — to take steps to solve the problems and all the incompetences that a State presents on the brink of bankruptcy. And that, yes, you have already forgotten! It's good to revive your memory. We do not forget, but we do not remain attached to the past. We want to move forward, we note, in fact, that they continue not to criticize the content of our measures. [[Protests by MPs of PCP Carla Cruz and Rita Rat.]] Therefore, we are available to discuss the most detailed content of the measures that we have actually proposed here and that, I insist, we hope that they represent a broad consensus, because that is what the elderly expect of us. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u45	For an intervention, Mrs Sofia Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, population ageing is one of the great challenges of our society, which has become a natural consequence of expanding the average life expectancy. Older people, because of their experience, knowledge and contributions, are indispensable to society and families and we cannot waste this enormous gain in years of life with health gained in the last century. The increase in average life expectancy should be seen as an objective to achieve and an opportunity at any age and is one of the greatest challenges of our time, so that aging is a positive experience and to invest in human potential, for physical, social and mental well-being, throughout the course of life. Unfortunately, in today's reality, the elderly are a social group of serious risks, much because of the economic precariousness and the impossibility of accessing the goods and services that allow them to continue their lives in the best conditions. We must not forget—and it is indeed important to highlight here today—that the measures implemented in the latest legislation by the PSD/CDS Government have led to a significant impoverishment of the elderly population. There was a decrease in the number of beneficiaries of the social supplement for the elderly, with less than 69 000 Portuguese covered by this measure. There was an excessive penalty for early reforms, which led the Socialist Party to suspend these reforms in order to draw a new model as a more equitable and just solution. in a context of economic crisis, there was even a decrease in the number of beneficiaries of social income for inclusion, with less than 114 000 Portuguese covered by this measure, this situation is also reversed by the current Government of the Socialist Party. Social cantons have shown to be a more expensive and less fair measure than the social income of insertion. Almost 50 000 meals are served every day in the 845 canteens that integrate the protocol, which represents a daily expenditure of 122,560 € paid by the State to the IPSS. at this time, the Socialist Party Government is studying a more equitable and just solution. There was still a cut in the complement for dependence. The former Government has cut access to this supplement, often taken by reformed people, who cannot meet the basic needs of daily life. There was an increase in moderate health rates, a situation that, fortunately, is already reversed by the current government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the cruel cut of these benefits and the increase in moderate rates, the elderly lost resources, lost quality of life, lost hope, lost dignity. In times of embarrassment and difficulties of Portuguese families, these measures have only been penalised even more those who have less financial availability and less conditions to provide the obligations of those in charge. The older people are very different from each other and are not only passive agents and caregivers, they have the right to their individuality, to respect and consideration of their will and are a huge support force in providing care to the younger and the older, and of social and economic balance and sustainability. Living more time with quality of life, without physical or mental illness, can greatly help compensate for increasing costs with pensions and reforms, as well as costs with social care and health care. The child of yesterday is the adult of today and the old of tomorrow. The quality of life that people will have when older depends not only on the risks and opportunities they experience during life but also on how later generations will offer mutual help and support when necessary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, always safeguarding the best interests of the elderly and affirming a positive image of this group before society, in order to strengthen their rights of protection, it becomes necessary to carry out more technically demanding and rigorous initiatives. The Government is aware of the importance of promoting public policies that encourage active ageing, so that, among the priorities defined in the government programme, the objective of valuing people is highlighted, promoting the quality of life and the defence of their rights, taking into account the need to prepare society for population ageing. We do not forget that in the last four years, the elderly have often been forced to choose between drugs and food, when both are essential to their survival. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we want for the elderly much more than to survive, we want to create all the conditions so that they can live with dignity. I conclude by welcoming the fact that the CDS brings the debate to an issue which, for the Socialist Party, is extremely important. Although there are subjects with which we agree and others with which we do not agree, we are sure that it is an advantage that we can address and reflect on this problem together, and that this same reflection should be detailed, rigorous and demanding, and cannot, nor should, be the subject of avulsive actions, where quantity is prevalent and not quality, as presented to us today. For this reason, the Socialist Party believes that the fall to the committee will leave us on a more technically serious and rigorous path to strengthening the rights and protection of the elderly population. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u47	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a debate such as the one we are making today on the very important issue of active ageing, there are issues that cannot fail to be put to anyone who responds to the current political solution that governs the country, and one of these issues concerns ongoing care. in recent years there has been a substantial extension of the Integrated Continuous Care Network, in the order of 50 % ( increased from about 5500 to 8300 beds between 2011 and 2015 ). This growth was made in a responsible way, contrary to what unfortunately happened in the time of the socialist governments, in which there was a manifest underfunding of the Network and did not take care to ensure the sustainability of the provision of more beds. In fact, the current Minister of Health has already said in this House that « If there is an area where the previous government has made a good effort has been in this area, and that is what the numbers show – we and we... », the PS, «... we recognize it». It happens that the National Reform Programme provides for the extension of the Continuous Care Network in 756 beds until the end of 2016. It is therefore important to know whether the Socialist Party can ensure that the Government will meet this objective. In fact, in the face of the violent attacks that extreme-left parties are making on the social sector, in which the health sector will certainly be the next target to slaughter, I ask you, Mrs Sofia Araújo, if the Socialist Party continues to view the social sector as a strategic partner of the Ministry of Health. It is for us, PSD, that we believe in freedom and that people are always at first place, coexistence and cooperation between the public, private and social sectors of solidarity is an added value with evident evidence and advantages for the citizens. It remains to be seen whether this PS continues to believe in this social model or whether it is becoming a party that distrusts the private and social initiative, like its companions on the left. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, another issue has to do with the Health 24 Senior line, created by the previous government in 2014 and accompanying tens of thousands of elderly people. It happens that the current Government of the Socialist Party has decided to put an end to this important service of support for the Portuguese elderly, and the truth is that the confusion among the Government's supporters is absolutely complete in this regard. last April, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens voted together against the PSD proposal to reverse the suspension of the health line 24 Senior, draft resolution No 263 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) to boost their memory. But already this month, the PCP, the BE and the Greens fell into it, remembered the principles that they always defended and left the PS alone to vote against the new PSD proposal to restore the health line 24 Senior, and this measure passed. I refer to draft resolution No 308 / XIII ( 1. ( a), Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, moreover, the CDS also makes the same proposal as the PSD had already made. The question is, therefore, whether the PS finally adheres to the options of the entire House and whether, in practice, it places the interests of our elderly above what does not pass from a beer of those who know that they are not right. Go or not, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, assume that they were wrong when they took this support from the elderly, that this line should not have ended and that it should be restored as soon as possible? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u49	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u50	Mr President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, I would like to say that the Socialist Party is always working with the social sector. We have done so in the past, we are doing so in the present and we will certainly do so in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's not from now on. in the past we made large projects, which have resulted in large gains for the elderly population. in the continued care we have many partnerships, which have given many fruits. The elderly, for us, are really of great importance and we cannot forget them. I think it is interesting to hear this when we know that they have been able to cut into those who are most vulnerable in our society, as is the case with children and, in this case, with the elderly. The Socialist Party is here to help them and to support them now and always. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u51	For an intervention, Mrs Domicília Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :Read the 19 CDS resolution projects, all dated from the end of May 2016 and all of them dedicated exclusively to the elderly population, is a delight to the spirit of any humanist. Do you read and doubt: is this CDS the same thing that shared with the PSD four years of government with an absolute majority? Oh, my God! Do these four years not present these draft resolutions with fear that the left-wing parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic would lead them? Oh, my God! over four years, the PSD/CDS government did not apply the pension update law and left all pensions frozen above €262. And he did not hesitate even to make unconstitutional cuts, which were only reverted because the opposition, and of course the Left Block, appealed to the Constitutional Court. With the argument of austerity imposed on us by the troika, the Government kept 80 % of pensions frozen, even when, in 2015, Portugal was no longer under the Adjustment Programme. But the elderly, during the four years of PSD / CDS governance, have not only seen their pensions and social support decrease or disappear. As the remaining population living in Portugal, they saw food, water, light, household incomes, transportation, moderate rates in health centres and hospitals, suffered a brutal increase in taxes and, in many localities, they saw closing each other, in whole or in part, and even mail stations, where many of the elderly, how often with enormous mobility limitations, would receive their thin pensions. According to the official data available in 2012 there would be 297 000 poor elderly people in 2013, 313 000 and in 2014 would already be 360 000 at risk of poverty. We are therefore obliged to recognize two realities: the fight against poverty in the elderly must be a priority; and, in order to do so, it is necessary from the outset to reverse the path that the right has made. In 2010, they received the solidarity supplement for the elderly 235 000 elderly. However, the legislation was changed, with the biggest change in 2013, when the right lowered the reference value of the solidarity supplement for the elderly from €5022 to €4900 per year. in total, between 2010 and 2014, the number of beneficiaries of the solidarity complement for the elderly fell from 235 000 to 170 000, a breakdown of more than 25 %. at the same time as the poor elderly heard Paulo Portas on television talking about the increase of his pensions in 2 €, he went to be taken away 9 € in the solidarity complement for the elderly. Who no longer had almost anything, with the right, lost 7 euros each month that passed. Does Dr. Assumption Cristos no longer remember her own government? To protect and give rights to the elderly there are many things to do. One of them is to recover income. The Block will continue to defend that the updating of pensions will deepen. And as for the solidarity supplement for the elderly, who has already been raised by our proposal about €40 per year, the truth is that many older people still do not know that they have the right to it, nor do they know where to go, nor do they have any papers to present. They need to know that they have this right, so there should be a campaign to disseminate the solidarity complement for the elderly and their new rules, including on television and radio, because there are many people who listen to radio and who can't read or write. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The social rates of water and electricity should be lower for people who have less resources. We also need public services that the right has deteriorated. We need transportation with better times. There were short careers, which no longer go where they went before, and some schedules were also reduced. Transport must be a public service to us. To go to a health center, to go to the post office to get the pension, we need transportation at prices that can be paid. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We need a National Health Service as a public response. The exemption this new majority made in terms of moderate rates was an important step. It is necessary to carry out the draft resolution of the Left Block on the increase of public beds in the continuing care network, even taking advantage of internment wings that have been vacant, because it is known that more than 90 % of the elderly have difficulty access to this network. We need to strengthen home support. Home support services must have more professionals to work and schedules should be extended. There are health centres and parish boards that provide various services in terms of meals and cleaning, both of the users, and of their own houses and clothing, but this does not happen throughout the territory nor is there yet a response to all needs. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I know, as many of you will have, people who are institutionalized in the homes. There is a lack of knowledge on the part of family members about what is happening there, about the meals they have. Visiting hours are often very restrictive and are often given little incentive to the people who are there and who therefore sit on a chair with a connected TV that is often only connected by being, even when no one looks there—it is a background noise. It is necessary to end realities that are detrimental to our well-being and to our physical and mental health. I understand that there should be a manual of good practices, of mandatory application, in the homes of the elderly. A strategy is needed to combat the abandonment of the elderly and to find alternatives to institutionalization. It is urgent to resolve the problem of waiting lists in homes and to end shameful business in social security homes. In addition, the elderly should have access to culture and their political participation should be recognized. On all these issues, the Left Block has put forward proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u53	Only today he didn't show up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u54	Regardless of each of the concrete proposals that are under discussion here and that we will have the opportunity to discuss in the specialty, together with many other proposals from other parties, what the CDS proposed in this debate was a washing operation of its image. Who has turned our life into hell, who has deceived and abused us during the four years in which he has been in power, has now presented himself as our defender.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u56	The new majority that the Left Block is part of has made an important path in the recovery of income. Is everything done? No, he's not! The way for the convergence of pensions is missing with the minimum wage. Everyone's right to reform entirely after 40 years of work and discounts is lacking. Missing network of public services and capable social support. We have not missed this path in the past, nor will we miss it in the future, either in the discussion of legislative proposals or in the debate on the next budget. As always, we do not give up everything we need to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u57	Mr António Sales of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Aging actively is a right of modern societies. I would say more: it is a duty of legitimate power to promote the health and quality of life of senior age. The challenge is no longer to live anymore, it is to live with better quality of life. Our hospital culture and experience at the level of social institutions allow us to observe every day thousands of elderly people abandoned by families, so many others in an absolute state of loneliness and under precarious physical and psychological conditions. It is necessary to realize that diseases such as dementia, depression, sleep disorders, urinary and joint disorders are not fatalities, nor impediments to an almost normal life, but an opportunity for a readjustment, for a different life. It is necessary to remove the socially stigmatizing label from the 'dispensable' to all senior citizens, giving them the opportunity to transmit to younger people all the experience and wisdom of a socially and professionally active life. It is necessary to stimulate behavioral habits and attitudes during life, thus avoiding the high socioeconomic costs either due to high prevalence, or due to the high morbidity that many older diseases can cause. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, will there be a better way to assess the quality and health of a democracy than to look at how it treats its most vulnerable beings? Will there be better ways to assess the quality of a democratic rule of law than to monitor the rhythms that mark intergenerational solidarity? That is why the XXI Constitutional Government believes that it is necessary to create an environment conducive to the active and healthy ageing of citizens. in this sense, it is proposed that the Ministry of Health, in conjunction with the social action network and local authorities, promote the expansion and improvement of the national network of continuous care and other services of support to people in dependency through the strengthening of the number of vacancies in all its typologies, the dematerialization of the reference process, the bet on the response to home care and the strengthening of palliative care. The lack of political coordination of the network over the past four years has been based on priority investment in beds — 7700 beds — to the detriment of the domicile of Community responses, with a clear reduction in the number of places in continuing care teams integrated in the last two years — by the end of 2015, there were 6700 seats. It adds a high shortage of community responses in the area of palliative care, as well as in the area of mental health in continuous care. In 2015, implementation rates for the number of beds scheduled were below the planned — in the North ARS, 68% and ARS Alentejo, 14 % — and many of these implementation rates are attributable to limitations in the palliative care area. Currently, it is recalled, there are 31 hospitals that have intra-hospital support teams in palliative care. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the aim of this Government in 2016 and 2017, as stated in our Government Programme, to continue with the strengthening of the integrated continuous care network, creating more 756 vacancies by the end of 2017, as well as increasing the number of integrated continuous care teams, diversification of their competencies, day units and promotion of autonomy and training of caregivers. It is also the purpose of this government, during 2016, to create 45 integrated continuous care teams, 19 mental health units with 328 beds, 41 beds of palliative care units, with 7 intra-hospital teams and 18 community teams, while not forgetting the reinforcement in 50 places, estimated number of beds, in pediatric palliative care. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Pre- and post-graduate training in these different areas is also fundamental, being also a bet of this government, as bet is the National Program of Education for Health, Literacy and Self-care. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party looks beyond the evidence, exercises civic pedagogy not based on facilitation or political populism, looks beyond biased understandings for convenience or corporate interests. Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, when we accompany these CDS-PP diplomas in these matters and when we open up to the discussion of new proposals in Parliamentary committee, we prove that our design is the best interest of the Portuguese and the health of our elders.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u60	It is, in a debate on active aging, to talk about continuous care and palliative care is to understand responsibly that the best way to prevent downstream is to act upstream in a scaled and gradual intervention model that frames a multidimensional diagnosis of the elderly in Portugal. As you see, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, we are not turned to the past. The Socialist Party project is a future project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u61	Mr President, the Bureau records two entries for requests for clarification, the first of which is Mr Nuno Magalhães, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Sales, we note that the Socialist Party, contrary to what it did in the previous agenda of the CDS in relation to demography, considers consensus important. We note the change in attitude and even the difference in tone, in this important debate, between the PS and the other parties that support the government. That is why I wanted to tell you, because we really think it is a subject, as I said, suprapartaire that interests all Portuguese and Portuguese, that we must work together and quickly to find the best solutions. We are available for these diplomas to be lowered by the Commission, to be subject to any proposed amendment but to be able to do so quickly. That's what the subject requires. I hope, and that is my question, with the Socialist Party, so that we can do it quickly, particularly until the end of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u63	For clarifications, Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Sales, as I have not been able to obtain any reply from your colleague, on the issues I mentioned earlier. The honourable Member has come to say that the Socialist Party has indeed committed itself and has ensured that it will meet the objective of opening 756 beds by the end of 2016. Mr, but between 2011 and 2015, we opened 2800, so we don't find that number any extraordinary. What we find extraordinary, in terms of the extension of the national network of continuous care and, in particular, in the area of mental health, which is so close to the Minister who, every time he comes to this House, speaks of his commitment to this area - moreover, we find it very well, we follow him and, as you know, even we make proposals in this regard - is that some are ready, with everything ready, waiting to be opened and never open again. That was interesting to hear, sir. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u65	In addition, I would also like you to tell me, regarding the Health 24 line, whether or not it is to open. He said that in October, perhaps he no longer opens and is not well known when it is, he spoke about the important follow-up that the elderly need and we, of course, accompany this concern—we have indeed put forward proposals in that direction. The honourable Member will know that this Health 24 line has been accompanied by more than 20,000 elderly people, particularly in consultation, in psychological follow-up, in attendance when they needed it. That's what mattered. After all, will you revitalize this line, make it available to our elderly people? Yes or no, sir? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u66	In reply, Mr António Sales of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u67	Mr President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, the Socialist Party is not competing with the number of beds. Mostly, we don't want to compete with the past. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u68	In fact, we are committed to opening 756 beds by the end of 2017. It's the measure! It's the measure! Also with regard to the senior health line, as you know and as Mr. Minister of Health has already said, there is intention to revitalize this line from October and will therefore be a user line. As there is an operator change, it is a matter of operationalization. But Mrs Deputy says that the Socialist Party will revitalize that line. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u69	For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today, at the initiative of the CDS-PP, we discuss a topic of greater relevance, namely, active aging and protection of the elderly. We are faced with an issue for which we are all called and to which the Democratic Social Party attaches the greatest importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u71	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u72	Today, as in the past, we look at the issues of the ageing of our society at the same time as a challenge that we must face, but also as an opportunity that we cannot waste. A challenge, because one of the greatest achievements of mankind, achieved in recent decades, has to do with the significant increase in the average life expectancy. Life, this, which is desired to be lived with health, well-being, participation and security. An opportunity that we cannot waste, because for the increase of the average life expectancy, various measures should be taken to enable society to continue to count on the contribution of older people, both socially, culturally, economically, familiarly and emotionally, preferably in an intergenerational context. As Kofi Annan, former UN Secretary-General, said, and I quote: «...we age one day if we have this privilege. Let us therefore look at the elderly as we will be in the future. We recognize that elderly people are unique, with individual needs and talents and abilities, and not a homogeneous group because of age. Do not keep on seeking. ” in this sense, we believe that it is necessary to continue to promote a change of mentalities, which should be as urgent as possible in relation to the issues of aging, preventing it from being understood as a form of exclusion. The great challenge facing society in the coming decades is active aging. According to the World Health Organization, active aging is « the process of optimizing opportunities for health, participation and security, to improve people's life expectancy and quality of life as they grow older in a framework of solidarity between generations ». This process depends on multiple factors, which highlight the promotion of health throughout life (more years with more health), education, personal and family security, civic participation and the construction of permanent and intergenerational solidarity ties. What is not acceptable is that aging is a loss of life, a resigned loneliness, which is consistent in the minimum daily journey between the bed and the sofa and, again, the return to it. Unfortunately, it is the reality that many elderly people face in our country and in other developed countries, with high costs for themselves, for families and for society in general. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the process of modifying this model of ageing which I have just mentioned and the bet on an active ageing have been expressed in a set of measures adopted by the previous Government, which must continue in close partnership between the central government and the authorities, with the citizens and with the institutions of the social economy. These institutions that we respect very much and in whom we believe, because they are an emanation of the communities, we do not regard them as something that can be dispensed or not necessary. on the contrary, they are a value for our society, they are an emanation of the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in the context of Portugal 2020, for the first time a specific programme has been set up for the social area, the Operational Inclusion Social and Employment Programme, where there are several measures for this group of people, such as: culture for all ; local social development contracts (CDS) ; age +— programme of diversification of services that promote the quality of life, the well-being of the elderly and the active and healthy aging ; network of caregivers of proximity and the health line 24 Senior, which, unfortunately, this Government of the Left has been so quick to suspend, leaving many elderly abandoned. This suspension is as unacceptable as incomprehensible! Ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Commission, we recognise that due to the development of highly incapacitating diseases, the aging process is not always healthy and active. Many elderly people are suffering from diseases such as dementias, among others, requiring specialized responses to health care and well-being. Many are also the elderly who are subjected to physical and psychological abuse and neglect by third parties and who are required to guarantee their right to physical, economic, moral and social integrity. This was the concern of the PSD in presenting, together with the CDS-PP, in the current legislature, draft law No 62 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), which aims to criminalize the ill-treatment and abandonment of the elderly. It is in this sense that it is necessary to ensure the increase of specialized responses to these elderly citizens, as well as the promotion of the qualification and valorization of professionals who intervene in the different areas of support for older people. The citizens who are at this stage of life wish, in their vast majority, to take good advantage of their time, whether by spending their free time supporting the family, whether working in areas that give them special pleasure, whether by providing some of their hours in support to those who need the most, through voluntary actions (which is so generous and necessary in our country), whether by learning new technologies, some artistic style, gardening, among other crafts or arts—I would say it is never too late to learn new things—that is, simply by dedicating yourself to leisure. However, this process is not over. Every moment is a good time for a new requirement and a new challenge that entails happiness. The most important thing is that every elderly citizen is given the necessary conditions so that he can continue to be and feel a full citizen and respected by society.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u74	in the past, as a government and today as an opposition, the PSD continues to consider that the state must be able to meet the new expectations and needs of the elderly citizens. So far, we have not seen any strategy or set of measures aimed at promoting aging from this government. On our part, PSD, if we were in government,... [[PS laughter.]] ...we would be fulfilling the numerous measures provided for in our programme of support and promotion of a better and happier life for the millions of Portuguese elderly. The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has presented a set of projects aimed at achieving the desires we consider necessary: security, valorization, health support and social well-being for the elderly. These CDS-PP initiatives are based on the same purpose of the PSD that I reiterate here: working more and more to make Portugal a country of avant-garde in respect, inclusion and valorization of older people. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as Kofi Annan said: « The expansion of aging is not a problem, it is, first, one of the greatest achievements of mankind». We all know how to take advantage of it as an opportunity and a challenge. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u75	Mr Marisabel Moutela, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS welcomes the recent concern of both the CDS and the PSD with those who are most vulnerable, dependent and elderly in Portugal. We note that this was indeed one of the groups of Portuguese that was most scourged by the PSD government and the CDS, with measures that protected them at all and put them, up to many times, in situations of indignity, while, by choice of government policy, the richest would get richer and richer. After what we hear today, we realize that both the CDS and the PSD have not done what they could have done while they were government responsibilities, they want it to be the PS doing it now. The National Health Service is the great achievement of the social state in our country, generated gains, extended the quality of life to millions of Portuguese, reduced inequalities, which marked our society for decades, and placed to Portugal at the level of the other countries of Europe with regard to health care and well-being of populations. And the great worker of the National Health Service and its added value in the contribution to the social state, which will forever remain in the history of Portugal, was the Socialist Party. The contribution of the National Health Service to the social state, the implementation of the integrated continuous and palliative care network and the home support service have the brand and were the author of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The recognition and protection of the informal caregiver are also included in the electoral programme and in the Socialist Government programme. That's why, sirs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, with regard to some measures, we cannot fail to tell them: welcome to cooperate in the rule of action of this Government — the word given is an honest word. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u77	What we promise to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even because it has been assumed by the Socialist Government that all contributions come from wherever they come, but that people, the Portuguese, have as a centrality will always be welcome. But the government has drawn its own way and its own strategy and therefore the implementation of some of the measures we agree with and which we stand for has been well explained here by my colleague Mr Antonio Sales. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, by analyzing the set of projects brought here today and because they want the CDS, whether the PSD has systematically repeated and in all the microphones that the Socialist Government is taking the country to bankruptcy, we cannot fail to ask the following questions: without bankruptcy, without more taxes for the Portuguese, without pay cuts, without cuts in social support and fulfilling the goals of the deficit, what is your strategy in terms of timetable and fit in the public expenditure for the measures that today want the PS to implement? This is the contribution they have to make, in line with what they have repeatedly said, that we are on the way to bankruptcy. We do not want bankruptcy and therefore say how these proposals fit in. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u78	In reply, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u79	Mr President, I am grateful for the non-question put to me by the honourable Member, but let me tell you that we have always been concerned about the elderly. We have had it in the past, we have worked in this direction and, indeed, I have cited many of our initiatives. Who is welcome to the debate is the PS, because unfortunately it is found that it did not bring even a single idea. As for the projects, I will not answer you, because we are not your authors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u80	in the past, the brand of the PS government was the freezing of minimum social and rural pensions. in the present, the brand that has is the deactivation of the health line 24 Senior. Everything is said about your support for the elderly! It's all said! There's nothing else to say! It's just dialogue, conversation, empty promises! That is what you call 'the word given, the word honored', a hand full of nothing! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u81	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recently, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto accused the PCP of considering a farce discussing projects about the elderly. Mrs. Member, we understand: it is not a farce to discuss projects about the elderly, what it is a farce to be the CDS to present them, after what you have been doing for four years in the government,... [[PCP applause.]] ...and with an apology speech. In other words, the CDS, faced with what it did while it was in the government, comes to say: "But it was not our fault, we were obliged". Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the minimum requirement for anyone in the government is that they take on their responsibilities...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u83	And who he is too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u84	... and do not apologize for what you have done, because no one has forced you. No one forced you to take the measures they took when they were in the government. The Portuguese is that, unfortunately, they were forced to take your measures and have to fight them, which, in fact, did very well, taking into account the results of last October 4, which have separated you from the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u85	What money would you pay your pensions with? With yours, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not one Portuguese who believes, one only, that if the CDS were in the Government it would come forward with these proposals. No one believes that and it's very easy to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u88	Just look at what you proposed and imposed when you were in government. You have only failed to impose a 10% cut on pensions because the Constitutional Court has prevented it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u89	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u90	It was you who closed public services, putting the elderly population further away from health services, courts and everything. It was you who raised the retirement age. That is to say, you have violently assaulted the older citizens, particularly those with lower resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u92	Well, what does this debate explain now? It is easy to explain: the CDS is now in opposition and decided to select an election market niche, which is the elderly. This is not new, the CDS was already the party of the fighters, the party of the farm, the party of the taxpayer...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u93	It's the party of all Portuguese. Get used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u94	A few days ago it was the problem of birth, but since it didn't work very well, it was necessary to find another: the elderly. That's a lot! So, for the CDS is easy, you might give some votes in the future! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the serious way to make politics, in our opinion. That's not the real way. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, if you are Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish, I will finish. We will not exempt ourselves, we will not steal any debate on this issue of the elderly or any other subject that you want to discuss, but we can not fail to denounce the political whitening operation that the CDS intends to do with this debate. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u95	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u96	Mr President, this is a short speech. Mr António Filipe says that this is not a serious way of doing politics. I would like to recall that one unserious way of doing politics was what the CFP did: in the previous State budget, when it was opposed, it proposed an increase of €25 per month for each social and rural minimum pension and in the current State budget, in the Government, reduced €15 in its proposal, from €25 to €10. This is the difference in the CFP : he defended a value when he was in opposition and defended another when he supported the government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u97	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS is now discussing some measures in the area of justice, particularly proposals for amendments to the Criminal Code and the Civil Code and also a draft resolution aimed at bringing the elderly, young people and children together in child protection committees. However, with regard to the two bills, we are again faced with an attempt to criminalize behaviour, at a time when people experience great financial constraints, social problems. This isn't new, by the way. If we pay attention to what has been discussed in the committee on the previous package of measures for the elderly, we find that there is a broad consensus of civil society to reject this approach of criminalization of issues that essentially have a social response. Academic entities, magistrates, professional orders, the social sector, all converge in the sense that these matters are of a social nature, have a social response and not a criminal policy response. Mrs. Members, we do not agree with this approach of general prevention of behaviour that is ethically reprehensible, and some of them are already criminalized. One example: it is intended to criminalize those who place an elderly person in an unlicensed institution, when, even, they are perhaps those with less resources who resort to this situation and, thus, the responsibility lies with the State and not with each individual citizen in particular. But, in the civil context, we also tend to move forward with proposals—particularly, some of them already exist in our legal system, not in the expression proposed in this model—in some way counter-natural, because, basically, the question that can be asked is this: if we are penalizing someone who has already been convicted of abandoning or not providing food, does that individual have an expectation to communicate from the inheritance of those who have left? It doesn't make much sense. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In fact, they are far-reaching measures, they have neither a sensible approach nor a comprehensive approach. It is not the answers that these problems deserve and, in my view, it does not seem to me that this is the way. On the other hand, it is proposed to join the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Young Persons with competence over the elderly. He invited them to make a visit to what has been the experience of the child protection committees and also the protection committees of the elderly at municipal level throughout the country. In fact, it makes no sense to treat things differently because the problems of the elderly are different from the problems of children and young people. This solution will eventually be harmful, because the more different things are treated together, the less protection is being given. from my perspective, these PSD and CDS initiatives are contaminated with some situations that are even stigmatizing. The more you add and do not differ, the lower the degree of protection. Mrs. Members, establishing bridges between generations is not to turn new against the elderly or to treat unnecessarily children, young people and the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u99	Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in closing this debate on the promotion of active ageing and the protection of the elderly, it should be emphasized that the generality of countries such as Portugal faces several decisive challenges for its collective future. On the one hand, demographic ageing and, on the other, demographic loss and low birth rates, because with the decrease in birth rates, coupled with the increase in average life expectancy, is being reversed irreversibly by the age pyramid, by the reduction in the number of children and young people, on the one hand, and by the increase in the number of older people, on the other. Let us look at one example, among others. in Europe, if the number of elderly people per 100 young people is currently on average 120, in our country this number reaches 139, which makes us one of the European countries with the highest aging rate. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has not ceased to contribute in these matters by presenting initiatives on both support for birth and support for the elderly. For example, as early as March 2012, the PSD Parliamentary Group presented draft resolution No 254 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ), by an active ageing, however approved, although only with the votes of PS, PS and CDS, and which took the form of Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 61 / 2012. And at the time, in this project, the PSD proposed, among other measures, the revision of social network legislation, the incentive to volunteering and the valorization of active aging, particularly with senior volunteering, enhancing the intergenerational relationship and supporting the elderly in isolation, favoring their physical and mental health. But we have also presented draft resolution No 308/ XIII ( 1 ) in this Parliament. ( a ) by which we recommended to the Government to take measures to support informal caregivers and to approve their status. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I cannot fail to express the rejection by the PSD of the fact that the Socialist Party, as has already been mentioned here, voted against one of the proposals for that draft resolution, in which the Government was recommended the urgent restoration of the functioning of the 24 Senior Health Line. This line provided support to more than 20 000 elderly people, many of them in isolation, and gave them very complete support, helping with the marking of consultations and examinations, the processing of recipes and providing psychosocial follow-up. This line was therefore an important instrument to support the independence of the elderly, contributing to their autonomy and thus also to their active ageing. Now, the PS voted against maintaining this senior support line, which clearly shows the huge difference between the words and the acts of the current government, as we today had the opportunity to confirm during this debate. But despite the isolated opposition of the PS, the recommendation to the Government on the 24 Senior Health Line, one of the proposals of the CDS under consideration today, was approved, waiting for the Executive to comply now with what Parliament has approved. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD considers that people over the age of 60 must be valued and supported, either in dependency situations, or when they are fortunately healthy, if, as I said, families, society and the State themselves should do everything to facilitate their personal achievement and maintain and strengthen their full integration into the community. For this reason, in the last legislative elections, the Portugal Front coalition proposed, in its programme, that the contribution of the elderly be valued at various levels, particularly through measures promoting active ageing. Some of the parliamentary initiatives under discussion today are based on the electoral proposals that, with the CDS-PP, the PSD-led coalition — remember, winner of the last legislative elections —... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u101	... presented to the Portuguese in October last year. This is the case with the introduction of part-time reform, in order to stimulate active ageing and mitigate the impact of entry into the reform. And there are many other subjects which today deserve our full attention and which I could remember here. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say this: in the PSD we also believe that companies should be encouraged to allow their older workers to effectively manage their careers according to age. But we have more proposals. One of them is a facilitating proposal for active ageing aimed at public servants, facilitating the extension of their working life after the age of 70, since, of course, voluntary. We have a growing commitment in the PSD to having these matters as priority on the political agenda, at a collective time when these matters are so relevant to contemporary and inclusive societies. One purpose that the PSD took up in the last elections — through, as I said, the electoral coalition that won the same legislative elections — was to continue to strengthen the support mechanisms that ensure the quality of life for the elderly who wish to continue living with their families, looking for options in the face of institutionalization. In summary, the overall objective of these proposals was, as it could not be, to improve the quality of life of people who grow old, considering them increasingly as contributors to society and factors of their own personal realization. The PSD considers that only by adopting measures that favour active ageing in employment, which increase the participation of older people in society and promote and support their independent life can the country truly be a whole, a community of generations, linked to each other by a common destiny. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD believes. The PSD will continue to contribute so that the spirit of faction in the discussion of these matters does not prevail over a genuine national design, which is to have a society for all ages, in full respect for its rights, freedoms and guarantees. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u102	Mr Paulo Portas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time, the CDS and its President marked this debate and launched this issue. Whether Portugal is the oldest nation state with stable borders in Europe is a reason for pride and responsibility. That Portugal can become one of the fastest ageing countries in Europe already in its long-term demographic winter is a high-risk indicator and a considerable sustainability challenge. The last thing that a situation like this recommends is an exercise of demagogy. The perspective we intend to present is that the happy increase in life expectancy, on the one hand, and the nature of the globalization in which we live, on the other hand, have changed both the expectations and insecurity of the worker and the company that is truly for a new organization of work throughout a larger life that we all have to prepare ourselves. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Anyone who knows social history or believes that the value of work is at the heart of human dignity recognizes the vital importance that workers' movements, industrial literature and papal encyclicals on work have had in progress, which can only be classified as extraordinary, which Europe has made over a century in the humanization of labor relations. Interestingly, it is less cited the non-relevant role in this progress that two conservatives had, in the context of their time: Bismark, author of social insurance, and Churchill, legislator of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u105	contrary to what is often heard in this House, the reconstruction of Europe and its model of prosperity, from the tragic ruins of the II War, was not done with the culture of the protest; they were made step by step with the culture of commitment between employers and employees and with the culture of the possible balance between the generations of assets and wings generations of the elderly. These facts, being preclared inspiration, do not come to us, however, to face a world that vehemently exceeded the dogmas of ideology and the certainties of technocracy. About 100 years ago, the life expectancy at birth for women was 40 years; today, fortunately, it is 83 years. For men, he was 36 years old and today, fortunately, he's 77 years old. The relevant issues are, therefore, much more complex than the scope of the acquired rights. There are therefore multiple examples that should call for our concern. Can a social security system continue to be essentially distribution, i.e. today's workers discount to fund today's pensions, when Portugal, still above the economy in worryingly modest values and the demography in polar values, is it far from having the assets needed to pay more and more pensioners who happily live more and more years? How are families, companies and laws organized for the new duration of work throughout life, when the perception about the age of reform is associated, at least culturally, with a guillotine effect, as if the experience, knowledge and maturity of the so-called "grey generation" were indispensable qualities or uncomfortable quantities in a civilization inclined to heroicize in too much what is ephemeral? Are legal devices and judicial systems attached, for example, in the field of criminal and successive rights, to deal with phenomena, often invisible and sometimes grotesque, abandonment or ill-treatment in the face of older people who live longer and who, when dependent, depend more strongly? Can governments consider themselves arrogantly self-sufficient, as if the State had means or merits to invade, in a totalizing way, the facts and surprises of life, when the aging of our society recommends, if it is not by conviction that it is prudent, the choice for policies of contractualization with whom it is on the ground, with whom it knows the family contexts and with whom it offers concrete answers? The warning to navigation is this: if we insist on putting ideology in front of reality, we will end up producing illusions and not making what is our first duty, that of improving, as far as possible, the policies that are viable for people in particular. [[CDS-PP applause.]] If we add to these dilemmas, which are already difficult, the novelties of globalisation, which change the nature of the economy and impact on the organization of work, we will see how sometimes the determinism of the left ones, in most cases, can literally go against the global economy and the competition of all countries with all, at the same time as it characterizes it. The mistakes we make in these fundamentals are expensive, both in the employment of the younger and in the tranquility of the older. Not to mention, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, dramatize, but just to exemplify, the world in which we live is certainly perplexing, but we often forget that we do not control it. We only control the realism with which we adapt to the world in which we live. [[CDS-PP applause.]] If we do not want the country which, by chance, has made the first globalization collapsing melancholy, due to functional inadaption to the circumstances and also to the opportunities of the open economy and digital society, we must change our attitude. Again, we exemplify with the practice of cases: in the world where we live, the biggest taxi company is not the owner of taxis — Uber; the largest housing provider has no houses — Airbnb; the largest telecommunications company has no own infrastructures — Skype; the most powerful retailer has no inventory — Alibaba; one of the most popular owners of new media does not create content — Facebook; the most sought-after movie distributor has no cinemas — Netflix; and so on. in such a world, increasingly technotic, which obviously changes the frequency, duration and nature of employment throughout life, makes sense to devote the essential of our energies to ensuring that in the state, but only in the state, work 35 hours, when four fifths of the workers are 40 hours old, or that in the administration royalties are perpetual, but the creation of employment, that in the private sector, is either flexible or simply increasing unemployment? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Does it make any sense, in an open economy, that needs to export, regardless of the added value of the ports and allow some trade unions, who are not all, to capture growth with their corporateism, coming to the irony of making agreements not to limit dismissal but to prohibit hiring? Will it make any sense, as some in this House would wish and still mentioned today, to give a more static character to the age of reform, when the evolution of life expectancy is manifestly more dynamic? Or will it make any sense to threaten a reform of work that is moderate and flexible, when the biggest problem of young people is unemployment and one of the most interesting challenges for older people is a transition that is smoother and more useful for reform? In globalization, rigidity and dogmatism are lethal. Flexibility and commitment win. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Anyone who has the notion that in the American economy, the most competitive in the world, on average, throughout life, people change almost 11 times their jobs, and there is full employment, but that on this side of the world, in Europe, the closest example of this is half - growth has ceased to guarantee a minimum social pact and not only there is no full employment as there is brutality in young and long-term unemployment - will be forced, if you want to do something, to stop thinking. As I would say in the famous phrase "Houston, we have a problem here on the old continent". And the worst service we can provide to the beneficiaries of a longer life is a filling of ideology that will make every stage of their life difficult, including the last and deserved steps, with security and tranquillity. It would be much more useful, as our initiative does, to look at best practices in Europe — because there are — the use and reuse of part-time work and part-time reform, the consent of the initiative and the autonomy of will in the contribution of older people to a society of which they are part and not so hard or the permanent adaptation of the balance between flexibility and security in a world where clearly promising 'all for life' is the high risk of lying even without intent. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is the necessary debate, even if it is not an easy political one, as it will be sooner or later, the debate that will force us to look at the model of social security organization, which we believe, provided we are careful with public finances, provided the consequences of demography are understood and a strategy is established to recover the economy. Not even the older ones deserve deficits that devour their hopes, nor is it fair to note that the younger ones believe in the integrity of a public pension, when anyone who knows how to account realize that there is something in those accounts that is not right. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mr President, I hoped I would not have to ask you for one minute of tolerance, as I was often given generously. But thank you. I agreed with the President of my party, whom I very much like and whom I trust, to make this intervention in a debate which the party, as an institution, considered relevant. I want to leave to everyone, without distinction, my colleagues on the bench, my government partners, my political opponents, the diligent employees of this House, the journalists, for their critical sense, a thank you. I leave friends here on every bench and, as much as I'm aware, I don't leave enemies, nor did I. Well done, good work for Portugal! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD, standing, PS and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard Mr Paulo Portas, who is now leaving Parliament after well over 20 years of political life. Whether or not to agree with the ideas of Mr Paul Portas, it is undeniable that he was a politician, and it remains, that at various times he was able to counter adverse circumstances. during these years, as CDS leader, consolidated a party that in the early 1990s seemed to be defining. He's been in high public office. In Parliament, it leaves a very vivid memory of its speaking qualities, its performance in so many 15-year debates and the famous sounds made of good Portuguese and very effective Portuguese. Mr. Paulo Portas, I wish you the greatest personal and professional happiness in this new phase of your life. [[PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u107	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u108	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u109	Mr President, to basically stop the same effect that Mr President has just addressed to the House. That is to say, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, if Mr President will allow me to speak a few words to Mr Paulo Portas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u110	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, at the moment that two decades later Mr Paulo Portas will cease his duties as a parliamentary officer, to give a note, I would say very much on behalf of this bench and of the Members who make up it, respect, admiration, sense of cooperation and cooperation that it was possible to maintain with the CDS-PP and its President, Mr Paulo Portas, in recent years, either when, by known political and electoral vicissitudes, we have joined together with the intention of, in coalition, to support the policies of three governments, as is the current case, as parties to the position, in which we have each followed their path but still with respect, with a sense of proximity and with the common objective of serving the interests of the Portuguese and our Country. on this occasion, I wanted to tell Mr Paulo Portas that, although we have not always agreed, despite having our differences, it was a privilege for us to share part of this path with you, with your party and to be able to verify that, despite these differences, we have also seen someone who is committed to raising and protecting the national interest with a sense of State, with a sense of collaboration and with a democratic sense of respect for the opinions of others, both those who originated from this bench, and those who originated from other benches. I therefore wish you good luck and happiness at this new stage of your life. And, on behalf of the PSD, once again, I leave a record of respect, admiration, consideration and, in my case, of personal esteem and friendship. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u112	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u113	Mr. Jorge Lacão, I suppose it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u114	Yes, Mr. President, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u115	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u116	Mr President, Mr Paulo Portas, it is no novelty to anyone that this bench, and I personally consider it to be a controversial political figure. It is not new to anyone who considers this bank, in a frontal manner, a political opponent, as, indeed, Mr Deputy, recently mentioned in relation to us. But it will also not be new to anyone who believes — and believes with deep conviction — that if anything honours democracy is the capacity that democracy has to establish within itself the value of contradiction as a factor of freedom in the societies it participates in. And with this, the differences that we have manifested over the years between the political guidelines pursued by my party and the political guidelines pursued by your party were surely a factor in strengthening democratic pluralism in Portuguese society. I would therefore like to say to Mr Paulo Portas, on behalf of the PS bench, that rather than the circumstances of a conservative political orientation or political orientation of democratic socialism, it is very important that this and beyond that we can recognize that we have the ability to identify ourselves as Democrats. And it is like a Democrat, Mr Paulo Portas, who, on behalf of the Socialist Party's bench, I want to wish him the greatest personal happiness in the continuation of his life and to tell him that, regardless of leaving his position as a Member, we will always be prepared to, if any, face politically on behalf of the great values of Portuguese democracy. Well done, Mr. Paulo Portas. Congratulations on your life! Pluralist democracy will continue to be thankful when we converge and equally when we differ. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u117	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u118	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I suppose it is also for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u119	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u120	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u121	Mr. President, Mr. Paulo Portas, the parliamentary plage has already been used to us at this moment, but this has a special curiosity: the congratulations and farewells are to Mr. Paulo Portas, because I believe that no one in this Chamber or in the Country will believe that politician Paulo Portas has entered either sabbatical or holiday. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and CDS-PP.]] Aware of the various and profound differences we have had over the years, of the lively debates that, both in the government and in the opposition, the Left Block Parliamentary Group has had with the CDS and with Mr. Deputies or, at the time, Minister Paulo Portas, it is obvious that, on our part, we recognize that it has always been a huge challenge to be in politics, with this rise in the treatment of Portuguese and with this ability to always find an argumentative, new and innovative way to confront us. I believe that this is the fundamental point that in politics there must exist for those who have different views of society and different opinions of the world: respect for these visions and for those who fight for them. from the Left Block, of course, we will continue in this debate in the future, which will certainly not fail to have as an active element as well. [[Congratulations from BE, PSD, PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u122	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the same floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u123	Mr President, Mr Paulo Portas, I believe that no one will be expecting, of course, that the differences and political differences that marked the political confrontations that we have had will be eliminated at this moment... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... in particular in the past four years, while the honourable Member has joined the previous Government, but I also believe that no one would expect that this would happen, as no one would, certainly fail to record that these differences and divergences will continue to exist without prejudice to the one who, institutionally, has never ceased to be a respect for these urban rules and a mutual respect relationship, which has been maintained over the years with the CFP Parliamentary Group. I confess to you, Mr Paulo Portas, that the temptation at this time to make an exchange, which, not wanting to be offensive, could recover the irrevocability of decisions in politics, is great,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ...but I won't. But certainly Mr Paulo Portas will understand that the intention would not be improperly motivated. In any case, I would like to wish you, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, all the happiness for your personal life in the future. [[PCP, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u124	For the same purpose, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this occasion, I would also like to wish Mr Paulo Portas personal success in the new battles he has decided to embrace at this new stage of his life. Despite the distance that separates us from the differences, from the political point of view, sometimes very sharp, and from the confrontations in the political debates that we are engaged in, which is, in fact, proper to our democratic experience, we recognize in Mr Paulo Portas a combative person and, above all, always very cordial, guided by respect relations that I believe have always been present. I therefore take advantage of it to wish Mr Paulo Portas success in the future. [[Congratulations from The Greens, PSD, PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u126	I think the CDS-PP board leader, Mr Nuno Magalhães, also means his justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my responsibility and honour to address a few words on behalf of the CDS and its Parliamentary Group to whom I started my policy, to my colleague Paulo Portas. That is why it is very difficult — above all, it is difficult to say it briefly — how much we admire your talent, your intelligence, your ability to work, your sense of humor, your sense of state, your sense of service to the country and, above all, your ability to mobilize us all in differences, of, as he often says, to value our virtues and to minimize our defects. I will not, therefore, monopolize or exceed myself in the many adjectives that I would like to use, because I know that he would not and I respect that, I will only say, on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, what I know that everyone, Mrs and Mrs. Members and militants of the CDS, they always tell you and the way they say to you: Thank you very much, Paul. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD, PS and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u128	We therefore conclude our agenda with regard to the first item. Before we enter the voting period, I would like to ask Mrs Emilia Santos to read the file, which, in the meantime, has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted, draft resolutions Nos 352 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — proposes the universalization of pre-school education from three years of age ( PCP ), 353 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Proposals for measures to combat child poverty ( CFP ), 354 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the extension of the daycare system and child support equipment ( PCP ), 355 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to strengthen the Child and Youth Protection Committees with a view to the effectiveness of its intervention ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 356 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by building a residence for students at the Rio Major Sports School ( PCP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, and the projects of lein.o 253 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the donation of mobile goods to museums of the Portuguese Network of Museums ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 254 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Withdraws the Tax Authority from its jurisdiction for the enforcement of moderate rates ( PCP ), which is lower than 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u130	We shall then enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system for this purpose. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 201 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Deputies Amadeu Soares Alberaria, do PSD, Carlos César, Luís Soares, Miranda Calha, Pedro Carmo and Pedro Delgado Alves, do PS, Heitor Sousa, Mariana Mortágua and Mois Ferreira, do BE, and António Filipe and Diana Ferreira ( PCP), perfezing 212 deputies, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u131	Mr President, for some reason there is one Member or one Member of BE, in addition to those who have been indicated, which is not accounted for, but, as it is visible, the whole bench is present and therefore the 19 Members of BE should be counted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u132	So they're all present, but someone didn't sign up and didn't give up for it. We can proceed to the votes, starting with vote No 85 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of the former Regional Secretary for Economic Affairs and External Cooperation of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, Dr. José Agostinho Gomes Pereira de Gouveia ( PSD and PS ). I call on the Secretary to read out the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u133	Mrs. Members, vote No 85 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) shall be of the following content: « Regional Secretary for Economic Affairs and External Cooperation over two mandates from 1992 to 2000, Dr. José Agostinho Gomes Pereira de Gouveia will undoubtedly remain in Madeira's political, economic and social history. As a governor, he was responsible for opening new bridges of communication between Madeira and the Continent, which led to the realization of major and important projects for our region, including the expansion of the airport. in his professional life he was committed to making Madeira at the forefront in the area of telecommunications. for the work left as Regional Secretary, for his dedication and commitment to defending the interests of Maderians and social causes, the Assembly of the Republic approves a vote of regret for the death of Dr. José Agostinho Gomes Pereira de Gouveia, addressing the deepest and sincere condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u134	We shall vote on vote No 85 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD and PS ), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 87 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Mohamed Abdelaziz, Secretary-General of the Police Front ( BE and PS ). I ask Secretary Pedro Alves to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u135	Mrs. Members, vote No 87 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) shall be of the following content: « He died on May 31, at the age of 68, Mohamed Abdelaziz, Secretary-General of the Police Front. Born in the then Spanish Sahara, Mohamed Abdelaziz devoted his whole life to the cause of the independence of Sarauí, having in 1968 been one of the founders of the National Liberation Movement Sarauí and, in 1973, of the People's Liberation Front of Saguia El Hamra and Rio do Ouro, better known as Frente Polisário, that he was leader from 1976 until the date of his death. He studied Medicine in Morocco and, abdicating any individual comfort and success, sacrificed his life for the liberation of his land from any colonial domain and for the recognition of his people's right to self-determination and independence. in saying of his fellow convictions and struggle, Mohamed Abdelaziz knew how to associate wisdom and weighting with the sincere and firm commitment for the liberation of Western Sahara. It was always unanimously considered a consensus maker, who rejected the use of terrorism and who always defended that the guerrillas against Western Sahara occupants did not have civilian populations and equipment as a target. Mohamed Abdelaziz also considered that the implementation of the referendum on Western Sahara's independence was something totally irrevocable. Man of firm convictions and a certain fighter for a just and lasting solution to the land of the Sahara and against the forgetting of the international community, Mohamed Abdelaziz was fully involved in political-diplomatic negotiations aimed at this objective, under the aegis of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of Mohamed Abdelaziz and conveys its condolences to all those who have committed themselves to finding a just and lasting peaceful solution, under the aegis of the United Nations, which ensures the rights of the people of Sarauí. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u136	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 87 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( BE and PS ), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u137	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u138	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u139	Mr President, it is only to say that the CDS bench will present to the Bureau a statement of vote on this regret vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u140	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u141	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u142	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u143	Mr President, it is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u144	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to vote No 89 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of Vicente da Câmara ( CDS-PP, PSD and PS ). I would like to ask Secretary Idália to read it out.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u145	Mrs. Members, vote No 89 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) shall be of the following content: « Vicente Maria do Carmo da Câmara was born in 1928, in Lisbon, in a Portuguese family of customs and values and with long aristocratic tradition. He died unexpectedly last May 28, exactly in the same city that saw him born. Targeted for a professional career linked to the business and oil sector, it has shown since early artistic inclination. It was in the fairy that Vicente da Câmara was noticed and distinguished, achieving, with a vibrant passion and a shining talent, dignifying traditional Portuguese music and making an invaluable contribution to Portuguese communities abroad to the proximity of Portugal, this is the sign of his performance on stage in the most diverse countries, from France to South Africa, or from Canada and Macau. His commitment and dedication ensured him a prominent place in the gallery of the undisturbed and abundantly recognized personalities of traditional and popular Portuguese music, leaving a unique and indelible brand in Portuguese society. Vicente of the Chamber died as he lived, in the company of the family and so many and so many friends, who had for him esteem, admiration and pride. The Assembly of the Republic presents its most heartfelt condolences to the grieving family and recalls Vicente of the House as an individual reference of Portuguese music, which will always represent an example and inspiration for the generations of Portuguese fans and artists. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u146	We shall vote no 89 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP, PSD and PS ), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u147	Let us turn to vote No 86 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Congratulations on the release of Ukrainian MP Nadiia Savchenko ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ). Mrs. Members, it was required by the CFP that each parliamentary group should have two minutes to vote on this vote. Mr João Oliveira of the CFP, first of all, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies : Nadiia Savchenko was an officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces having participated in the Donbass war, performing functions in the front line as a broker of artillery fire and integrating as a volunteer the Aidar Battalion, an assault battalion, consisting essentially of volunteers from the designated Maidan self-defense forces and the right sector. The Aidar battalion, created in May 2014, on the initiative of one of the commanders of these designated self-defence forces of Maidan, Sergey Melnichuk, received funding from one of the main Ukrainian oligarchs Ihor Kolomoyskyi. This Aidar battalion was known for its association with neo-Nazi and extreme-right currents and the display of Nazi symbolism and is referred to by atrocities and war crimes committed in the Lugansk district against the population. Savchenko was accused and tried by the involvement in the death of two Russian journalists in June 2014 in the vicinity of the city of Lugansk and sentenced, in March, to 22 years in prison, having now been pardoned during the exchange with two Russian citizens prisoners in Ukraine. It was already after his arrest in Russia that he joined the homeland party of Yulia Timoshenko, and integrated his lists into the Ukrainian legislatures of October 2014, being elected Deputy of Rada, then passing to the reserve in the Armed Forces. A vast mistification campaign by Nadiia Savchenko is currently under way trying to turn an extremist fighter from a neo-Nazi battalion into a supposed hero of national liberation and symbol of the struggle against Russia. This operation for the whitening of Nadiia Savchenko is not disconnected from the very situation in Ukraine, from the violent siege of civil, political and trade union freedoms and rights, from security and repressive measures of anti-communism, the persecution and repression of anti-fascists and Democrats. Condemning brutal violence and the denial of fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees exercised by the Kiev authorities, defending a political and peaceful solution to the conflict in the Donbass, by the CFP, we will not contribute to the gravity of the situation in Ukraine being ignored and for the action of the Nazi-fascist forces to be bleached or forgotten. We will therefore vote against the vote signed by PS, PS and CDS Members. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u149	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have no sympathy for what Nadiia Savchenko politically represents and we have the deepest repudiation for the ideas she has defended and for which she fights. Therefore, as far as this aspect of this vote is concerned, we reject what it represents and, above all, the ideas it legitimates, but we do not hide that the liberation of Nadiya Savchenko was made with the agreement of the two parties, Ukraine and Russia, and that this may mean a step towards the end of the existing conflict that has suffered as the main harm of the Ukrainian people. Therefore, we will not be against this vote as far as this part is concerned, since we hope it will be in the direction of peace. So, and to conclude, the Left Block will opt for abstention in relation to the vote now appreciated. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u151	Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament must point out the release of Nadiia Savchenko not only for its release, but also for the principle of dialogue between the two developing countries and, above all, for the release of prisoners on both sides of the barricade. Nadiia Savchenko was sentenced to 22 years in prison, was arrested...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u153	It's Nazi!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u154	Mr President, I do not admit to you calling me that, that I am not ashamed to have that kind of speech for a Member of this House! [[PCP protests.]] If your ideological prejudice prevents you from seeing the truth, I don't contribute to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u155	I'm asking the ladies. Members to continue to intervene with usual moderation and calm. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u156	Mr President, the PSD does not accept democratic lessons from the Communist Party and does not need to receive them. That's what was missing in this House! Especially coming from the Communist Party! [[PSD applause.]] The statement we heard earlier reveals total ignorance and only prejudiced by a situation of someone who was arrested and tried in hiding in Russia. But that is not what we should stress, Mr President. This is only the visible face of an exchange of prisoners between the two sides of two countries at war, of two countries in conflict. The release of prisoners from both parts of the agreement is the first step in seeking peace, because it is not prejudice that security is built up or that peace is guaranteed among the peoples. In any political conflict between States, among nations, the first step towards reaching agreement and peace for the people is the exchange of prisoners. Nadiia Savchenko is only the visible or more mediated face of a set of Russian and Ukrainian prisoners who have been released by mutual agreement, so we must emphasize this liberation. Mr President, I conclude by recalling that Nadiia Savchenko is a Ukrainian Member of Parliament, he is a member of the Council of Europe and the Committee on Migration, Refugees and Displaced Persons. There were several members of this House, Portuguese Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly ( Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe ), who fought for this cause. We must therefore remember not only this prisoner but, above all, all those who, now and in the future, are released and can contribute to peace between two countries so important to the balance of European and world geopolitics. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u157	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To make it clear, what is being discussed is the sole and sole aim of welcoming positive development in relation to a conflict on the European continent. The profile of the person is not at stake,... [[PCP laughter.]] ... there is no question of any adherence to what their visions may be, which are not ours, to their intervention in the past, which we do not subscribe to. It is merely to welcome an aspect sought by the Council of Europe, sought by the OSCE, with a view to ensuring, with balance between the two sides, something which is a positive sign that eventually recovers the spirit that is underlying the Minsk process and has sought to solve the problems between the two peoples. It is not at the moment at stake, it is only at stake to recognize a humanitarian effect which both parties have succeeded in agreeing and which may eventually show availability in future steps to take in this direction. It is therefore this process, and only this process, this spirit of commitment which we hope can be a glimpse of a solution to that conflict, which is intended to greet, forgetting all the other elements that are not fundamental to the analysis of this vote... [[Forgetting?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u159	Forgetting, in the sense that it is not relevant to take the point of " pointing finger" to this or that. What is intended, alone and exclusively, is to welcome a positive advance and emphasise something that must and can be cherished by all European peoples as a simple, modest first step to resolve a conflict that is, in fact, worrying in that context. Therefore, it is only intended with this measure and with this intervention to follow initiatives which, at European level, deserve a significantly wider consensus and which, I repeat, is expected to represent a first step in overcoming a particularly complex and difficult conflict. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u160	Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To make it clear, this is a vote that welcomes peace with a view to building peace.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u162	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u163	It is a vote that welcomes a decision resulting from an agreement between the parties. It is a vote that does not intend to judge anyone's history or history. That is why it is intended to be a vote that welcomes a decision which, within the European framework, can contribute to building this peace and that peace is our goal, nothing more. Nor do we aim to make these votes any kind of political-party instrumentation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u164	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 86 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the release of Ukrainian MP Nadiia Savchenko ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PCP and the Greens and abstains from BE and PS Member Renato Sampaio.]] [[It is as follows: The Assembly of the Republic commends the Russian and Ukrainian authorities for their release on 25 May 2016 from the Ukrainian deputy Nadiia Savchenko who has been in Russian soil since 2014. Arrested on 17 June 2014 in Ukraine and sentenced to 22 years in prison in Russia, the Ukrainian pilot and political activist was released in an exchange of prisoners between Ukraine and Russia. In addition to the representative of the Ukrainian Parliament, Nadiia Savchenko is still a member of the Committee on Migration, Refugees and Displaced Persons, of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This liberation, for which much contributed to the activism of the prisoners' families, marks a significant moment in the relations between Moscow and Kiev, as well as a practical advance in the diplomatic negotiations of the Minsk process that must be marked. The Assembly of the Republic, which accompanied this case, therefore aims to encourage the authorities of the countries concerned to continue with the release of political prisoners unjustly detained since the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, creating conditions of commitment between the conflicting parties, capable of materializing the Minsk Agreements, which are fundamental to the political stabilization of the region.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u165	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u166	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u167	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u168	Be registered. Let us turn to vote No 88 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ordering the Turkish Parliament to suspend the constitutional protection of parliamentary immunity to Members of the Democratic Party of the Peoples ( HDP ) ( BE ). I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, vote is as follows: « on 20 May the Turkish Parliament adopted a proposal to suspend the application of Article 83. that of the Constitution and to put into force a transitional clause which removes parliamentary immunity from Members. thus, it allows them to be subjected to prosecution and judicial punishment for alleged crimes of ‘ treason’ or ‘ support for terrorism. ’ This proposal emerges following other recent ones who have severely curtailed freedom of speech and press. But above all, it is a deliberation that brings to the memory the decision, taken in 1994, to annul parliamentary immunity and to arrest the Members of the Party of Kurdish Democracy (DEP), which is also justified by the fight against terror. This decision was at the origin of one of the most violent periods in the history of the Kurdish conflict in Turkey. Like then, the parliamentary deliberations of the 20th day also aim to remove from Parliament the Members representing the Democratic Party of the Peoples ( HDP ), who have given voice to the complaints of the increasingly systematic and violent abuses of the basic rights of the Kurdish people. The growing distortion of democracy in Turkey is at stake, which has been increasingly driven by political violence, instability and socio-economic polarization. Under the pretext of the fight against terrorism — a designation used to criminalize the Kurdish people and many Turkish Democrats in their struggle for democracy and the right to self-determination — the essential features of a rule of law are annulled, replacing parliamentary democracy with an absolutization of the presidential power, placed under the control of the legislative and judicial powers. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : — Expresses its deepest concern at the decisions of the Turkish State which decharacterise the essential pillars of democracy and the rule of law; — rejected the Turkish parliamentary decision to suspend the application of the Constitution on parliamentary immunity of Members, a decision addressed in particular to the Members of the People's Democratic Party ( HDP ) ; — Solidarity with the Members who have thus achieved the exercise of their democratic mandate.'
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u170	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP and the members of PS Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, João Soares, Jorge Lacão, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u171	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u172	What effect do you ask for, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u173	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS board will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Santos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u175	Mr President, in order to announce that I will give a statement of vote on this vote on my behalf and on behalf of the representatives of Paulo Trigo Pereira and João Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u176	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Ascenso Simões, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u177	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u178	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u179	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u180	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Return of cultural property which has been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 60 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 335 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a )............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. With regard to this draft resolution, we shall first vote on point 4. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on points 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 181 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prohibits the use of minors in Tauromachic ( PAN) shows. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the PS Deputies Carla Sousa, Diogo Leone, Fernando Jesus, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Torres, Luís Graça, Luís Soares, Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and abstentions from PS Deputies Alexandre Quintanilla, Antonio Cardoso, Antonio Sales, Elza Pais, Eurico Brilhante Dias, Filipe Neto Brandão, Joana Lima, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Sonia Fertuzinhos, Susana Amador, Vitalino Canas and CDS-PP João Rebelo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u181	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u182	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u183	Mr President, I felt that about 50 PS Members voted against, but the Bureau did not make any reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u184	Mr President, we have not identified the PS as having voted against because, as the PS has divided into three « slices », we have no obligation to account mentally in this particular case.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u185	Mr. President, I have integrated the majority part of the Socialist Party who voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u186	In fact, I had read that there was no PS voting orientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u187	Mr President, I have integrated the overwhelming majority of the Socialist Party who voted against. [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u188	Mr President, your precious information is recorded. We now vote in general on Bill No. 217 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents the participation of under 18 in professional or amateur Tauromachic activities and eliminates the category of bull killers ( BE ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and PS Deputies Carla Sousa, Diogo Leone, Fernando Jesus, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Torres, Luís Graça, Luís Soares, Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and abstentions from PS Deputies Alexandre Quintanilla, Antonio Cardoso, Antonio Sales, Elza Pais, Filipe Neto Brandão, Joana Lima, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Sonia Fertuzinhos, Susana Amador and Vitalino Canas.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft law No 251 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restricts access to the practice of Tauromachic activities by making the first amendment to Law No 31 / 2015 of 23 April establishing the regime of access and exercise of the activity of Tauromachic artist and of Tauromachic show assistant ( The Greens ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the members of PS Diogo Leone, Fernando Jesus, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Torres, Luís Graça, Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and abstentions from PS MP Alexandre Quintanilla, Antonio Cardoso, Antonio Sales, Carla Sousa, Edited Estrela, Elza Pais, Filipe Neto Brandão, Joana Lima, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Sonia Fertuzinhos, Susana Amador and Vitalino Canas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u189	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u190	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u191	Mr President, it is to announce to the Bureau that I and Mr Sales will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u192	Be registered. Mr. Ivan Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u193	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I and Mr Diogo León and Mr João Torres will present a statement of vote on the three previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u194	Be registered. Mrs Ana Mesquita, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u195	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on the last three draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u196	Be registered. Mrs Teresa Morais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u197	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u198	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, I inform you that Bill No 251 / XIII ( 1. a ) had the same destination as that of the projects of lein.o 181 and 217 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), i.e. it has been rejected. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We proceed to the vote on a CDS-PP request for lein.o 244 / XIII projects ( 1. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of pensioners, pensioners and pensioners ( CDS-PP ), 245 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by exempting from the complaint the crime of violation of the obligation of food and aggravating its penalties ( CDS-PP ), 246 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by creating the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of a food obligation ( CDS-PP ), 247 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 25 / 2012 of 16 July, extending the size of the living will to the planning of old age, in addition to the disease situation ( CDS-PP ), and 248 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code establishes the right of the worker who is one year from the legal retirement age to choose to work part-time for two years ( CDS-PP ), and draft resolutions No 336 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review legislation so as to defend the elderly from abusive penalties and exclusions they are target by age ( CDS-PP ), 337 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend Ordinance No 87 / 2006 of 24 January revising the Voluntary Card procedure ( CDS-PP ), 338 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create additional incentives to support the hiring of unemployed over 55 years ( CDS-PP ), 339 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a career management plan for older workers ( CDS-PP ), 340 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement a national strategy for active ageing and longevity ( CDS-PP ), 341 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government equate the private sector regime with the public sector, where it is permitted to continue working after 70 years ( CDS-PP ), 342 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government encourage the development of senior volunteering initiatives ( CDS-PP ), 343 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve and qualify the home support service ( CDS-PP ), 344 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider and consider extending the scope and powers of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth ( CDS-PP ), 345 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the prices of health care and social support in the care and outpatient units of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care ( CNCI ) ( CDS-PP ), 346 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government react to the health line 24 Senior until the beginning of autumn ( CDS-PP ), 347 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will in the main media and in all public services with places of service including authorities ( CDS-PP ), 348 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal ( CDS-PP ) and 349 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the training of health professionals in the area of geriatrics at pre- and post-graduate levels, in particular at the level of medical specialization ( CDS-PP ), fall to the relevant committees, without a vote, for a period of 45 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] These initiatives therefore go down, without a vote, for 45 days to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u199	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u200	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u201	Mr President, if I may help the Bureau, I believe that the drop-down requirement of each of those initiatives was not for 10. the Commission but for its committees, because in my opinion they do not all fall within 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u202	Thank you very much for the help, Mr, because indeed the initiatives fall to various committees, as is reported in the vote script. Therefore, it is not just a Commission but a competent one. We shall vote on draft resolution No 84 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Impact studies in trade negotiations in the outermost regions ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u203	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u204	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u205	Mr President, to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u206	Be registered. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u207	Mr President, it is also to say that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver to the Bureau a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u208	Be registered. Mrs. Lara Martinho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u209	Mr President, it is also to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u210	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 324 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal of Article 18 ( 3 ). Article 3 ( 2 ) and ( 9 ). the Regulation Order No 1 - H / 2016 of 14 April 2016, which fulfils the multiannual contracts concluded with private and cooperative schools ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 212 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by urgent intervention in the recovery of IC1 — section Alcácer do Sal / Grândola ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 278 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the urgent need for works to recover and benefit from CI1, in the section Alcácer do Sal / Grândola ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 299 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repair and urgent benefit of the road between Alcácer and Grândola in the Setúbal district ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u211	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u212	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u213	Mr President, it is to inform the House that the Members of the Socialist Party elected electoral circle of Setúbal will present a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u214	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bill No 180 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets the duration of the normal working period of workers in public service in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ) and the projects of lein.o 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replies 35 hours per week as a normal period of work in public service by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ( CFP ), 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens ), 96 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — 35 hours for greater job creation and replacement of rights in civil service ( BE) and 97 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish 35 hours as a normal working time for employees in public service ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, before we move on to the oral explanations of vote, we shall vote on a request by the PS to dispensate the final wording and to reduce to one day the deadline provided for in Article 157 ( 1 ). The Rules of Procedure, on the final text we have just voted on. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us turn to the oral explanations of vote. First of all, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, June 2, 2016, we have the conditions to take a decisive step in the replacement of 35 hours of weekly work to all employees of the Public Administration. It is 35 hours a week won in 1998, which the former PSD/CDS government has withdrawn from the workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2015, public administration workers worked more than 150 million hours of free work, because of the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u216	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u217	After three years, we have today been able to restore rights and pay tribute to the fair struggle that the public administration's workers have worked so firmly and courageously over the past four years. [[PCP applause.]] We therefore also have an obligation to record that, on the part of the CFP, the proposal we had for 35 hours to be applied to all workers, regardless of the link, has been rejected, but we will continue to beat ourselves by reducing the working time for all employees of the public and the private sector. from the PCP, we have today realized a commitment and pride - to contribute to the replacement of a fundamental right, and that is why we continue to take the reduction of working time as a priority objective of valuing work and workers. Over 130 years of Chicago strikes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u218	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u219	... which gave rise to the first 1. the May and the 40 hours of weekly work and the struggle for 8 hours daily, is well time for the civilizational advance to put living conditions at the service of minorities, a decent working time that takes into account the needs of the articulation of family, professional and personal life. This is the contribution of the CFP, the replacement of 35 hours, against the will of the PSD and the CDS, to guarantee the value of work — the struggle for the reduction of working time...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u220	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u221	... for 35 hours a week for all workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u222	For a statement of vote, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group welcomes public officials and civil servants for this important achievement, which is the 35 hour replacement. The 35 hours a week of work are a sign of progress in labour rights, the same progress Mr. Paulo Portas spoke of in his last speech in this Chamber. It is precisely the achievement of labour rights, that is where progress is made and, in the field of work, the reduction of working hours will always be a sign of progress. however, the Left Block also records that our proposal, which we have submitted from the beginning, has been dropped from 35 hours to individual employment contracts. It seems to us that this is a basic condition of equality for those workers and workers who work side by side with the other civil servants, carrying out the same tasks under the same leadership, but then they do not have the same rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u225	And it is on behalf of these workers that the Left Block now announces that it will also present a draft resolution to the Government so that, as soon as possible, it will apply 35 hours, through collective bargaining, also to workers with individual employment contracts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u226	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a happy day for the country, today is a day when we honour commitments and rest justice. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] over the last few months we have been working in the Assembly of the Republic, we have been working in the Government, we have been working with the social partners, trying to fulfill what was our commitment from the very first moment, which was to restore the 35 hours of work for the workers framed by the General Law on Public Works, from the next day 1 July, from today that is exactly what will happen. During this period of time, the parties on the right tried to intoxicate the debate in Portuguese society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u228	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u229	... they tried to indicate a division among workers, extending, indeed, that which was their government practice. Today it is important to be won and reiterated that no division between workers is concerned, which is, exclusively, concerned is a replacement of the indirect wage cut, which was made by the right-wing government, which unilaterally moved in the labour contracts that the Portuguese State had established with its workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the Socialist Party, the Portuguese State must honour its commitments, but it must even honour all its commitments and therefore honour its commitments to creditors, honour its commitments to pensioners and honour its commitments to all workers. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] And, therefore, from today onwards, the Portuguese State ceases to give externalities to the private sector, saying: « Move on labour contracts », « Reduce wages ». From today onwards, the Portuguese State restates part of the democratic normality that the parties on the right have called into question over the past four and a half years. From today on, we have fulfilled an election promise. From today we rest part of the justice that has been taken by the Government of the right in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u230	It is Mr. José Luís Ferreira's turn for the same purpose. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is an important day for many Portuguese families because today we take another step towards the replacement of rights that the PSD/CDS government has removed to people. A week ago, exactly last Thursday, the Portuguese had another day of rest and today we have 35 hours of work per week. It is another step, but for the Greens, other steps have to be taken to bring this justice to all workers who today have been out of the 35 hours a week, whether they are employees of the Public Administration, or they are employees of the private sector. in this sense, The Greens will continue to struggle to restore this justice to all workers, as we also foresee and propose in our legislative initiative — 35 hours a week for all workers in the public sector, regardless of the legal link that linked them to the Public Administration, and 35 hours a week, also for employees in the private sector. This is not the case, but we are still pleased that the outcome of this process will, at least, restore justice to many thousands of public administration workers and, therefore, to many Portuguese families. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u232	Mrs. Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u233	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I myself, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares, Mr Álvaro Batista and Mr Cristóvão Crespo will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u234	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. As I did not say at the time of the vote, I now inform you that Bill No. 10 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Return of cultural property which has been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 60 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 down to 12. the Commission, as it has been adopted in general. Let us turn to the report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mrs. Secretary Emília Santos will do her best to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u235	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, at the request of the Organic Unit 1 of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Coimbra, Case No 177 / 2000, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Bruno Coimbra ( PSD ) to present a statement as a witness within the scope of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-02.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] We have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 8 June, at 3 p.m., whose agenda consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 360 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the Portuguese public social security system ( PSD ), with any vote at the end of the debate. I wish everyone a good weekend and the best luck to the PS, who will have his congress this weekend, and to the CDS-PP, who will have the parliamentary days on the next Monday and Tuesday. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 23 minutes.]]
