ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and others. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. We shall begin our work today with the conclusion of the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 36 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2017 and 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to waste the time we have given in the morning so that we can leave for the afternoon the talks to close the debate and the votes. In order for this to happen, there must be no deviations in the time spent by each party as it happened yesterday. For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u2	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The State Budget for 2017 fully implements the government's commitments at the social level. It is a budget with objectives and priorities, a budget served by policies, instruments and resources necessary to achieve them. The social degradation that Portugal has experienced in recent years has been harsh and widespread. The loss of purchasing power of the vast majority of families, the rise in levels of poverty and inequality, the degradation of social minimums were striking traces of the economic crisis and the policy options of the right coalition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State Budget for 2017 defines as the main objective, on a social level, the improvement of family income with the realization of the recovery of income of employees of the Public Administration, with the encouragement of wage recovery, with the increase of public transfers to pension policies, family policies and the guarantee of strengthening social minimums to combat poverty. That is why this is a budget with clear social objectives and which define the priorities, which are assumed and which have the proper budgetary expression. First, we highlight the policies for inclusion and combating poverty in children. Child and youth poverty is perhaps the blackest trait of the degradation of social conditions in our country. According to official data, in 2014 there were more than 105 000 children and young people up to 17 years below the poverty threshold, compared to 2011. This State budget deepens a solid path to strengthening the fight against child poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This fight will be done with a reform of the social benefits model, concentrated in early childhood, with the improvement of the education conditions of 1. the cycle of basic education, with the generalization of pre-school education and with the improvement of health responses to childhood. The option, in particular, for the strengthening of family benefits for early childhood is a structural option of the social policies of this State budget, which is translated into strengthening the family allowance for early childhood, by extending it to 36 months of the reinforced allowance that exists today, but only until 12 months. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a plan that will be implemented until the end of the Legislature, but which already guarantees public support for improving the living conditions of children benefiting from that age stage and an extension to the new scale of such support. This is an important step up, with a budget forecast of EUR 30 million, which implements not only a strategy to combat child poverty but also an effective support policy for birth and promotion of equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also why this is a budget with clear priorities, such as the renewal of social protection for people with disabilities, for which public transfers will increase 60 million euros in 2017, more than 20 % than in 2016, with the aim of combating poverty, promoting inclusion in work and overcoming the risks of discrimination for people with disabilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is also why this is a budget with clear priorities, such as pension updating policy, which has three main features. First, it maintains the updating of pensions with the legal formula, as in 2016, which is provided for in the law and which resulted from a social agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, it improves the social effectiveness of this formula by extending to more than 200 000 pensions the first upgrade step, which, at least, maintains purchasing power. Pensions below two IAS ( indexing social support) of around €840 have become protected against inflation, even in periods of lower economic growth. Thirdly, pension revaluation is made for all pensioners with pensions below 1, 5 IAS who saw their frozen pension until 2015. This update, to be carried out in August, ensures a rise in the income of the beneficiaries up to 10 € compared to the pension income in 2016. This is a socially just measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a socially fair measure for three main reasons: because it is oriented towards pensions of less than 628 €, because it is aimed at pensions that have lost purchasing power in recent years and because it gives a response to pensioners with long careers contributions. These are the three reasons for the justice of this policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To question the fact that the State budget positively differentiates, in a generalised update of the pension value, a minimum pension of €303 from someone who, with 30 years of contributing career, has lost between 2010 and 2015, 7, 3 % of the actual value of his pension, his purchasing power is not politically acceptable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These pensioners, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have lost, in view of what would be the update of the value of inflation, a month of pension. The reduction of your purchasing power has resulted in less than a month of your pension. I repeat: for these pensioners, about 1, 5 million, it is about partially compensating a real cut of income that can be equated to a monthly cut of your pension. With this pension policy, the State reinforces transfers to families by EUR 530 million, of which close to 200 million correspond to the updates to be carried out. It is a stronger support than it had already happened in 2016 when the increase in the value of paid pensions was 457 million euros, of which about 63 million were for the updating of pensions. And, for no doubt, it is worth recalling that, between 2012 and 2015, pension updates amounted to EUR 189 million in these four years, less than this year's increase, and not much more than EUR 150 million that were cut to the solidarity supplement for the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not, as the right says, to punish anyone. This is a differentiation that is just for pensioners who have suffered the most from the freezing of pensions and are women and men who, in their overwhelming majority, do not have the means to improve their social situation. It is a social policy option, an option taken in a clear and transparent manner. But for the Government, social policy always has two inseparable dimensions: improving social conditions, on the one hand, and long-term sustainability, on the other, that is, the demanding reconciliation between social effectiveness and credibility. This State budget has this ambition and realizes it, because, at the same time as improving the social protection of citizenship, which strengthens social protection in the social dimension, allows the financial balance of social security to improve in the short and medium term and continues the path of consolidation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is because in 2017, as in 2016, the revenue of contributions will increase more than the overall evolution of expenditure, despite the strengthening of social protection. That's how social security defends itself. That is how social security is reformed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it says the right, the same one that almost created the standard of compulsory correction, that this budget is not credible. But the best guarantee of the credibility of this Budget is the results that the Country is achieving in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u3	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u4	It is widely recognized today that Portugal is meeting its budgetary targets, which are preparing to leave the procedure due to excessive deficits and will do so by fulfilling the commitments that the Government has made with the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the Portuguese know that their tax burden fell in 2016, that wages were restored, that the social minimums were once again active policies and not poorly tolerated obligations and that they know that all this happens in a framework of constitutional normality, greater social peace and confidence recovery and that this Budget continues to turn the page and mark the difference. What distinguishes this government and this majority from the right opposition is not only the fact that this path is different from the one that has been going on. That's not the biggest difference. What distinguishes us today is the future, because what the extinct coalition offered the Portuguese until 2019 was the repetition of policies. I repeat, it was the repeat of the policies, i.e. that pension of 303 € of someone who contributed for 30 years would be in the 303 € until 2019. This is not a free statement, this is a quote from the Government Programme that the long-standing coalition has submitted and that this House has rejected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This option of devaluation of the contributing dimension of social security is not a distraction or incompetence. No, it is part of a policy of fragility of public social security, of choice by the minimums, of reckless devaluation of the contribution function, to open the door to individualization of protection, by weakening of social insurance and, finally, to the great ambition of the various rights: the beginning of privatization of the pension business. They are not, therefore, options for the moment, doctrinal disputes or individual theimosia. They are social model options, they are basic options, they are the differences that matter not to spread. Our choice is to defend the public and universal base of social insurance, which must be complemented by positive differentiation measures in the fight against poverty and which does not cease to stimulate the complementary option of strengthening individual savings. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the way of strengthening social protection that this budget is going on is only possible because we are winning the hardest of the battles of economic and social recovery: that of recovery of job creation. Without it all would be much more difficult. But an economy, our economy, which created 106 000 net jobs from January to August, in a very demanding competitive framework and with strong restrictions on public policies, is an economy that gives us signs of hope and confidence. And did it side by side with the rise of the minimum wage from €503 to €530, defeating the prophets of misfortune and the theorists of the impossible. More 106 000 jobs created from January to August are the best of the answers to whom, within and outside Portugal, does not believe in our path, which is naturally made of doubts and convictions, of difficult options and of narrow choices, but which must be cemented in persistence and heated by ambition. This one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the challenge that the State budget for 2017 places on all of us and, first of all, on the part of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u5	Mr Vieira da Silva, the Bureau records nine entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u6	Mr President, I will respond in groups of three.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u7	All right. So to begin the first group of three requests for clarification, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister Vieira da Silva, I was listening to him and reminded me of his speeches in 2009, 2010 and until 2011, i.e. the same firmness in the verb, the same proclamations and, well see, Minister, the same bankruptcy in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u10	In 2011, V. Exa appeared in a government that put Portugal in bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] Let's see if then, with some modesty and probity, we understand ourselves about some aspects. Ex.a does not justify today, here, because it excludes from the extraordinary increase of 10 € the pensions of about 1 million Portuguese, which are the poorest pensioners. Mr Minister, we do not want to believe that it is for a damaged will of social injustice and social insensitivity of you, although it is true that you belonged to a government in 2010 that, without a troika, has generally frozen all pensions. But we thought you had learned and today would not provide the same pensioners, 1 million pensioners, with cuts in your income. [[PSD applause.]] Please explain to us, because we do not accept that cynical explanation that this 1 million pensioners will not have an increase in pensions because they have had an increase above inflation in the last four years. Another question, Minister, is this: of course we agree with the extraordinary increase of €10 to a million and a half of pensioners. We obviously agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u11	Do you agree? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u12	We agree, yes, sir. But we ask you why not from January, Minister? That's a good question. VV. They give the last part of the 10 € in August and we are tempted to think the following: in August, we are on the eve of the elections that take place in September and we are on election campaign. We don't want to think that's why we're already on the eve of actual elections that VV. They will give this 10 € increase to that one and a half million pensioners, forgetting the other 1 million pensioners. Tell us, Minister, why do you not give this increase in normal time, that is, from January onwards? You, like, eight days ago, already tried an answer here, saying there was no money in social security. Well, but the accounts are easy to do, it would be a little lower those 10 €, but start from January. We accept that you may be right, there is no money in social security. however, V. Exa says: « No, no, this is very sustainable, it is sustainable in the long term ». Mr. Minister, let's be serious. Let's talk about the future of social security. Social security will have another transfer this year from the State budget, from taxes of all Portuguese, of EUR 420 million, totaling around EUR 5500 million in recent years. It is a lot of money and evidence that our social security system is in a state of pre-failence, in a state « connected to the machine ». You know that by 2017 contributions will increase less EUR 260 million than expected in 2016, during your Government. Less than EUR 260 million, this lung of social security. You also know that a tax of EUR 160 million has been imposed on social security, a tax that you want it to be good. It is a bad tax, of course, but they want it to be a good tax because it is linked to social security. This is somehow the confession that there is a serious problem in social security. A fourth reason, Minister : VV. They have planned a cut of EUR 1020 million in social security and pensions. In addition, looking at a table on page 247 of the report of the State budget proposal, the reduction of pension expenditure in 2018, 2019 and 2020 is already well known. Something's about to happen on social security! VV. Ex.as say: « No, no, with this we guarantee another six years of survival of social security». And I say to him: « Mr Minister, you miss us from a Socialist Party ruler who in 2000 said: ‘ With the reform we have done, this gives for 100 years! Jehovah will certainly deal with you as with a man. ’ ” [[PSD laughter and applause.]] in another proclamation that you made in 2007, he said : « With this 2007 reform, it no longer gives for 100 years, but gives for 50 years ». VV. Ex. Now they say it's only for six years. Mr Minister, I am finished with an important question. So let's talk about the future. Mr Minister, is it time or not to reassure the current pensioners and trust the current social security contributors by reforming social security, a balanced structural reform, without prejudice, which ends with the pensioners' surpluses and the disappointment of the current social security contributors? These are the questions I leave you with, Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u13	It is now the time of Mr Luís Soares, of the PS Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, wanted to start by telling Mr. Adam Silva, in a very frontal manner, that it is very welcome to defend the fight against poverty in the elderly...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u15	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u16	...and I'd like to ask you where you've been in the last four years. I think this question is more than legitimate, Mr President. We heard in this House the direct relationship between the fight against poverty and the increase in pensions you have made — the so-called "minimum pensions" we know today are not minimal" in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. It must be said, Mr Adam Silva, that from 2003 to 2013 the fight against poverty was effective—in fact, there was an effective decrease in the risk of poverty among the elderly and he only reversed himself, and he invested himself never again in a specific year. It was precisely in 2013 when the PSD was in government. And do you know why it was, sir? You know, of course, but they're deliberately forgetting. It is because the fight against poverty in the elderly has not been made with the increase, with the slight increase in pensions that you say are minimal. Yes, it was with a fundamental instrument that you have created, but that we have recovered, that we reject, that is the CSI (compassionary complement for the elderly).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u18	That's what you don't want to recognize. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mr. Deputies, I understand well and all Portuguese understand clearly what is the speech of the parties on the right when they are in power and what is the speech of the parties on the right when they are in opposition. But more than speech, what the Portuguese know well is what the concrete actions and the results of your policies are. In 2013, in 2014, in 2015 the risk of poverty increased. It has increased in all Portuguese, but it has increased particularly in the elderly. I think it's funny, not to say anything else, that the parties on the right come here to talk about the sustainability of social security. It's easy that design they talk about so much. To talk about the sustainability of social security, paying pensioners with cuts in pensions, is easy; the difficulty is to do what this government is doing, which is to find new sources that guarantee the expectations of those who have contributed, throughout their lives, to receive a reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, I would like to tell you that the disappointment of all pensioners is the disappointment of those who thought they would have in the parties of the right-wing truly pensioners' parties and today they realize that what the PSD and CDS defend is nothing more than a privatization of the social security system, which puts their sustainability at risk, removing those who can most from a pension system that, of course, the Socialist Party defends as being public, and that is how it will stay while we are here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u19	You have the floor by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro, to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, would like to begin by talking about the fundamental mark of the recovery of income in this State budget, which is the increase in pensions. The proposal for a State Budget is not the initial proposal of the Left Block, which argued that this extraordinary increase would be extended to all pensions up to €840, nor is it the initial proposal of the Government, which did not provide for an extra increase of €10. The proposal for a State Budget is the product of the intense debates we have had and the insistence of the left, and is the most important result of the negotiations in the preparation of this State budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u21	None of the differences between us nor any right distraction maneuver can overshadow what is at stake. If the right hand were in power, we would be discussing where the 600 million euros would be cut in pensions and today we are discussing the biggest increase in pensions in the decade. This is the mark of the recovery of income from this Budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Secondly, Mr Minister, I would like to speak to you about the importance of policies relating to supplementary solidarity for the elderly. After the cut-off of this benefit that the right — PSD and CDS — made 70 000 elderly people, it is of the greatest importance for us that there is not only EUR 30 million allocated to the solidarity complement for the elderly in 2017, but that the CSI's outreach campaign is being carried out with 140 000 elderly people who can benefit from this benefit. Not only those 70 000 who lost it because the right cut it, but also people who had no right in the past and who, depending on the increase in the CSI reference value we made in the State Budget for 2016, on a proposal from the Block, and depending on the update of the social support indexer, can now fit in this provision. Of course, there must be changes in the CIS, but these changes are already a mark of the fight against poverty in this Budget. Thirdly, Mr Minister, I would like to tell you about the structural change in the family allowance, i.e. the extension of support which was intended for the first year and which is now extended to the first three years. Where the right kept the family allowance frozen and was responsible for the greatest increase in child poverty in Portugal, we today are discussing a new step in the fight against child poverty. And that is a sign of justice in this budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u23	Fourthly, Mr Minister, I would like to say that the Left Block will vote in favour of this State budget because of its commitment and the enormous expectation that it will ultimately bring justice to independent workers. The legislative authorization for a new contribution scheme is a historic opportunity to end the pursuit of an absurd and illogical regime, of contributions to the social security of green workers. And we have already made a significant path to some fundamental principles: discounts must be made from real incomes up to three months; and they must finish the steps and there should be a mechanism for continuity of contribution careers, with a contribution up to 20 € in the months in which people do not have income. Our vote in this Budget, Minister, is also a vote of commitment and demand that we find a good solution to the question of the contribution rate and the extension of social protection. They are important subjects in which there is a path that is being made. Count on our work and also, Minister, on our request. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u24	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u25	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, I discuss social security policies not as a matter of social sensitivity but as a question of policy options. It is not a tender of sensitive souls, nor is it an auction of promises, it is a debate about proposals and alternatives. The honourable Member started by saying that the government is going to do something terrible, he's going to cut off pensions. No, sir. The Government does not cut pensions; the Government updates the actual value of pensions to more than 90 % of pensioners and the others retain their nominal pension. The government does not cut pensions. That's in your program, it's in your practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u26	In yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u27	Other programs and other practices propose the cutting of pensions. But that is not the proposal of this government. Now, Mr President, I would like to mention a subject that has been very present. You criticise the use of the pension update formula which is not only renewed this year as is improved. But I'm going to tell you something that might be a novelty. Mr President, if the minimum pension, the only minimum of the general scheme that you have increased for four years, had been updated with the calculation formula that you are now so critical, do you know what value it would have achieved in 2015? 264 €! And do you know what value it has reached with the increases that you have made and that they present as the oversuscitation of your social sensibility? 261, 9 €! These are the target numbers! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u28	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u29	It was enough that they had applied the pension update formula — to that part of the minimum pensions, which was not the whole, far from that, that you have updated — for pensioners to have a better situation. These are the objective data. And that's how it's going to happen: we're going to differentiate positively on top of an update for all pensions below two IAS — I repeat, for all pensions below two IAS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The difference is great, sir! The difference is great and is seen in the numbers. In 2015, at the end of your Government, the value of the pension update was EUR 31 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u30	Top of inflation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u31	... in 2014, the same thing happened and in 2013, too. this year, the value of updating social security pensions and the General Pension Fund is close to EUR 200 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this is not just a difference in social sensitivity, they are different political options. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u32	You now say that you agree with an extraordinary increase. It's extraordinary! It's really extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u33	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u34	It is that, no more than a year ago, you presented in this House a Government Programme, in which you promised to repeat the pension policy that you have been conducting in the last four years, and in which you have even allowed the updating of 1 million pensioners or, if you want more stringent, 1 million pensions. That was what you promised until 2019. at that time, they did not agree with any extraordinary increase of 10 €, nor of 5 €, nor of 4 €, nor of 3 €, nor of 1 €. What they did was what they did: update those minimum pensions they chose for your "number" of demagogy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member spoke about the future of social security. Mr President, I have tried to show — if I have not been able — that the fundamental ratio which explains the improvement of the structural situation of social security is that which the Government has chosen to consider, i.e. that, as in 2016, the contribution expenditure increases less than the contribution revenue. That is why — especially because of this — we will improve the long-term sustainability of social security. We never denied that there were problems in social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u35	Ah! So there are problems in social security!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u36	What we deny is this vision that you have a saving reform, which, after all, becomes purely and simply a way for the privatization of social security, because that is your goal,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... you have already been in your Government Programme and have never been able to implement it, especially because the Portuguese people don't want it. The Portuguese people want public and universal social security, and have expressed it repeatedly. That is why you always fail to do so and will continue to fail to privatize the pension business. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then the honourable Member appealed to the serious debate. The serious discussion of social security is not compatible with, in this House, in the House of Democracy, someone says that Portuguese social security is in pre-failence. That is not compatible with the discussion of the future of social security! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do we have any problems? Well, we do! Like many other economies have. But we have better foundations, we have better policy options and we will regain the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u37	That's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u38	The honourable Member said that the State budget transferred headings to the social security scheme. It's true! Do it, and do it well! But it is also true that you went to the pensioners' pocket to look for the essential of these revenues in the extraordinary contribution of solidarity, in the increase of taxes, in the change in the rate of specific deduction of pensioners, in the cut of the Christmas allowance and holiday allowance and more in other cuts that were not only realized because they were rejected by the Constitutional Court, but which continue in your strategy. The honourable Member said there was a need for peace. That's what we're building, sir. Quietness is what we are building, reducing, with the aim of eliminating in this legislature, transfers from the State Budget to the welfare sector, generating positive results, improving long-term sustainability and improving the Stabilisation Fund. With other resources? Well! It's in our government program! We are also implementing the Government's Programme! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What's wrong? Are they against? Are they against which the Government strengthens the Stabilisation Fund? Oh, my God! So say it! Mr Luís Soares, the solidarity complement for the elderly is indeed a fundamental benefit. Perhaps now—unfortunately, only now—some begin to realize its importance. But what happened for years is that it was a forgotten benefit. Or, better, no, it was not forgotten, because there was a decree-law, Decree-Law No. 13/2013, which did a fantastic thing: it cut the reference value of the solidarity complement for the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u39	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u40	With what argument? Because they were increasing minimum pensions. Whoever made this diploma, who conceived this theory, does not even understand the meaning of differential performance, which always corrects its value when there is an increase in basic performance, does not even understand the objective of this complement. But now they are already ‘removing the clothes’ by the solidarity supplement for the elderly — welcome! They talked more about the solidarity supplement for the elderly in these two days than in four and a half years while they were in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr José Soeiro, the updating of pensions is an update based on a policy chosen by the government and by this majority. There are no perfect options. The option we made of the extraordinary update is an option that ensures, at the time it is assigned, that this value incorporates for the future the pensions of all pensioners who are covered by this update. That's why she's different from a smaller increase than was attributed in January. It could have the same budgetary effect, but it would certainly not guarantee that these pensions would have a higher level for the future. That's why we went that way. And, as you know, we're all going to work together—and now I think that even with unanimity of the House—
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u41	PSD and CDS are against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u42	... in a campaign that will start soon next week to disseminate, in a general way, the solidarity complement for the elderly. This is a difficult, demanding job, that we have already made it to a quarter of a million Portuguese and that we will continue to disseminate and bring to whoever needs it. This campaign will be on the ground by next week and will use a wide range of media to reach pensioners and the elderly. Then, Mr President, I cannot but agree with you: we have a very demanding challenge ahead of us, which is to improve the social protection model of self-employed workers. Improve not excessively penalizing your current income and ensuring your future protection. And guarantees it continuously, without ruptures, adapting this social protection to the condition of these workers, but also ensuring that they are a more-valuable to the social protection system and not a cost as some intend to make believe it is. That is a compromise we have and a compromise we will build together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u43	The second group of requests for clarification follows. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, we have heard you here today, and the feeling we have is that we have in reading the budget implementation. It is no less than what the country needs, such as the implementation of the budget for social security is less than what is proposed. If not, we see: on the invalidity pension, the budget implementation is less than EUR 6 billion; on the old-age pension, the budget implementation forecast for 2016 is less than EUR 100 million; on the old-age pension in the banking system, it is less than the budget; on the unemployment allowance and employment support measures, it is less than EUR 60 million than the budgeted one. As regards family allowance, social income for inclusion, supplementary support for the elderly, death allowance, social action, Minister, in total, is almost EUR 200 million less than the budgeted one. And we who have heard a famous socialist, for so long, telling us that "there is more life than the Budget", we, when we hear this government, realize that there is a lot more life than the Budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u45	To make promises, to propose values is very different from, then, to execute them. On the other hand, Mr Minister, he explains to us how he proposes an increase in his estimates of more than 200 million in relation to the extraordinary increase in pensions and, in his budget, only provides for more than 100 million. Where are you going to cut? Where are you going to increase revenue? He doesn't tell us in the Budget, but he already knows he will.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u47	Mr Minister, how can it be said that it increases pensions, but does not increase the lowest of the lowest, and claim that this is justice? How dare you challenge the Portuguese to realize that those who are, in fact, the lowest of the lowest, contrary to what you say, are penalized in real value? For two consecutive years, they fall by more than 1 % in relation to inflation and represent, yes, a penalty, rather, an increase in the lives of these people. How is it possible that parties who have proposed increases of 25 % for less than two years now simply remain silent and, when faced with this punishment of the poorest, seem satisfied? I must tell you, Minister, that we are not surprised. in fact, Mr Minister is the face of the reversal of the path of combating poverty. In 2009 Mr. Minister was responsible for the reversal of the cycle of inequality in Portugal. I'm not the one who says it, it's the study that is so often quoted, but which is barely read, of the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation. Read, on page 14, the following: A « relevant aspect is the breakdown, post-2010,... » — which actually began in 2009 — «... of the descending cycle of inequality which had occurred since the beginning of the century. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Minister is the face of the increase in inequality, the abandonment of the fight against poverty, and that is what he does again, without having the courage to update minimum pensions and to make them follow up on the increase he proposes for the other pensions! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u48	For clarifications, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister, on the discussion of this State budget, and in spite of the shortcomings and limitations that this budget has and that the CFP has already identified, it is important to say that for the first time in seven years - and I repeat again, for the first time in seven years - we are not discussing cuts in pensions, we are not discussing freezes in pensions, we are discussing increases. [[PCP applause.]] We are discussing a proposal for a real increase in pensions and under what conditions these increases will be made. This is a proposal resulting from the continued and committed intervention of the CFP. Even when we were alone defending the extraordinary increase of 10 €, we did not content ourselves with the thawing of the legal mechanism of updating pensions. We spoke and presented a proposal for an increase of €10, to defend the real increase in pensions and reforms with a view to restoring the purchasing power lost by pensioners and pensioners. The PSD and the CDS want to try to convince us, and they have done so again in today's debate, that the cuts they have made for four years are better and fairer than the effective increases that will have 98 % of pensions and that the extraordinary increase of 10 € which is guaranteed, only with this proposal of the State Budget, to 85 % of pensions. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u50	The PSD and the CDS want to make believe that imposing cuts and freezes on reforms and pensions is a better solution than discussing increases, they want to make believe that when they were in government it was that pensions and reforms were properly respected when, in fact, they ignored and disrespected the contribution careers of thousands of pensioners and pensioners,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u51	... have frozen and cut pensions to hundreds of thousands of pensioners, in addition to having the clear objective of weakening and devaluation of the public social security system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u53	It is clear to all and is clear to pensioners and pensioners, who, in fact, suffered so much at the hands of the PSD and CDS, that increases are indeed better than cuts or freezes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u55	And the debate that still needs to be held, Minister, is how to make this proposal more fair. This proposal does not fully correspond to the proposal of the CFP, which would guarantee the increase for all pensions, thus reaching two different dimensions: the valorization of all minimum pensions and the valorization of contribution careers, because those who discounted a working life also deserve to see their pension valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u57	By valuing the meaning of the proposal that is present in the State Budget, the CFP believes that the extraordinary increase of 10 € should be for all pensions. We will continue to be struck by this proposal, particularly in the debate on the subject, so that the solution coming out of this budget is better suited to the wishes of pensioners. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, there are two other aspects we would like to address more specifically. in this State budget we also discussed the thawing of the social support indexer, a measure that counted on the contribution of the CFP and which will translate into the increase of various benefits and various social support. This is a measure of the most basic justice, for which the CFP has been beating for many years. The defrosting of the IAS has a very positive impact that it is necessary to value, as it is necessary to value the strengthening of the family allowance and to take further measures to that end, in particular its enlargement to at least the fourth step. The proposal presented in this State budget to benefit thousands of children up to 36 months is a positive and important step, as well as the extension of family allowance to the fourth step means an effective strengthening of the protection of more children and young people. Mr Minister, we would like to know in particular the Government's willingness to go further in this area and further expand this expansion of family allowance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u58	Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u59	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers and other government members, there is no better way to analyse the State budget for 2017 than to assess the implementation of the current budget. Well, I know the opposition doesn't like to do this exercise. We're still well remembered about the Vatican they did a year ago. They may have thought that this government could resort to financial engineering maneuvers to shake the accounts for years to come, which you have also used to us in the past budgets. But let's get rid of them, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, the PSD does not assume its responsibilities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u61	... after four and a half years of governance in which it accentuated social inequalities the way we all know. In other words, employment has receded for almost two decades; poverty has increased for frightening numbers; more than 2 million Portuguese people have been at risk of poverty — 'poverty risk' means that they are poor'; child poverty, which shames us all and threatens the future, is a new reality that did not have the expression we know today; support for the elderly and their families has been withdrawn... Furthermore, was it not the previous government that frozen the contribution pensions without conditions of recourse, pausing the social complement of the elderly? Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Mr Vieira da Silva, this budget, like the previous one, gives continuity to the objectives of developing and promoting economic growth with budgetary consolidation and social cohesion, with particular emphasis on the recovery of family incomes, as the Minister has already repeated, as well as poverty reduction strategies — which are far more important, because poverty is a reality that we have to tackle today — in the various areas, both at the level of benefits and at the level of social responses. This budget sets as an absolute priority, and well, the fight against poverty, in particular, as the Minister has already pointed out, to child poverty. How will the social transformation of the policy of fertilizers be done? Mr Minister, I thank you for repeating that, so that we can finally be clarified with truth and not with the distortions which unfortunately the opposition has made during this debate. We know that families with children are those who have the greatest risk of poverty. Unfortunately, there is no longer any grace that the defenders of numerous families have been the first to impoverish them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u63	Have we gone? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u64	They were, Mr. Deputies. Mr Minister, what new measures are planned to strengthen protection for the first child? By continuing to combat existential inequalities with public policies and guided by the principle of non-retrogression of fundamental rights — that is, to discuss a political option — the government has increased access to health in less than one year. We have over 3,000 health professionals in the National Health Service, plus 500 000 Portuguese have a family doctor and our goal is, at the end of the legislature, to meet the goal of all Portuguese having a family doctor, which was promised by successive governments and never achieved. This effort is indeed an increased expenditure, but it is the expenditure that will contain and avoid costs. This makes it an investment. This is our choice. Despite being evidence, the PSD, by the voice of some Mr. Members, devalues and frightens people, speaking at the collapse of the National Health Service. Yesterday Mr. Luís Montenegro, in a dramatic and theatrical intervention, asked what were the consequences of this government's policy. For I answer you, Mr Commissioner: the consequences of this government's policies are, for example, the record of the number of beds in continuous care; the record of the number of family doctors; the record of the number of transplants; the largest number of doctors inside;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u66	...the largest number of surgeries; the largest number of users exempt from moderate rates... And I will continue: the largest number of approved innovative drugs; the largest number of health centers; the largest number of units... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And I'm going to go on, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the consequences of this government's policies! Mrs. Member, they are indeed the consequences of this government's policies. It is a reality in progress that will continue, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. And I'm going to go on: the largest number of family health units; the largest number of generic quotas... Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you are indeed the greatest... you are the greatest fictionists of misery! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we know, even for scientific evidence, is that more poverty is the most disease. Questions are much more transversal than we can sometimes think about. The continuing care network is therefore also absolutely necessary. We would like to know how budgetary rigour will be reconciled with this option we have made many years ago and to which we will continue. Mr Minister, I leave these questions to you. I'd like to say that, once and for all, the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen could hear with truth and rigour what the forecast for next year is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u67	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, I will not give you a political answer, I will just, I'm sorry, give you an explanation. The pensions you pay are the pensions that people are entitled to. This Government has not changed the formulae for calculating pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This Government did not make any contributions on sickness benefit or unemployment benefit, it pays the benefits to which it is entitled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the budget result is the same! You don't seem to understand that. The honourable Member has mentioned the change in pension expenditure. If there has been a change in pension expenditure, it is because less pensioners have applied for the pension, it is not because the government — I say again — has changed the calculation formula, created special contributions, as you have made in the pensions, in the sickness allowance, in the unemployment allowance, until the Constitutional Court considers them unconstitutional, or amended, for example, the rate of replacement in the sickness benefit. There is, yes, political responsibility in expenditure. When we comply with the law, the evolution of global spending on pensions is the one that the natural evolution of the system has. Mr President, perhaps you have now understood this explanation. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia also referred to cuts in the actual value of pensions. Mr, if there is a formula that does not allow a cut when it is intended to be updated based on inflation, it is the updating of benefits or other values based on the effectively verified inflation rather than on perspectives that are then discussed, corrected and corrected again. That's what makes the pension update formula.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u69	That's not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u70	That is why, Mr President, it is not necessary to be in the long run. in a sequence of years, if the update formula is applied by registered inflation, the actual value of pensions remains. This is elementary, sir! I am now going to explain some of the questions you have raised. In real terms, all pensions between 2011 and 2015 lost purchasing power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u71	False! The minimums have always gone up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u72	The difference is that, for example, the largest of the minimums that you have increased, in 2015, lost 2, 4 € in real terms, but those who had discounted 30 or more years of work lost 27, 7 € and a pensioner who receives 628 € lost 46 € in the real value of your pension. Do you understand the difference now? Do you understand why the government has made the option of correcting a sharp imbalance? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, on pension cuts is all said. There was not a year — a year! — in which the budgetary debate, while you were in the government, was not marked by the debate on the cut-off of pensions. But now we are discussing, as Mrs. Diana Ferreira said recently, and I quote the increase in pensions. It's a whole difference! It's everyone else! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u73	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u74	Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia said that I was the face of poverty in Portugal. Mr. Deputies, I have responsibility for public policies... Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia is showing me a role, but you don't need to show me any role, just what he says.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u75	It's not a role, it's a report!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u76	The Portuguese will judge their claim. As I was saying, I have responsibilities for social policies in Portugal. I have! I don't reject them, never run away,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u77	Run, run!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u78	...because I'm part of a party that never escaped your responsibilities and never was afraid. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] I've never run away and I've always looked forward to my policies. The Portuguese judged, sometimes better and sometimes worse, that it was what happened to you — they misjudged you! You've been misjudged and that's why they're there. And they're very good at the opposition benches. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira has identified a very important aspect: unfortunately, everything that has been lost in social policies cannot be recovered, but it is beginning to correct a problem, which is the updating of the indexer of social support. It is a positive step and we hope that it can contribute to an increasingly marked rebalancing of social policies in Portugal. I have already mentioned the honourable Member about the increase in pensions, which is in fact another page — in fact, it is another book, not just one page — of the debate we have here today. She also stressed very well the importance of family policies and social transfer policies for early childhood. This was — curiously, it is not a question discussed in these debates — an option discussed among the parties that support the government or support this government solution, and it was discussed in order to strengthen the effectiveness of social policies. If we can do better, we'll do it - obviously, with weighting. This is an increase of EUR 30 million for family allowance only for children from 0 to 3 years. It can be said that it is a small increase, although it is, for example, equal to the fantastic increase in pensions that in 2015, 2014 and 2013 made the right. Only for the increase in family allowance for children up to the age of 3 do we have this value in this first year, which is obviously a demanding value from the budgetary point of view. Of course, we are open to correcting and improving, if possible, and we are sure that our great goal is to have much stronger protection in the next three years in early childhood. And it is not just this increase, this increase adds, where necessary, the complement for disability, the increase for single-parent families or the increase for numerous families. We are already talking about support for young families or families with children and young people that has meaning and that makes the difference from the point of view of living conditions, because they are more than 1000 € of social support per year. In fact, this is a rupture, a reform that has not been much discussed, but I should like to point out that the Communist Party values it. Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, the reconciliation of all these objectives, as I have recently tried to say, is the most important and difficult challenge we all have. We have three commitments, and one of them is the increase in social policies and the strengthening of their effectiveness. And, for my part, by being able to associate other government areas, of course, these three areas that channel the essential of strengthening public spending — children, disabled people and older people — correspond to a set of political priorities, but they have to be reconciled with improving the credibility of systems, their sustainability and also our commitments to consolidate public accounts. Someone from the opposition bench said that the increase in pensions had limits for budgetary reasons. It's true, it's true! But how could I not? Oh, my God! On the other hand, I would like to say that the whole increase in pensions is included in the estimates for the variation of pension expenditure — and I explained this in my intervention — as it was last year. The EUR 535 million increase in pensions incorporates the EUR 335 million increase in expenditure associated with the evolution of the system and more than EUR 200 million increase in pensions decided by the political update we have made. I believe that we all realize this and that it is in the conciliation of these three objectives, in this triangle — to improve the effectiveness of social policies, to address them always to those most needed, to improve the credibility of systems, whether in health, whether in education or in social security, and to fulfil our commitments to balance public accounts — that we must work together. I think the Portuguese are increasingly convinced that we are doing it well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u79	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the next round of requests for clarification to the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u80	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, is to register and welcome a clear difference in the paradigm of disability policies between those developed by this Government and those developed by the internal government. Pilot projects within the framework of Independent Life and the so-called single benefit are proof of this. It is also a good sign of the intention to again increase the assistance allowance by third person and the disability bonus in the family allowance. We are walking in the right direction, we are on the right path, but in our opinion we are walking too slowly. The community of disabled people expected more. Pilot projects within the framework of Independent Life, the implementation of which was already planned in the Budget for this year, should only see the light of the day next year. The single provision, with which we fully agree on its assumptions, by providing for a citizenship component, another to combat poverty and another to compensate for specific expenditure, will only see, according to this budget proposal, a first phase executed at the end of next year, with a gradual implementation by 2019. We think it's too long. This year that is ending, people with disabilities have been forgotten, as the Minister admitted when we discussed the Budget in February. The monthly life support, which had not been increased since 2009, had an increase of 7 cents, thanks to the update of the extraordinary complement of solidarity, and the social disability pension had an increase of 88 cents. Will these people continue to be forgotten until October or November of next year, when is an extraordinary increase expected for most pensions in August? It is not right to force those who had to continue this year to live with miserable pensions — these, yes, are the poorest of the poor — to live another year like this. The Minister has repeatedly stated that he would put people with disabilities above the poverty threshold, creating an enormous expectation for people with disabilities and their families. Given the expected phase-out of the implementation of the single benefit by 2019, what people with disabilities want to know is the following: when will this objective be achieved? When will they come out of the condition of extreme poverty in which they are and have a decent income? In the meantime, they also want to know the following: What will be the amount of the single benefit in 2017? How much will be the increase in the assistance allowance by third person and the loss of family allowance? These are the questions I leave you with, Minister, because they are the answers to these questions that people with disabilities want to hear. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u81	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u82	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, in recent years, and especially in the last four years of the PSD and CDS government, precariousness has been promoted and sold as a great modernity, when it is indeed a major delay. The speech they made was that «a stage is better than nothing» and « the precariousness is better than unemployment», and so it was very revealing of the project that the PSD and CDS had for the country: backwardness, poverty and emigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u83	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u84	For this reason, in the public and in the private, precariousness has gone from exception to the rule: abuse of contracts in the long term, temporary work, false green receipts, internships, scholarships, employment-inclusion contracts. There are thousands of workers who respond to the permanent needs of public services and businesses but who do not have an effective contract, have less wages and have less rights. This option clearly reflects the political objective of the PSD and the CDS: to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. And this is a brand of always PSD and CDS. For years, we have proposed the survey of all precarious situations in the Public Administration and, for years, the PSD and the CDS have dropped this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u85	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u86	For years, we proposed strengthening of inspectors of the Working Conditions Authority and, for years, the PSD and the CDS gave rise to this need.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u87	What about the results?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u88	More: we remember when the independent workers were threatened and executed and when they changed the labour laws to generalize the precariousness and impose instability on people's lives, as if it were the air that breathes. Mr Minister, on these matters we want to ask you two questions. The first question is the need for the lifting of precarious situations in the Public Administration to be a starting point and not a point of arrival, so that this survey corresponds to an effective recruitment of workers who respond to permanent needs in schools, health centres, hospitals and the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training (IEFP ), because we know that such situations exist in the IEFP, as in other ministries. There are no public services of quality without workers with rights and stability and, therefore, the State has an obligation to set an example in this objective. The second question we want to ask you, Minister, is about self-employed people and, of course, we want to say that it is very important to separate the wheat from the juicy. It must be said that false green receipts are an illegality and a situation which must be converted into legitimate employment contracts, and for that reason the Working Conditions Authority must have the necessary means. True independent workers should have a fairer social security contribution scheme, considering their real income, ensuring adequate social protection, and that is an important issue. Taking this commitment into account in the State budget is important; in practice it will be decisive. Therefore, the CFP will continue to be struck by solutions in this area. Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Precautionary does not serve workers nor does it serve the country. It is not possible to combat unemployment without combating precariousness and, for that reason, it is necessary to ensure that a permanent job is always an effective bond, because employment with rights is a mandatory condition for the development of the country. This is a central struggle for democracy and we do not give up on this objective. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u89	The last request for clarification to Mr Vieira da Silva will be made by Mrs Isabel Pires, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, if there is a government area that the right that ruled us for four years more destroyed was that of the ministry of work and social security. They dismantled the Labour Code, cut pensions, cut wages, frozen careers, limited family allowance, finally... During these four years of government we saw a devaluation of collective bargaining such that the number of workers covered increased from almost 2 million to about 200 000 ; there was a sharp wage, direct and indirect devaluation, which led to the increase in poverty among those working, but also the increase in poverty with a particular focus among the younger and older; there was an increase in unemployment, especially long-term unemployment, and work without rights; there were public employment policies which during the previous government scandalously encouraged precariousness for businesses; there was an increase in poverty at all ages. Finally, we know and know the Portuguese all that has been done by the right government, the PSD and the CDS, for purely ideological choice of attack on social and labor rights. We also know that PSD and CDS will continue in a dangerous exercise of denial of reality that we witnessed during yesterday and that we continue to watch during today. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we think that's enough! It is not healthy for any debate this denial of reality! however, this negation is also a good example of what is being done again and what is being done better, which is to reverse the policy of cuts and attacks on labour rights, which was essential, and it is still essential today to deepen it, particularly in the area of work and social security. In addition to the increase in pensions, the rules that increase contributory justice, the increase in family allowance and the strengthening of the solidarity complement for the elderly (CSI), it should also be valued, in the context of these negotiations and the fight against precariousness, the extension of the scope of the law which has already allowed thousands of green receipts to regularize, now recognizing the employment relationship in cases of false stages or false scholarships, trying to prevent and enshrine in law the impediment of dismissal in this type of process in time between the identification of the problem by the ACT and the court decision, and this is also worth it in the context of combating precariousness. Mr Minister, it is important to ask questions about the increase in collective bargaining. Since this is one of the subjects that is reflected in the Big Plan Options and in the 2017 Budget proposal, we would like to ask about how the Government intends to give effect to this measure, since collective bargaining is one of the essential tools to combat precariousness. Also on precariousness, the Government was again questioned yesterday by the Left Block on the delivery of the report on the extent of precariousness in the Public Administration and in the business sector of the State. In news last night, it was indicated that the Ministry has already received the same report. That is why, Mr Minister, considering that this document is essential for the debate we are having on the State budget, it was important that we should be able to realise these results today so that we can discuss the solutions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u91	To answer this last round of questions, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jorge Falcato, as you well said, is our common understanding that, when we need to improve efficiency and efficiency in social protection, a fundamental area is aimed at people with disabilities. I can only point out that in several areas we have been making changes. In fact, this proposal for the State Budget makes a positive differentiation of persons with disabilities in the field of labour taxes, because, contrary to what some may think, there are many thousands of disabled workers who have the possibility of having an inclusion in the labour market and it is good and positive that the State differentiates this experience, so that it is encouraged as a form of inclusion of people with disabilities in active life and in society as a whole. Obviously, we would all like the new architecture of social protection for people with disabilities to be implemented more quickly. So, what I can say is that we are working with all the intensity that we have achieved in achieving this model and that by the end of the year it will be put into public discussion so that in 2017 it can already have the first results, and for that we have a budget allocation of EUR 60 million, which is a significant growth in relation to what is today the expenditure that the State and the social security system have in this area. We will have the opportunity to discuss many of the issues that you have identified during this public debate, which will naturally have the privileged stage in this House of the Republic. In any case, I would like to draw attention to three options which are already consolidated for us: the establishment of a social benefit of citizenship, which is generally attributed to the specific situation of the disabled person and not to his situation on the labour market, I repeat, depending on the situation that determines that he is a disabled person; the existence of a citizenship benefit, which, for people with a lesser degree of disability, may be associated with the existence of employment incomes and these employment incomes cannot be an obstacle to the fact that people are benefiting from that benefit, which is another aspect of citizenship; and, finally, the dimension of combating poverty, which is intended to prevent people with disabilities from having incomes lower than those considered as poverty thresholds. These are the three dimensions that structure our social benefits reform for people with disabilities. I would like to say, and you know well that this is not an easy task, because if we want to be effective, we have to define precisely what we want to achieve. In fact, other experiences in other countries have failed because there was no ability to define the target of these social policies, and when one fails, the ability to make the change is lost, because the financial effort we are doing has to be concentrated on the people in which it effectively makes the difference and not distributed more or less randomly. I would like to say, however, that you did well to mention that there are very low value pensions that have never been updated and some of them were benefits for people such as disability or disability, but they will obviously be integrated in the extraordinary update, which does not answer the fundamental issue, which I believe is that of the new model of social protection for people with disabilities. Mrs Rita Rato and Mrs Isabel Pires spoke about the issues of precariousness. We all know that the diagnosis is made from the point of view of the impact—and we can have different interpretations here or there—that it is important for the State to have a policy of correcting the excessive precariousness that exists. In fact, survey work is a demanding and difficult job, because unfortunately there are too many types of atypical relationships and some of them do not correspond to precarious work situations but rather to reasonable service services. For example, in the Ministry for which I am responsible, doctors who serve at the audit boards do not, nor do they have to have, a contract of work with social security, have to have an advance, because they provide a service, and, in fact, must even be independent of social security. Therefore, this distinction must be made in the work that we are drawing up, which is almost complete, but it is not to my Ministry that it will be handed over, because this area is the responsibility of the Minister for Finance. However, I believe that we will be able to move very quickly from the discussion of the lifting to the policy debate, because that is what I think is fundamental, and that is something we have to view as a medium-term objective, that is, as an objective that we cannot solve in this or in the next Budget but that we will have to solve in the next budgets. I would like to say that there is already something that is being done: change in public employment support policies, which for a long time have not been able to sufficiently differentiate the precarious working relationships from the most sustainable labour relations. This has changed, it will continue to be changed and active employment policies will become tools for promoting long-term work, decent work and more stable working relationships. This is being done and I remember that it was actually a problem we had for too many years. With regard to self-employed people, I believe that the essential part of the reform we have to do is in the legislative authorisation which, I believe, all parliamentary groups support, being comfortable with the broad lines of this legislative reform. I would also like to reinforce one aspect which Mrs Rita Rato mentioned, and very well: it is necessary to make a radical distinction between the social protection of independent workers and the social protection of false green receipts. Sometimes the difficulties in building this answer are that we try to include the two problems in the same package, but they cannot be included, because a false green receipt only has a solution from the point of view of social protection that is to stop being a false green receipt, because, if that does not happen, we will always be overloading people's contributions and penalizing, mainly, future social benefits. Therefore, on the side of contributions and benefits, we must concentrate social protection aimed at the true independent workers who exist, and in fact, many of them want to be independent workers and also have the right to social protection and to contribute to a system that, as a whole, is a solid system. To conclude, and as I have already said, I believe that the options that have been drawn up in the legislative authorization will enable us to re-define the entire social protection model of self-employed workers in the short term and thus achieve the objectives that we all pursue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u93	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u94	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the State Budget for 2017 confirms what we all knew: the right, justice is done to it, it remains absolutely faithful to its programme of enriching by impoverishing, of growing short-term, of increasing rights by reducing them. You could and would run this program cost anything. We here are determined to prevent it. The right remains faithful, justice is done to him, to the conviction that there is no alternative to his fanatical dogma. And, as it were, the right was announcing the Devil every month he passed. Dogmatic that is dogmatic does not do the thing at least; if you do not do what the dogmatic finds, it is because it is the work of Belzebu. The truth is, since 2015, the right that lives intertwined in its diabolical ghosts and the biggest of the devils that infernify the life of the right is that it continues to enforce a policy of recovery of income to those of the bottom. The right tolerates a lot of things, but not that. Against all the Vaticanes of the PSD, CDS and its clique of posted commentators, this is the second Budget that adds income to those below. That's the Devil who so torments the right. [[Congratulations from BE and some PS Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the debate so far, there has been a strange silence and it is about him that, on behalf of the Left Block, I want to intervene. To debate this budget without reference to the so-called European rules is to hide the essential data of the country's economic and budgetary problem. Let us then follow the reasoning of Europeanism resigned in four points. First, we must comply with the rules of the budgetary treaty in order to be recognised as credibility. Secondly, the fulfilment of the budget treaty leads us to save, save, save, save up to EUR 5276 million of the primary balance. Third: saving, saving, saving means lack of toner and paper on public distribution printers, it means not hiring indispensable staff for the courts, it means arrests to rot and to which one cannot answer, it means hospitals and health centers taken to the limit of their ability to perform that their professionals would want it to be much better, it means not being able to have a return to those below their needs in a country like ours. Fourth and last point: after all paid, and with more than 5000 million positive balance, we will barter the EUR 8 billion of interest from a debt that suffocates us. The conclusion, then, of the reasoning of Europeanism resigned: we save ourselves in debt, that is to say, we even save ourselves to impoverish ourselves. This endless spiral of impoverishment takes the country as hostage. Patriotism, democracy, good sense is to break this wall. A country hostages those who use this blackmail do not gain credibility by obeying and playing the rules that lead it to be hostage. It is important to get a lower interest, certainly, but without restructuring our debt, as any reasonable economic actor would do and how he would accept any reasonable creditor, without that, there is no low decimal of the interest we value. It happens, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the European Union does not act as a reasonable actor or as a good person. The extremism of the absurdity of the anti-economic rules imposed discriminarily is really existing Europe. Being friendly with this is not to gain credibility, it is to let ourselves be imprisoned. With the exception of Luxembourg, no State complies with the rules of the budgetary treaty. But there are those who are rewarded for it and there are those who are punished for it. Mr Schäuble's Germany grossly violates the rules by accumulating surpluses. But of course, Germany is Germany! France by François Hollande has never fulfilled the rule of the deficit limit but, with the understanding that only good friends and fairies are capable, the Commission, headed by Durão Barroso and Jean-Claude Jüncker accepts informal agreements, whether secret or not, so that they make their accounts and everything seems not. But, of course, France is France! In other words, whoever orders may grossly violate the rules and everything is forgiven to him and Portugal remains the constant persecution against any dream of having a public bank that even behaves as a public bank. For Portugal remains the sword of sanctions always pending on every tenth of the debt and of the there. As long as we do not mark our relationship with the European Union with the refusal of this indignity which is the strong all can and the weakest can only be blackmailed, every debate in a Budget is at risk of being a smaller exercise of the count of coughs because the millions, these, have already been intended. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second budget that recovers income for those below. Now, it's imperative to recover investment. We know that this puts us in contrast with the leaders of a Europe that makes the benefit of those above their reason for being. The bloc will not lack this confrontation, in the name of a stronger democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u95	The Bureau has so far only one request for clarification. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u96	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, in good rigour, the honourable Member, in this budgetary debate, spoke of everything and, as the people usually say, of « a pair of boots». He just didn't talk about the Budget. In some ways, this gap has been largely filled by your leader, Mrs. Catarina Martins, who has said of the Budget, beyond one or two bricks he has already used to, that this is not the Budget he wanted but is the Budget possible. It is the PS Budget, always sending responsibility for what is bad for PS, but it is not the Budget with the proposals that the Left Block would prefer and that the Left Block would do, if it were government. Why not be a formal part of the government? It reminds me a little, this attitude of the Left Block, to a well-known football coach who, when he suffered a punishment that prevented him from being in the bank, declared himself "impressive in changing the reality of things and the course of events". And the Block is kind of in the same situation. The Block also feels "impossive" in its impotence to change things and power, so let us say, in this Budget, do a little bit, but just a little, putting in the letter of law and proposals a lot of rhetoric that in recent years have done about the bank, above all that is not to tax the sun, that is not to tax the rain, to tax the luxco-fusc, to tax this world and another, finally... [[BE's protests.]] The Left Block, in this Budget, was demonstrated in this debate, in general, is a party that is on sale. It sells itself for a lack of power and sells itself for an increasingly low price, and that is an insufficient reality, Mr. Therefore, the great conclusion of this debate, in general, and now, of its talk in time of disagreement that it has offered us, is that the Left Block today does not pass an annex located in the back of the Socialist Party,... [[PS and BE protests.]] ... that he gave up entirely of what he had been defending from a few years ago to this part and that, Mr. Deputies, and with this ending, at the end of this run-up adventure to the Left Block and not only, I am absolutely sure, again paraphrasing the already mentioned football coach, will not be "bosted by luck", with all certainty. [[PSD laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u97	To reply, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u98	Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, very quickly, wanted to give some answer to the question you put to me, saying from the outset that I understand your fear that the right will cease to be attached and become part of the remissive index of the history of Portuguese democracy. That's where we're going to force it to be, of course. But from this point of view, I also did not want to go to the side of an allusion which the honourable Member has made about who is being sold. in this matter, there is one thing that can be certain: is that the Left Block is here to defend those who need to defend a social aggression such as that which you have practiced and, therefore, we will not sell ourselves to interests — that matter we leave for others. But now, Mr President, I can't help but tell you something else. in fact, his allusion to the football gyria leads me to consider that the PSD seriously risks doing here the role that football trainers do when they are losing 3 - 0, always saying: "We lost but we had a huge attitude". I think that's exactly what characterizes the PSD today. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u99	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The policy of a government is not exhausted from the preparation of a proposal for a State budget but says a lot about the political options of those who have the responsibility to prepare. A State Budget enables you to see whether a government's greatest concern is the present or the future, whether it favours its base of support or society as a whole, whether it believes more in the state or in the private initiative to create wealth and what price it is willing to pay for its choices. The document itself tells us a lot, for the information it contains and for which it omits, for the way in which it sustains predictions and for the message that passes to economic agents. The budget proposal we are discussing is already the second of the current majority and if it is distinguished from the first, unfortunately, it is not for the better. The macroeconomic scenario presented is more content, which has already been wiped out of delusional growth forecasts based on the dynamics of family consumption and public investment. With this, we could be led to believe that the government had realized that its economic model failed in 2016 and that it had decided to correct the course. Of course, when we look beyond the scenario and into concrete measures, we realize that unfortunately this is not the case. The apparent humility in macroeconomic forecasts is simply trying to prevent it from being too obvious that nothing has really changed and that, failing the wager in domestic demand, there is nothing to put in place. The modest growth forecast now has the best performance of investment and exports. We are thus led to seek in the Budget measures that will increase confidence, create conditions for exporting companies to gain market shares, promote private and public investment. In short, everything that didn't happen in 2016 but that the government seems to wait now for that to happen in 2017. But as much as we are looking for, they are not there, which is too optimistic even the modest growth of 1, 5 % expected for 2017, less than 1, 6 % registered in 2015. Is it dramatic to grow so little? Most don't look like it. The important thing is to remove all temporary austerity measures as soon as possible: to remove pay cuts, to freeze pensions, to reduce working hours in public service and to rest holidays. The problem is that, in fact, for the country, it is dramatic to grow so little. And it is dramatic because all returns, rests and reversals cost money and without growth you can only go to the place of custom, to the increase of taxes, now with a clear preference for indirect taxes, that families notice less and always can associate godly intentions, such as pretense concerns with health or the sustainability of social security. And it should be noted that, until the new tax on social security was placed on social security, the government vowed together that nothing threatened its sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u102	And what happens next, after 2016 and 2017? Growth will not come, it will continue to be mediocre at best, but it will be necessary to continue giving something. The PC and the Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u103	PC is a computer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u104	... you must be able to boast that you have got anything for someone or your electorate will not realize on behalf of you that you have abandoned your principles. Public expenditure will continue to grow, with new taxes to support it, and the economy to be defined, accentuating a vicious cycle of impoverishment. Well the Minister of Finance may repeat as many times as you want there to be no increase in taxes as we all realize how this story ends: as soon as it is necessary to accommodate new demands of the partners on the left and maintain the appearances of compliance with European commitments, a new tax will arise, on any economic activity that reveals some dynamism, on any accumulated heritage with a working life, or on the suspects of the habit, such as fuel, automobile, tobacco or beverages, now also non-alcoholic ones. And this perception, this awareness, that there will be more and more new taxes, rather than discussions about whether the tax burden as a percentage of GDP increases more or less every year, is the real measure of fiscal stability. The rest is conversation. Budget options are also reflected in how different sectors are benefited or damaged in the distribution of the budget cake. The government insists that it does not cut in education and health, but says nothing more than this. It does not say which sectors will obtain the promised savings, where they affect the captives that have shifted from the budgetary management instrument each year to measures now called « structural ». The government is afraid to say that they are in education or in health, but by the way, it is also afraid to say whether they are in social security, public security, culture, or justice. The Minister of Finance says that the cuts are not blind. We are not blind either, Mr Minister, and we all see that in education and in health the quality of the service also deteriorates, that professionals complain that they have no conditions and that the populations they must serve are increasingly disadvantaged. If the capitulations made permanent result from a fine analysis of each budget and if, as the Government claims, it is reduced only where it is not needed, why hide? Why can't we all know where fats have been found that can be eliminated? If expenditure is not necessary, the government should even be proud to explain what it is, in what way it saves resources that are scarce and that can be better used elsewhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u105	This is by chance very well explained in the State Budget Report, and even with numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u106	No one would criticize him, on the contrary. As it does not, we can only conclude one of two things: either it is spending that is needed and it is only being postponed, or it is spending that is needed and it will even happen, questioning the goals. [[PSD applause.]] And despite the questions, it seems we're going to have to wait until the year comes to an end. What we already know — indeed, what we have known for a year — is that the government and the majority do not have a vision of the future, they are only stuck in the past. After being replaced by permanent taxes all temporary cuts, what follows? What do you have to offer to young people who have not yet acquired rights? to the excluded, to whom is no right recognized? to entrepreneurs and innovators, of what does the country need so much? What companies, small, medium-sized and large, are they struggling to keep jobs? A few far-reaching measures, to have anything to announce, but no ambition and strategy, beyond the very short term. This government and this majority have nothing to offer to those who are not installed, to those who do not resign themselves to a country that consumes what they have and what they do not have, to perpetuate dependencies and assistanceism. We do not promote merit and demand, we do not fight inequalities and we do not promote social mobility with the measures of this government and this majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u108	And it didn't have to be like that. After a tough adjustment and recession program that resulted from bankruptcy, Portugal resumed growth in 2014. In 2015, it accelerated the rate of economic growth, saw investment grow again and with it the hope of a better future. Thanks to what the Portuguese achieved with PSD/CDS governance, this government and this majority had freedom to make political choices,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u109	It was just not to ruin! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u110	... they were not tied to a memorandum whose compliance depended on the money to continue paying wages and pensions, to maintain the National Health Service and the public school, to avoid the chaos and suffering greater than the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u111	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u112	And they used this freedom of choice of the worst form, returning to the cheated model that proved wrong in the past and proved wrong again in the present. As in the past, the answer is ready: the problem is not the model, it is the lack of luck, the inheritance, the external environment, the European rules, the previous government, the next government, so much does. Meanwhile, public debt continues to grow, with the government itself predicting growth already this year, after finally reversed the trend in 2015. And even if you consider good news the rating does not come down— see there! — When, a year ago, we were all waiting for it to come up. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] Political stability, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing. A government that lasts long enough to carry out its programme is desirable in democracy. What should not, what cannot happen is to summarize the governance of a country to the survival of the government. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u113	Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, the Bureau has so far registered three entries for requests for clarification. Would you like to answer individually or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u114	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u115	The first inscription is from Mrs Mariana Mortágua, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u116	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, it is easy and fair to confront her with the past: there is a brutal increase in taxes, there is an insensitive cut in social support, there are attacks on the Constitution and on labour rights. And don't answer us, Mrs. Member, with the bankruptcy box, because it wasn't because of the bankruptcy that went down the IRC to the big companies, it wasn't because of the bankruptcy that facilitated the tax planning,... [[PSD protests.]] ...it was not because of the bankruptcy that was cut in the RSI, it was by ideological choice of the PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u118	And it is time in this debate to take positions on the past, on the present and on the future. The honourable Member must assume that they could have created an effective tax on great real estate, but they chose not to do so; they must assume that they could have asked the Banco de Portugal for a contribution to the public accounts, but chose not to do so; they must assume that they could have made EDP pay the social rate to 800 000 families, but they chose not to do so,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u119	... while choosing to increase labour taxes and make work relations precarious. [[Congratulations from BE.]] There are choices, there are always choices at every political moment. But, honourable Member, it is also time to be clear in the choices about the future. As you know, the PSD's position on public debt interest and budgetary treaty has not changed, remains critical, as has always been.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u120	Now, your vote is at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u121	So we should talk about the future and what the PSD plan would be for the country. Your plan, and the one that presented Brussels, an annual cut of 600 million in pensions, is it worth or is it not worth it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u123	Is the increase of EUR 1 billion in taxes, which you presented to Brussels, worth or not? What is the PSD plan for the country? He just criticized the rostrum, the rush to freeze pensions. Recently, a PSD member said he agreed with the increase in pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u124	It's the total fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u125	How would the PSD pay that increase in pensions? It is against the tax on real estate, it is against asking Banco de Portugal to pay some of the interest on public debt. How would you pay for this increase in pensions? Would you keep the cuts in the civil service? Would you keep the overtax? Madam Member, the challenge for the PSD is that it assumes, here and in the specialty, its choices for the country, because we have not yet seen this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u126	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u127	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, I have listened very carefully to you, but I have to say the following: whether you want, or not, to all the banks, the truth is that there is an effort in this budget to promote the rebalancing of family budgets, there is a recovery of family income, there is a reversal of the salaries and pensions that you have withdrawn and there is a brake on the weakening of the social state that you have promoted. Therefore, the idea remains that the PSD is ill associated with the recovery of family incomes, with tax relief in labour incomes, with the strengthening of social support and with the end of some tax benefits to large economic groups. But we are not surprised, because you were used to guiding budgets based on wage cuts, cuts in reforms and pensions, precariousness, unemployment, forced emigration, backlog of rights, insisting on the tax burden on labour income, disrespected by the Constitution, unacceptable interference at the level of local power and a constant weakening of the social state. Therefore, the PSD does not now hide the inconvenience because, at last, it begins to realize that there were after all alternatives to the policies that the previous government imposed on the Portuguese without pain or mercy, without appeal or aggravating. A real suffocation that you imposed on the Portuguese, without solving any of the country's problems. She then speaks of the lack of credibility of this budget, when four years have been failing on the whole line: failing to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, failing to combat unemployment, failing to consolidate the budget, failing at the level of public debt, failing at the level of GDP growth and failing, too, at the level of poverty. But, Mrs Deputy, during this discussion in general the State Budget for 2017, I still did not understand an element. During the discussion of the State Budget for 2016, we heard Mr Pedro Passos Coelho from the rostrum saying and announcing to the country the following: « The PSD does not present amendments to the State Budget for 2016 because this Budget does not have a possible arrangement». Now, since the PSD announced that the State Budget for 2017 will present amendments, this means that the PSD understands that this Budget has a possible arrangement. What has changed, Mrs. Member? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u128	Before we proceed, I would like to ask Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque a question, since, however, the Bureau has registered another entry for a request for clarification. I wanted to know whether the honourable Member responded to a set of two or all of the four requests.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u129	I am responding to the four requests together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u130	So, before we proceed to the next request for clarification, I just wanted to take advantage of, on my own behalf, and certainly in the House, to congratulate Mrs Regina Bastos on her birthday. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Mr João Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u131	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, after her speech, the first question to be asked is whether the PSD today defends what it stood for and has done for four years, whether the PSD today defends the replacement of wages which, before, it has cut, whether the PSD today defends the replacement of pensions that it has previously cut or increased pensions that it has frozen, whether the PSD today understands that IRS' burden on labour income should be reduced, which, before, has increased more than one third and only one year, if the PSD today defends that the right to unemployment benefit and to sickness benefit that it has previously cut — and it has only been caught by a Constitutional Court ruling — if the PSD already defends today that, after all, pensions should not be definitively cut, as before, approved, in a law which it has voted in this House of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, these questions, of course, are merely rhetorical, because we know that you do not defend today the opposite of what you have done for four years. We know that today, if you continued in the government, you would continue to do exactly the same as you did for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u132	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u133	And, moreover, your speech, Mrs Deputies, concludes by confirming this. of the rostrum, the honourable Member, with some rejection, once again insisted on the idea that it is only possible to grow economically if we continue to liquidate social rights, if we continue to confiscate Portuguese incomes, avoiding the returns and rests that are made. This confirms that you are clinging to what you have done for four years in the government and against which the Portuguese have fought so much, and you have even defeated it. [[PCP applause.]] But, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, if it is true that you continue to defend what you have done in the past and if you are now defending the return to that past, it is no less true that you are trying to hide this option so as not to pay the political cost that it means. This is a danger that is present in this debate and we want to stress the size of the gravity it represents, because your intervention, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, confirms, indeed, this danger: to give credit to the claims and proposals of the PSD, and also to the CDS, which today seeks to give a different idea of what you have done in the government, is to contribute to the rehabilitation of the PSD and the CDS and to the rehabilitation of the policy of aggravating and exploitation that you have carried out for four years. Therefore, it is not possible to give credit to your speech and your proposals, because it means opening the door to the recovery of this policy of aggravating exploitation and impoverishment, which the Portuguese have rejected and which is being reversed. I would like to conclude, Madam Member, with a clear idea of confrontation with the options of the PSD and with a different perspective stated by the CFP in this debate: if this State budget is insufficient and limited in some of the measures to restore rights and incomes, the solution is not to return to the past, it is to go further in this reposition, it is to go further in response to the country's economic problems. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]] The solution is to renegotiate debt, to support productive sectors, to pay back wages and to value pensions. It is to value duties and social rights, not to return to the past and settle it all in the name of an economic growth that you have never achieved; on the contrary, you have had the result of the economic recession. Yes, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, because the only years you had economic growth to present were those in which the Constitutional Court forced you to return incomes, and they should have learned from that. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u134	The last registration for requests for clarification to Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque is by Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, at the end of almost 24 hours of debate of this State budget, the PSD attitude remains the same: complete denial of reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this has been the case in the past, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It's just the ladies. Members, when they presented the last State budget in this House as a government, were able to submit another corrective budget in the same afternoon. This is the first point I have signed, which well illustrates the contradiction of your past with us. It is that, now, there are no corrections and there are no falsities in the Budget, contrary to what you meant. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A second note, Mrs. Member, to say that it is not possible to look at you in the rostrum, and let us not remember that it was the Minister of Finance of the Government who was associated with the greatest social backwardness that lived in Portugal... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ..., which was associated with the higher income and pension cuts, the higher tax burden and the greater breakdown of the financial system! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You came here today to say that we are going to announce a new tax. No, ma'am! Unless we had to invent a tax for those who daily announce to us the misfortune and the descent of the Devil to the earth. And that's not what we're going to do, Mrs. Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let us speak clearly in this debate. Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque says that nothing has really changed in this budget. For I say to you, Madam Member, this is a budget of great sensitivity and social cohesion. unlike you, today we are not talking about cuts in pensions, we are talking about updating and an extraordinary increase in pensions for those who need the most and who have been penalized over four and a half years. But as if they had not just penalized them, if they were in the government today they would penalise them again, because they committed themselves to another 600 million euros in pensions in Brussels. No, Mrs Deputy, we have actually changed, and that is not our way. This is a fiscal stability budget, and this fiscal stability gives social stability, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD laughter and protests.]] It is because taxpayers know today that when they wake up tomorrow they will have no other tax, unlike what happened to you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs Albuquerque, let me remind you that it was not me, that it was not this government, but Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque who agreed with Brussels a huge increase in taxes, indirect and direct, which represented nothing less than EUR 1500 million in total, that is 0, 8 % of GDP (gross domestic product ). Mrs Deputy, as regards the increase in tax burden, we are talking: it was with your government, not with this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, it should be recalled that the honourable Member, one year ago, on 4 November, promised that the Government wanted to end the overtax of IRS ( income tax for natural persons) by the end of 2016. What fallacy was Mrs Deputy, since she had already announced that the end of the overtax was ultimately by 2020. Therefore, on speaking truth and rigorously in the State budget, we are also talking in this debate over these two days. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mrs Deputies, it is not possible to look at you and not ask you: then Mrs Deputies, responsible for confiscation in the form of withholding refunds, are you talking about seizures today? Are you talking today about this government's incapacity when it was its government that had the greatest withholding of reimbursements, deceiving taxpayers in Portugal? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And, Mrs. Member, let me tell you about the economy. Mr Luís Montenegro yesterday tried to create a lively moment in this House of debate without having any idea what we were discussing. Madam Member, I would like to remind you of the competition programme 2020. Do you remember today from the rostrum saying that the investment is wrong? But the honourable Member is responsible for the stagnation of the economy! [[PSD protests.]] at the end of the previous Government, the Competent 2020 programme had an implementation of EUR 4 million in support of small and medium-sized enterprises. This value is now 350 million and will reach the end of the year with 450 million euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Investment, Mrs. Member, is not just a word! To talk about investment is to have a concrete action. And ask the entrepreneurs—don't ask us, go to the field, go to your district, ask the entrepreneurs in your district—if they're not satisfied now...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u136	They're not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u137	... because, finally, the procedures were unlocked, they were able to apply and today they can have the ability to recover their companies and invest more. And, you know, Mrs. Member, investing more means growing. [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's hear the honourable Member quietly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, growing up for us is not just saying that the economy is a little bit better. No, sir. Members, growing means that people have jobs and, if they have jobs, they have greater social dignity and greater ability to make their lives with another comfort, comfort that you have taken away. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall finish, Mrs Deputy, by saying that this is indeed a three-mark budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u140	Bankruptcy, bankruptcy and bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u141	I repeat, this is a three-mark budget: sensitivity and social cohesion, stability and fiscal confidence and investment in the economy for job creation! The question I ask you is very simple: have you read the opinion of the Council of Public Finance, which is in favour of this State budget? Mrs. Deputy has to say, in this House, whatever you want. He says we can only grow with the increase in taxes. Mrs Deputy, please read your statement. The question I leave you with is: how much did your government save for the 40 hours of work? How much did your government save when you cut in pensions and wages? And how much was the debt of poverty left in Portugal? Two million Portuguese in poverty is the result of their policy, and that is what we do not want. We've actually changed for the better! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u142	In reply, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the questions in order, although some are common, so the answers will certainly serve the various Members. Ladies and gentlemen who put them in. Mrs Mariana Mortágua said that it was not because of bankruptcy that came down the IRC (tax on the income of the public) to companies, which was an option. It is true, Mrs. Member. Lowering the IRC to companies aims to promote growth and job creation and to avoid future bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] We didn't like the situation we were in, the Portuguese didn't like it either, and we need to be sure that this doesn't happen again. And that is why, among the many possible options, we have chosen to download IRC to companies. And note, Mrs Deputy, that still the tax revenue has increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u144	Increase the IRS and download the IRC!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u145	I will, after all, skip the order of questions to answer Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, who says that talking about investment is to have a concrete action. Mrs Deputy, I give you the example of a very concrete thing: the growth rate for investment in 2016, according to the figures of this State budget proposal, is 0,7 %. [[PSD applause.]] We are talking in particular about the fall in investment with your policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u146	That, yes, is true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u147	Mrs Mariana Mortágua said that we could have made EDP (Energy from Portugal) pay social rates. Mrs Deputy, we have made energy companies also contribute to the budgetary effort. On the other hand, with regard to energy companies, we will have to have a very interesting discussion on the diploma that was published yesterday, which has to do with the reassessment of assets and how energy companies will deal with this matter. Madam Member, we are waiting to see the consistency of the Left Block in this matter, in the advantages that are given to the GALP. We are waiting, Mrs. Member, to see this outrage all appearing! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] He claims that the PSD is critical with regard to European interests and rules. Madam Member, on interest rates hardly anyone can boast of having done better than we do: we renegotiated with European partners the significant fall in the interest rate of official loans and when we left the government we left the interest rate on the market at 50 points away from Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u148	What about the deal?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, see where this fee is right now and tell us who is contributing to increasing the burden of public debt. [[PSD applause.]] Will you not, with your actions, increase the interest rates on the market? At the moment, we have a policy of the European Central Bank which is more comfortable than ever before. All European countries are benefiting from low rates to replace expensive debt by cheaper debt. And what does this government do? Increases the interest rates on the market, postpones the repayments to the IMF (International Monetary Fund), because it starts to get no cheaper and, worse, it becomes difficult to go to the market to get the money you need!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u150	It was your dream, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u151	Mr. Minister of Finance, you know as well as I do what I'm talking about! [[PCP protests.]] The honourable Member also talks about tax increases and how the pensions would be paid. Madam Member, I am surprised that your party, with the other parties of the current majority, has dropped a government programme without having given itself to the work of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u152	They even asked the Constitutional Court to make the proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u153	Our options were there: the replacement of income had begun and there were no more cuts in pensions. Except in the case of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity to pensions above 4611 €, all other pension cuts had already been withdrawn. The replacement of State officials' salaries had already been initiated in 2015 and our option was absolutely clear and assumed: a gradual replacement, a gradual elimination of these exceptional measures, to allow, through economic growth, to generate the resources necessary to do so without further tax increases! I repeat: without further tax increases, which is not the option that this government is following! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. José Luís Ferreira said that there is, in this State budget, a recovery of income and asks whether the PSD is ill with it. Mr President, the PSD is ill-accompanied with the consequences of these options. Because restoring income is something we agreed on, we had a proposal to do more gradually, while you understood that to do so more quickly. The big difference is that, in order to rest with some, they are taking everyone, including those to whom they rest something. Therefore, the net effect is much less sympathetic than the one you want to make believe. But let us not live with the consequences that these options have for the future, as I said in my speech in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u154	Living badly is with people's satisfaction!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u155	When economic growth is compromised, when public spending is increased in permanence, what we are promising to the Portuguese is more tax and more debt. And these kinds of promises, the Portuguese dispense, but unfortunately those we know that you are capable of fulfilling. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u158	Mr President, the phrase is not my own, I think it is a previous Member of the CDS, but in fact the greatest threat to the social state is a broken state and that is how we received it, Mr President. You speak of the four years of government as if we had been in emergency, as if the four years were the same. [[PCP protests.]] What happened was that in the first two years we were in an emergency situation where, in fact, we had no freedom, we had no political options at our disposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u159	They made it all upset!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u160	Have you forgotten the "go beyond the troika"?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u161	It was not possible to choose in any other way, because the previous government led the country to bankruptcy and made commitments. Because we are responsible and because we are concerned about the social state we tried to comply with this memorandum to ensure that we continue to have resources to address the most needy. If you look at the data on the inequality that the recent study of the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation has presented, you will see that the measures taken in 2009 and 2010 have made it worse and that the measures taken by our government have reversed this worsening. It's written there, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members said we failed to fight unemployment. So you don't know the numbers of unemployment reduction and job creation that accompanied economic recovery? Even for those who look at the quarter-to-quarter economy and only see the last, ignoring the series, honourable Member, it is enough to pay a little more attention to see that the huge reduction in the unemployment rate that occurred while our government was in office is a fact, it is not subject to interpretation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u162	They sent the unemployed to emigrate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u163	So much so that when there were elections for the Portuguese to judge our performance, to your great discomfort, that will be permanent in these benches,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u165	They've lost the majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u166	...it was to us that the Portuguese chose! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u167	Congratulations! They won the elections...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u168	Madam Member, I am very proud of what I have had the opportunity to do for the country as Minister of Finance and to be part of a government that has inherited a broken country and in the mouths of the world for the worst reasons and has left a country growing free of political options for those who have come to do so. When you ask what you have changed in our amendments, you will, like all of us, wait until you get to know them. What we do not want is that during the consulate of this majority we commit more to the future than we will unfortunately not be able to avoid. That is why we are going to put forward structural proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u169	Can you get here without knowing the Constitution? Don't you know how it works?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u170	The credit they deserve is zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u171	But if I wonder if it is possible to move in detail to compose this Budget for 2017 more than it was for 2016, the answer is no. However, we try to avoid major evils for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u172	And the refund of the overtax? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u173	I make a final reference to the amending budgets addressed to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes and to those most frequently referred to this matter: the amending budgets result in an exercise of transparency and respect by Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] When what happens is different from what was planned, we saw Parliament present accounts and justify the fact. But that means two things, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen: transparency and truth, something that is not for everyone and certainly not for these benches! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u174	Bullshit and unconstitutionalities!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u175	Before we move forward, I ask the gentlemen. Members who create the conditions for us to hear the next speech from Mr Paulo Sá, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The State Budget for 2017 continues the path to the replacement of rights and income, incorporating positive measures that respond to some of the most urgent problems of the Portuguese people. We appreciate these advances, but we cannot fail to point out at the same time that the State budget contains clear shortcomings and limitations resulting from the options of the PS and the Government relating to public debt, the constraints imposed by the European Union and fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u178	They are options that carry to the State budget difficulties in pursuing a path of replacement of rights and income if they are not altered to cope with these constraints and constraints. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Public debt and its interest represent an unbearable burden for Portugal. over the last decade, successive announcements about the reversal of the growth trajectory of public debt were denied by reality. Public debt continued to grow to 130 % of GDP, one of the largest in the world in relative terms. Even in the most optimistic forecasts it would take several decades for public debt to fall below 60 % of GDP imposed by the Stability and Growth Pact. Interest paid annually for this debt consumes 10 % of the expenditure of the State budget, more than the National Health Service or more than twice the public investment. When the country has to pay more than EUR 8 billion interest per year, of course there is a lack of money to support the productive sectors, for public investment, for the exploitation of labour and workers, for the improvement of public services and the social functions of the State. Portugal cannot continue to bear the burden of a huge and unpaid public debt. A decisive action is needed to renegotiate the debt that significantly reduces the interest paid annually, freeing the resources that Portugal so needs for its economic and social development. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The budgetary options are limited not only by public debt but also by the constraints imposed by the European Union, through the Stability and Growth Pact, economic and monetary union and the budgetary treaty. The application of all the rules laid down by the European institutions, the fulfilment of all requirements in terms of budgetary deficit, primary balance and structural balance affect the functioning of public services, staff recruitment or public investment and leave little available for the replacement of rights and income. The use of this scarce budgetary margin is far from what is necessary to give a full response to the country's structural problems and to the full replacement of the rights and incomes withdrawn by the former PSD/CDS Government. It is unquestionable that a policy that responds to national structural problems and wants to pursue and deepen the replacement of rights and income requires a break with the conditionalities and constraints imposed by the European Union. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: In fiscal policy too, so that justice can be introduced, by consistently relieving taxes on workers and the people, it is necessary to face the big capital and eliminate its benefits and privileges. over the past few years, fiscal policy has been scandalous in favour of large capital. Let us remember that the former PSD / CDS government, while crushing workers and the people with a brutal tax burden, dropped taxes on economic groups and large companies through a drop in the IRC rate and the provision of aggressive tax management instruments and refused to create taxes on large fortunes or on financial transactions. We welcome the introduction of a new property tax, but we do not understand that the taxation of the real estate, which does not change the number of IRS steps, reducing the rates at the lowest and intermediate levels. We welcome the reduction of special payments on behalf of micro and small enterprises, but we do not forget that there is no progress towards a more appropriate taxation of economic groups and large enterprises. The country needs a new fiscal policy that breaks with the promotion of large capital and relieves workers, pensioners and families, as well as micro and small businesses. It needs an alternative policy which, by ensuring the functions of the State and public investment, distributes the tax effort more fairly and more appropriately to the development needs of the country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The defeat of the PSD/CDS government and its policy of exploitation and impoverishment in the October 2015 legislative elections opened a window of hope for a better future. In order for this hope to become a reality, it is necessary to break off the constraints resulting from public debt, from the European Union's taxes and from the promotion of large capital in tax matters. Only this failure will enable the policy of the replacement of rights and incomes to continue, only that failure will allow the problems of Portugal and Portuguese to be met. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u179	Mr Paulo Sá, the Bureau does not record any entries for requests for clarification, so you have the floor, for an intervention, Mr João Torres.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u180	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and Mr and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this discussion of the State Budget for 2017, we see the Portuguese with frontality: pensioners and pensioners who see their pensions increase and do not decrease, workers who see their incomes strengthened and not weakened, but also young people who have increased reasons to believe in the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at the end of a year of governance, the country did not solve all the problems, but made progress in vast domains that interfere with the future of new generations and their emancipation — a concept that was lost right in power. This is a Budget that brings good news to the Portuguese youth. The most frank, sincere and fair praise that can be given to this government is to continue to be inconsistent with the inequalities that still remain, which we have not yet been able to overcome collectively. It afflicts us, this House, and the Portuguese, to listen to the interventions of the PSD and CDS benches. The conscience thus weighs them so in an indisputable way that we have to say that they have been resigned four years in the government in the same way that today they are resigned in the face of the inequalities in the opposition. They have failed to honour the Government's commitment as they are, by the way, unable to honour the opposition functions in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President: We are discussing today and now the present and the future, but there is not one Portuguese who does not remember right-wing governance. There is not only one Portuguese who does not remember continuous and permanent de-investment in education. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] Today we strengthen the budget for this sector, without political juggling, and we will extend the distribution of school textbooks to all 1 students. the cycle and pre-school education to all children three years of age. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Peace returned to the school community, contrary to what they said yesterday. Where the law was first cut and where it was first cut to the right, today it is thought of education, it is promoted school success and it is effectively invested in the qualification of citizens. Nor is there one Portuguese who does not remember the cuts in higher education. Today, we invest more in science and knowledge, invest more in school social action and strengthen the funding of higher education institutions. Between 2011 and 2015 the number of students in higher education declined dramatically. Where we previously wasted our best capital, precisely human capital, today we rescued a generation that believed it was worth studying again. We are engaged in the Government, the Socialist Party and its Parliamentary Group, in which no young people stay behind and in 2017 we will continue to extend the social base of higher education in our country. Mr President, there is also not one Portuguese who does not remember the colossal emigration, the galloping precariousness and the levels of historical unemployment at which the PSD and CDS voted the country, particularly with regard to young unemployment. Today we take solid steps in combating precariousness, introducing more justice in green receipts and professional stages and valuing contracts without term and prospects of stable, dignified and decent life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will make better use of the resources we have at our disposal to define active employment policies, and it is good for you to do so. Right-wing Members hear that the right-wing Government spent two thirds of all the Community funds available for this purpose only in 2014 and 2015. — until 2020. Thus it is seen that the rigour of the right has never changed from rhetoric or from « verb-de-encher » in the Government of the Republic and in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And do they still have a bearing on the fact that, as they did here yesterday, they accuse the government of reducing these support? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the right, you have to stand up! Mr President, the State Budget for 2017 is not only in favour of young people in the fields of education, higher education or even employment and rights work. This is also the Budget that restores discounts on school passes for all higher education students and is also the Budget that revitalizes the Porta 65 program, which is fundamental to providing younger people the opportunity to rent a home and build a life. in fact, the VV government. Ex.died the lives of all Portuguese and, in particular, of young people! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, it is clear that this State budget causes embarrassment and discomfort to the PSD and the CDS, which are also visible in this House. Therefore, the right has sought to turn this debate into an auction of demagogy. Nothing we're not used to! But we do not forget or forget the recent history of the country's governance. Just because this past is well present in our memory, no Portuguese, no young person, in particular, has to ask, resorting to Portuguese or Brazilian terminology—as Mr. Luís Montenegro did here yesterday — « Is it the parties of impoverishment and austerity? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But if they do, the answer is easy and simple: there they are in the Assembly of the Republic, worn out, disoriented, lost-headed and without proposals. They are the only Saudiers of a past to which no Portuguese wants to return. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, over a period of one year, the country has moved from austerity to hope. The urban myths of Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho were definitely behind and this is the Budget that consolidates change and finds in the new generations an opportunity for the future and not a embarrassment for the country's governance. By this government, by the Socialist Party and by its Parliamentary Group no young Portuguese is or will be invited to leave. On the contrary, everyone is welcome to the construction of future Portugal. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have done this past year and as we have done in our history, we are responding with confidence, we are responding to demagogy with credibility and we will respond to the past and we will respond with future! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u181	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u182	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and Mr and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Torres, after hearing I have no doubt that the generation to which you belong is, yes, lost in the head! [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u183	What's that? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u184	Yes, indeed! Can not open message [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u185	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, be a little more calm so that we can hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u186	I shall repeat: Mr Socialist Youth Member ( JS) is in the head of loss! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u187	Mrs Berta Cabral, may I ask you to wait a little while, in the expectation that the honourable Members will Members create conditions for us to hear it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u188	The generation to which you belong has already noticed that you are lost in your head! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] The honourable Member put the « cassette» of his party and from then on continued the campaign on the previous government, when the stock exchanges actually increased with our government, while the emigration increased with the Government of Eng. José Socrates. And now he comes to speak in pensions, when, indeed, your generation, at this time, with the politics of your government, he doesn't even know if he's going to have pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u189	You can sit down that this is winning today!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u190	In fact, we have seen a discussion here in which the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has not been able to explain to the Portuguese why lower pensions are not increased. And the honourable Member has not been able to explain it either! On the other hand, he could not explain why there are reductions in funds for education. You are talking about education, but in an budget where there is less than EUR 140 million under the headings of this sector, it is appropriate to say that there is 'a lot of sheep and a little grape'. On the other hand, the honourable Member referred to employment, but 50 % of the job created is precarious, which means that what you bring us, as a whole, is a 'hand full of nothing'. You know, therefore, as well as we do that this is an austerity budget, a failed and unfair budget, since it gives those who have the most, withdrawing the ESC and ending the overtax, and does not give to those who have the least, who are the beneficiaries of the minimum pensions. For all this, Mr President, what I ask you is whether as a young person you believe even in the future of your generation, with these short-term policies that only take into account the survival of this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u191	To reply, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u192	Mr President, Mrs Berta Cabral, with her intervention, is clear for the whole House, who is in the head of the debate of the State budget for 2017. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] The young Portuguese understood well that they were humiliated by the government in which the honourable Member had the opportunity to participate. What we didn't expect, as young people, was with VV. Ex. in the opposition, we are insulted as we have been in this House. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] The truth is, however, that young Portuguese people today have more reason to believe in the future. Do you know what it's like to get lost, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u193	For the sake of the sights, you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u194	There's a Socrates in power!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u195	Although I do not have the ability of Mrs Assumption Crystals to display graphics or to turn them on the contrary, I will tell her that the downward curve of the graph that I now present translates the deinvestment that VV. e.g. they carried out in science, technology and higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, let's talk about education because youth policies are truly transversal. Mrs. Deputy has insisted again today on a lie! The State budget for education will increase again in 2017! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member asked me, I take it very sincerely that I believe in the future of my country and tell you that I believe in the future of my country. I remind you of something that, for me, was dramatic and at the time felt like a real betrayal to the young Portuguese. I ask you if you remember the first measure that former Minister of Education Nuno Crato took. It was the one in September 2011 that cancelled the allocation of cash prizes to secondary school students on the eve of that same award. And are you talking about promoting rigour and excellence? Oh, my God! Don't you remember? Oh, my God! Can no one on your bench elucidate what your government has represented for the new generations of Portuguese? Oh, my God! I will end by telling you that my generation is concerned about your future.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u196	It's your party's fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u197	The honourable Member knows that many people in my generation had to leave the country in force and many others saw their lives postponed, but this whole generation has a cross-sectional concern, which can be explained by the descending curve of the graph I mentioned recently, which is to realize that, with VV. Ex. in government, the risk of poverty in Portugal has increased tremendously. So we are all few to fight the inequalities that VV. Ex.s have deepened with your governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u198	The Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every year at this time, the Portuguese look at this House of the Republic and ask what the Budget will bring them again. The Government's proposal was known for weeks: less deficit, more income recovery, more social cohesion and sustainable support for investment and innovation. A well-received proposal in Portuguese society, in which many sought, without success, the enormous increases in taxes or the blind cuts of the past four years. the opposition was therefore expected, in this debate, to confront the options of the government and the consequent presentation of alternatives, even if of a more general or structural character. None of that, Mr. President. Very low policy — even 'piles' — and little or no content in the proposals. on the contrary, it was the shadows of the past that came here today about fiscal stability and elimination of the overtax of IRS in 2017, when they were responsible for the huge increase in taxes and for the greatest embezzlement of the electoral campaign, that rabula of the simulator of the return of the overtax. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As the Minister of Finance said, this simulator game did not come out; for the Portuguese, only frustration and deception. It is the shocks of the past that came here to talk about increases in pensions, but which were responsible for cutting hundreds of millions of euros in Portuguese pensions, particularly among the poorest pensioners, the beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, for whom, moreover, they had another card of evil prepared but never explained: the cut of more than 600 million euros in pensions. It was the shocks mentioned here today about investment, private initiative and companies, but left the economy stagnant in the second half of 2015, and it was the only one responsible for two years'delay at the start of Portugal 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the shadows that speak of ratings here, but which have left a very heavy inheritance in the financial system, "impelled under the carpet" for mere electoral reasons. It is the shocks of the past which, yesterday, here "broken garments" by public services, but which are the same which, in the name of the court of public expenditure, closed the interior of this country and interrupted a political consensus of four decades, splitting up the public school and destroying the adult qualification system in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a low policy, of which you will not pray history. The Portuguese, out there, little or nothing will link to these small events, and will continue their lives, despite this parliamentary dialectic, which does not approach the citizens of politics and, in particular, these leaders of the opposition parties. After this debate has been concluded, in general, at the end of this day, we will be dealing with a debate, in our specialty, which we sincerely hope will be more productive, because in this regard, the debate, in general, has been, for the PSD, and once again, a huge missed opportunity. But the marks of the draft budget law, submitted by the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these have come out of this debate immaculate. A responsible budget, which favours fiscal and macroeconomic stability, which is important for the financing conditions of the Republic and the economy. A solidarity budget, which continues to recover income and fight poverty, and at the same time reinforces domestic demand, which entrepreneurs have always indicated is critical to their investment decisions. A budget which reinforces the conditions for supporting investment and accelerating the implementation of the Community funds, and now also regains the capacity to accelerate public investment. A Budget that is a pillar of the reformist strategy of this government, a very important step in the implementation of the National Reform Programme. Time doesn't take long. Therefore, the urgency of the implementation of the reforms is for today and not for tomorrow. The Government reaffirms in this Budget an action matrix that will guide its action throughout the legislature. That is how this Budget is also part of this path and it deals, above all, with what is important, and not only with what is urgent. As you will recall, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the National Reform Programme is structured around six pillars. with regard to the qualifications of Portuguese, we must overcome the shortage of qualifications to have fewer inequalities in primary incomes, more opportunities, more competitive companies, more and better employment. That is why, with the 2017 Budget, we will open new classrooms for preschool, extend the allocation of free school textbooks no. 1. the cycle and bet again seriously on the qualification of adults. The 2017 Budget will resume the bet in more science and more knowledge, and also through the implementation of the innovation measures of the economy, provided for in the National Reform Programme. I highlight the stable recruitment of teachers and researchers or the Start-up Programme Portugal and the Seed Program, which encourage investment in startups and young businesses, which are today one of the main sources of disruptive innovation in the economy. As regards private investment, I should stress the acceleration of payments to companies within the framework of Portugal 2020, which will bring EUR 1000 million of incentives to Portuguese companies by the end of next year. This investment, which Portugal 2020 finally supported in 2016, is investment that qualifies our industry and increases its export capacity. We fought a lot in 2016 to get a machine started, to keep up with the ambitions of our companies, those who want to invest. With the efforts of public services, with the efforts of public officials, we succeeded, and the companies paid more ambitiously with a desire to invest. That is why private investment in non-financial corporations has already increased by 7 % in the first half of this year. Investment support tenders by the Community funds carry out successive records, and this is the best measure of the confidence of companies, investors in this budget and in the future of Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the implementation of measures of the capitalisation pillar of companies, we will make the use of own capital more attractive in private investment. We will also give a decisive impetus to measures to enhance the territory and to invest in railways, with the reduction of IRC for companies installed inside or with the important reform of the forestry system still recently approved by the Government. We will continue our efforts to modernise the state and allow me to point out the recovery of the Simplex, which in the past has radically changed the way companies and citizens relate to the state. But all this effort to modernize the country makes sense as a means of achieving an end: strengthening cohesion and social equality, which is also a pillar of the National Reform Programme. It is to this end that the State Budget for 2017 increases the value of pensions, broadens and reforms social benefits in the area of disability, strengthens the family allowance, to build a more just and more coherent country. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will thus have a budget which, instead of cutting the country's past and promoting insecurity in the present, as has happened in the last four years, is, on the contrary, an important pillar in the construction of a country of the future, more secure, more cohesion, more qualified and more innovative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u200	Mr Minister, you have signed up to ask for clarification, six Mrs. Members, to whom the Minister will, together, respond first to a group of three Members. Members, and then another group of three Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u201	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, the Minister, in his speech, has already taken into account the Government's perspective and this proposal for a State budget on the resources considered for investment in 2017. And as the Minister well knows, and we have often said so, the matter of investment is for the CFP an absolutely central and strategic issue, a national urgency that needs to be addressed, in particular, with regard to public investment. We are talking about productive and quality investment, real and concrete investment, and not payments and transfers to PPPs (public-private partnerships), ruinous businesses, and that have become even more ruinous by the hands of the previous government with the infamous renegotiations. [[PSD protests.]] in this legislation, we had the opportunity to verify the consequences and implications of this renegotiation process and what would have gone ahead in this Ministry and in this matter of PPPs, if the policy and strategy of the PSD / CDS government had not been interrupted and stopped. But when we talk about limited and insufficient aspects in a State budget that should go further in the strengthening of investment, in the modernisation of infrastructure, in the response to problems and degradation, in a scandalous way, in the PSD/CDS-PP government, with emphasis on the national rail network and the road network, it is precisely these issues that we are talking about. It is also important to highlight in this debate the fundamental issue of strengthening human resources in businesses and public services in matters which are directly accompanied by the protection of the Minister. In particular, we are talking about the recruitment of staff which is urgent to respond to the needs of transport users who are in the skin every day of the problems resulting from the shortcomings deliberately left by the previous government, which has blocked the hiring of staff and, in particular, has forced many workers and technicians, who today need to emigrate. The question that arises is also that of hiring staff, but with effective links,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u203	... with working rights and conditions, with the collective contract respected and applied in their companies. Therefore, we are not talking about an abstract or generic discussion of the precariousness and its evaluation. We are talking about measures that can be implemented, which can go into practice and solve the problems. It is sufficient for the Government to provide guidance to the companies concerned so that the problems are not kept or worsened, as has often been the case. We give the example, of course, of what is happening in the EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company), which is a maintenance company of the railway sector, where workers with precarious links are sent to unemployment, while resorting to temporary work enterprises, or, on the other hand, in the infrastructures of Portugal, where the replacement of temporary work by service providers is equaled. This means that there is a concrete option for companies and public services in which the government can and should give a signal of political guidance in this area. The same goes for collective bargaining, which is central to this issue, that the State budget, as we know, puts it in a way that, for us, is not enough, is not the right one, which is why we cannot fail to point it out. A question that we cannot but put on this issue — and we have already mentioned yesterday — has to do with the area of economic groups in relation to the strategic sectors. Specifically with regard to TAP, Minister, we cannot fail to express here our concern about what is happening to the airline, with what is resulting from the privatisation imposed by the PSD / CDS government. According to the CFP — and from the outset, we affirm this and we continue to say it — every day that passes is a lost day in the reversal of that privatisation, which was illegal and which should not be legitimized, legalized by political options, in order to maintain that power of economic groups that are harming the TAP, the companies of the TAP Group and its workers. in this sense, Minister, these issues remain here on central issues which, in the debate on the Budget, we cannot fail to take into account. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u204	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u205	Mr President, Minister, Portugal continues to be extremely lacking in public investment in infrastructure and transport. The policy of the former PSD/CDS government, which reduced public investment to unthinkable levels, entailed very severe supply breaks either in the availability of infrastructures or in the availability of means of transport, especially collective public transport, which reached absolutely critical operational levels. The news of overcrowded trains, which we have recently confirmed on the Douro Line, as part of our parliamentary journeys, as well as on other lines of the railway network, such as the North Line, or the reports that account for systematic reductions in rail supply, in which the train practically disappeared from the possibilities of choice by the citizens of the means of transport on travel, as happened with the link between Coimbra and Lousã, justify Mr Minister, to ask you the following: first of all, which part of the public investment that leads to the increase of means of transport, specifically for the modernisation and increase of the offer of trains to the CP? And, in terms of lighter rail, which investment for urban and suburban rail systems, either under the 2020 Railway Plan, is integrated into other programmes promoting public transport in regional links that compete for social and territorial cohesion, using more sustainable transport options? In addition, Mr Minister, this paradigm shift in the face of the previous right-wing Government, which had to privatise everything that moves in transport, will have as a result more effective employment in the CP, EMEF, Metro do Porto, Metropolitano de Lisboa, Carris, STCP ( Sociedade de Transportes Coletivos do Porto ), in the infrastructures of Portugal, as was claimed to them by trade union organizations of the sector, which were still in this House yesterday in struggle for collective bargaining and the end of job insecurity. Secondly, on infrastructure, this House approved, at the end of last year, a proposal for a National Railway Plan to look forward to the desirable development of the rail network in the long term. So, Minister, I ask you: is the Government available to include, under the announced National Mobility Plan 2030, the launch of a national rail plan that allows for correcting the wrong choices of the previous Government in the area of passenger transport? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u206	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u207	Mr President, Prime Minister, other government members, Minister of Planning and Infrastructure, there is a mark in the previous government that no one can forget. This mark which Mr Minister mentioned and which is worth stressing is that of the atrophy of the PT2020 programme, which has seriously conditioned private investment and which has called into question, delaying it, the dynamism of public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u209	This is a brand of PSD and CDS, which were unable to put on the ground, in the right time and with the desired effectiveness, the PT2020 program. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In addition, it is worth looking at the right-wing benches and remembering that when the Minister arrived at the Ministry, the PT2020 had already lasted two years and had only been distributed to the companies EUR 4 million. It's true! We've said this many times. But it is also true that it is necessary to remember, that you should not forget what you have not done and should have done with the PT2020 programme. Mr Minister, economic growth is an objective of this Budget, it is an objective of this Government and it seems clear that what is being done with regard to PT2020 to recover what the PSD and CDS have done is going the right way. The Minister has already announced a sum of more than EUR 300 million for businesses and has also announced a sum of more than EUR 2000 million approved for private investment. I have already said, and it is proven, that public investment is finally entering normal. [[PSD protests.]] But, Minister, we all know that what is essential and truly decisive for private investment is the functioning of the Portuguese financial system. We are well aware that most of the leverage of private investment is made by the national bank. Now, here too we have the mark on the right, PSD and CDS. Everyone knows that the situation in which the financial system finds itself is responsible for the errors and wrong options of the PSD and CDS in the last four years. In fact, if we remember the controversial cases of the national bank, we will see where that brand is. The BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ), it seems evident, has a PSD brand, I don't even need to stretch on this matter ; BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) was a PSD solution that failed, failed, and the New Bank continues to resolve and will have to be the PS solving the situation ;... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... about BANIF ( International Funchal Bank ) — my God, BANIF! - it's not worth talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u210	No, it's better not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u211	It was not necessary for the PS to say whatever it was about this matter. The European Commission was responsible for dismantling the trapping and the strategic and deep errors of the PSD and the previous Ministry with regard to BANIF. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, we all lost. Lost Portugal lost, and this made the Portuguese financial system an even greater disqualification. Finally, Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, on the General Deposit Box, subcapitalization was your option and today it is sad to observe your lack of patriotic sense in the notion that they do not have the duty to look at this bank and to its restructuring with serious eyes, in order to help improve the Portuguese financial system. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, Mr Minister, it seems clear that the path that this Ministry is following is what we need: the path of confidence in the structural funds, the path of good implementation of the structural funds and the way of good economic growth and combating unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u212	In reply, Mr Pedro Marques, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bruno Dias and Mr Heitor Sousa have both referred to the question of public investment and I think it is worth stopping us on it for a few minutes. in the 2017 Budget, we returned to public investment in a significant way. We want more, of course. We beat too much in the background, with sure that yes, and throughout 2016, we faced not only a brutal reduction in the pace of public investment verified in previous years, such as, including lack of projects and capacity to launch works, because not even that capacity was created. in the case of Railway 2020 — in committee I have already made this reference and I do not mind repeating here — nor have the projects left. Basically, what left PETI ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ) was the PowerPoint with indication of the lines where they thought they would make investments — which, in fact, changed according to the days. But the implementation projects, which we all know, need to be able to launch public tenders, so that we can have the investment that was envisaged in PETI, essentially, we did not find them in the Ministry. As for the public investment we're going to have in 2017, it's going to grow, we're going to have close investment. Above all, we will invest in the recovery of schools such as 1 schools. cycle and schoolsEB 2, 3 ( 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles), in health centres, also in cultural heritage spread throughout the territory, in the railway, as I mentioned, with important changes—with an important advance of the railway 2020 programme — but also in circulating material. Regarding Ferrovia 2020, I would like to stress that we will invest in the main lines spread across the territory by next year. It is ongoing, and we will continue next year, investing in the North Line, whose modernization, as you know, is very important for the competitiveness of passenger transport in the main urban axes of the country; we have the start of the modernization of the electricity line of the Minco Line, an ambition that was to be fulfilled, that it was in many roles and in many planes and that it is now on the ground, the work is actually happening; we have the start of the works on the Low Biengue Line — still this year we will launch the Modernisation Line of the Low Biengue competition, which was stopped, it has been closed too many years in the section between Covilhã and the Guard, and the investment will be on the ground next year;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... also in the south corridor, closer to the border, in the Sines-Caia connection, we will have concrete investment on the ground, already next year. Therefore, a good part of our 2020 railway plan is already going to the ground for the year. We worked this year so that this could happen by doing the projects, but also doing the work on the side of the Community funds, because not even the contests that allowed these projects to be financed in schools, health centres, cultural heritage or railway were launched, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. As you know, the essentials of this investment must be supported by Community funds. When we arrived at the government, these investments did not have competitions, the financing of these works was not available and we had to do this work. The proximity investment plan and the infrastructure financing plan are now on the ground. Today, the authorities throughout the country are presenting applications for schools, for cultural heritage, for the very important urban rehabilitation, which will give our cities more competitiveness, because we did the job so that this could happen. Today, we have much more than 2500 million euros of candidacy available to our authorities, in the areas of water, urban rehabilitation, schools, health centres, cultural heritage, etc. These policies were not initiated when we arrived at the government. Two years after the start of Portugal 2020, there was no single open competition to finance the territorial base investment by our authorities. Because this investment is being prepared now, some is already on the ground and much of this investment will be being realized in 2017 with a view to the competitiveness of our cities, to the cohesion of our territory, because we worked throughout 2016 so that this could be possible. As I said, the investment in rolling stock, which will be in full recovery next year, is intended primarily for the renewal of the "half-life" of the Alphas, which we will extend and extend next year. We started doing this renewal, but we want to do a lot more next year. We also want to recover some circulating material on the Azambuja Line and the Sintra Line, which will give better conditions of circulation on those lines. I would like to point out that our strategic option in this matter has been, and continues to be, the recovery of circulating material, which gives work to our EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company), gives sustainability to EMEF and jobs in EMEF and we take advantage of the circulating material at our disposal. We have to structure a strategic plan for the circulating material, which will be necessary when we conclude the extended electrification of the network to be developed over the next five years. But at the moment, the priority is to recover the circulating material in the CP ( Trains of Portugal ), through collaboration with EMEF. We are certainly very attentive to the situation of EMEF and the recent decisions of the Court of Auditors and will be working so that EMEF can remain competitive and as the great service provider to CP. Mrs. Members, I would also like to talk about the situation of the National Railway Plan and the National Mobility and Transport Plan 2030. As it is included in our strategic options for next year, we will be developing our investment prospects for the mobility we want for this country in the end of the next decade in 2030. We want to do so with consensus in the country, even with political consensus. This is something we have entered into in our Government Programme and, therefore, we will build, over the next year, this global mobility plan, which will convene the various modes of transport and which will have clear objectives on the issue of decarbonisation, the quality of passenger and freight transport and also the competitiveness of freight transport. This plan will seek to further release the rail mode, in particular with regard to the transport of goods, which has not been able to start over in recent years and which continues to be too low in relation to global transport. We will be doing this work and will certainly include the National Railway Plan in the National Mobility and Transport Plan 2030. Mr Carlos Pereira, there was the atrophy of Portugal 2020 or, otherwise, the past majority of Portugal 2020's past. Two years passed and when we arrived at the government there were EUR 4 million paid to companies. They were talking about investment, they were talking about the need to get the economy started — they are still talking today — but they do not assume the political responsibility of leaving Portugal 2020 bottled up. Support from incentive systems did not reach the companies, support from which companies had already applied was not contracted and companies, if they did not see the contractual support, obviously did not invest. With great effort, together with the public services and the CCDRs, with COMPETE, with the programs working in this area, we multiplied by more than 10 contractual projects, paid in time and time our commitment to Plan 100 and the result was an increase in the investment of companies in the first half. I would like to remind you that the investment of private non-financial corporations has grown 7, 7 % in the first half of this year and twice, Mr Deputy — not one, but two — to put forward the nomination records for the last 10 years to further support the investment of companies. We had EUR 3000 million for applications, in the competitions closed in the spring, and I would like to remind you that — still today we have this clearance — in the contests now closed in September and October, we had EUR 3.2 billion in candidatures. We've hit the record again, companies trust and want to invest in our country, Mr. Deputies! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also want to remind you of the importance of the investment that is happening, because it is an investment that makes our economy more competitive, which better prepares it to open up abroad. The investment resulting from the candidatures to Portugal 2020 is essentially an investment by the Portuguese industry and is an investment with much more technological incorporation than that which was the traditional investment of our companies. It is an investment with high or even medium technology incorporation, which means that companies are better prepared to present themselves abroad, with more competitive products, with more competitive production processes, with more competitive marketing processes. This is how we are preparing for the future of Portugal, i.e. with Portugal 2020, finally functioning and with the companies they trust and are investing in the country and presenting themselves for support because they want to invest, they want to create jobs in Portugal, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u214	We're going to move on to the second group of requests for clarification. Mr. Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u215	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister Pedro Marques, you may well - let me use a popular expression - "paint the blanket", which does not change the essence of the budget that you have brought to us and which is discussed today. This is a budget without ambition, it is a budget without strategy and it is a budget without direction. It is a budget without ambition, because it does not restore the investment and economic growth that the country needs. It is a budget without a strategy, because it points to a wrong economic model, which has already shown that it fails. It is a budget without direction, because it does not bring confidence and hope that the Portuguese and Portugal need. It is therefore an illusion budget, Minister. Is it a budget to think about the upcoming elections? It is! It is an electoral budget and it is a budget that aims, above all, the political survival of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u217	It is a budget made not to think about the future of the Portuguese but to think about your political future. It's a budget that leaves the country behind. It is a budget that continues to sell a wrong economic model, a failed economic model, is a budget that does not contribute to regain confidence, to recover investment and, above all, to recover economic growth. But, Minister, when I hear you, I confess to you that sometimes I have a doubt: I do not know whether you are the Minister of Planning, whether you are the Minister of Advertising and Advertising. It's just that so much advertising, so many millions, so many projects, so many works... it's really an extraordinary thing! [[PSD applause.]] It is not for today, it is for tomorrow, it is for the year... Moreover, Mr Minister uses the word 'we have', but, although it does not mean exactly how we know it, the expression 'comes to the future' is the one that should be used. I know that the Minister repeats these announcements to try to shape reality, and sometimes repeats it in a certain way and sometimes repeats it in another way. Anyway, he's trying to fool reality. The tactic is always the same. Not the same! Do you know what tactics are? It is the same as you used between 2005 and 2011 when you belonged to a government that did exactly the same exercise. And it was this government — the Minister must remember with certainty — that led the country to bankruptcy. When the Minister talks about the past, he should have a little more shame, he should have a little shame, he should remember the evil that his government and the Socialist Party did to the country during the five years they ruled and took the country to bankruptcy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The tactic is the same and, therefore, the Minister tries to confuse reality and to fight the facts. Mr. Minister talks about a lack of projects, but do you know what the papers say? They say that this year his ministry captured 430 million of the funds from the infrastructure in Portugal calling into question the execution of a series of projects that were under way and whose sum VV. Ex. They've taken captive.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u218	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u219	In fact, they did not captivate—I speak of these projects that you so much talk about and complain about their failure—they cut the money and prevented the realization of these projects, questioning the safety and conservation not only by road but also by rail, and you forgot to mention that. Mr Minister, I ask: will the 430 million that have been cut in the Budget this year for the infrastructure of Portugal be restored again next year? Does the Minister assure us that this is not the budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u220	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u221	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Minister, what are you budgeting for Portugal's infrastructures going to be even maintained or, again, is this a propaganda budget? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u222	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, who goes to the Algarve cannot continue to pay the tolls on the Via do Infante, because we speak of a region that has no alternative routes, has a railway that most looks like of the 19th century and is also the main tourist region of the country. PPPs (public-private partnerships) and in particular highways are of the biggest cancers that have corrupted the country's economic and social life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u224	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u225	I will now finish, Mr President. According to the State budget, EUR 1500 million per year is planned for this matter. Mr Minister, I ask: when do you intend to comply with the proposals and statements made by Mr Prime Minister, who recognized that the national road No 125 is a cemetery, has no alternative ways and admitted to lifting the payment of the tolls? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u226	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u227	Mr President, Minister, when we think about investments and, if we want to say, how to program investments, we have to define the objectives that we want to achieve. Of course, there are many deeply fair objectives, but the Greens understand that there are two objectives for which we cannot escape, and one of them is committed to combating climate change and reducing greenhouse gases. It is not just a matter of signing or ratifying the Paris Agreement, it is a matter of taking action to ensure that this reduction in greenhouse gases takes place. That is why, Mr Minister, the Greens for this State budget will make such important contributions as the reduction in the price of the pass for university students to encourage these young students to use collective transport and also the possibility of deducting, within IRS, the social passes acquired by families. In short, those who have the habit of often using collective transport, which means that they do not use individual transport, especially in their pendulum movements, will certainly benefit. It is an incentive for families to practice the use of collective transport. On the other hand, an objective which the Greens consider to be extremely relevant and which we cannot escape is linked to the fight against internality and regional asymmetries. It is a serious problem that we have in the country and that has been cemented, contrary to what should have happened, that was just to be fought. The proposal for a State budget which the Government has submitted to the Assembly of the Republic and which we are discussing already contains a measure which has been proposed by the Greens and which we believe should be valued, which is the fact that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises can have a substantial reduction at a rate of 12, 5 % in IRC and the first 15 000 € in collectable material. We believe that this measure that the Greens have proposed for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises must be valued because they create jobs and their dynamics is important. On the other hand—and this measure is linked to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises operating within the country—there is another associated objective, which is to re-enhanish the country's interior, to give it life. And "give him life" is important for such relevant issues as forest fires. All the reports of the Assembly of the Republic which detailed measures and resolutions on forest fires have concluded that the retraining of the rural world and the human presence within the country are fundamental issues for the prevention of this scourge of forest fires. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a question, or perhaps to think about it — and on this matter the Minister has already spoken because other Mrs. Members asked him about the railway precisely because the investment in the railway meets these two major objectives that I have announced: the fight against climate change and the fight against regional asymmetries in the country. Mr Minister, the truth is that we have to be deeply ambitious about investment in rail, because in recent years what has happened has been a retreat towards these objectives. Numerous lines were closed, they were miles and kilometers of abandoned and closed rail, unlike the course that the country should have made. That is to say, we are now starting with a much more backward starting point. We must be very ambitious! in this mobility plan that the government will prepare and certainly put into broad public discussion, the National Railway Plan must have a huge highlight. I dare say more: it cannot be at the level of the other modes of mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u228	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u229	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, this is the idea I wanted to give. In addition, I wanted to know what contribution your own Ministry will make to combating climate change and internality. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u230	In reply, Mr President, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Leite Ramos, without a course and without a strategy, let me say, has been the PSD throughout this debate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u232	And I don't need to talk about it the other day. Even this morning they said that it was the strategy of the previous budget and that we had now changed for investment and for exports and now Mr has come to say that we have repeated the wrong strategy. Therefore, you have to understand yourself and, if you do not walk in this cacophony, perhaps some Portuguese understands your strategy and your direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He also told me that I am the minister of propaganda and that I want to shape reality. Mr President, I do not want to shape reality ; who is shaping reality are the thousands of entrepreneurs who are investing and who are applying for Portugal 2020, because it is finally possible to apply for Portugal 2020. You know, Mr President, who is shaping reality are those entrepreneurs who have made more than 6000 projects approved and more than 25 000 jobs will be created — 25 000 jobs will be created — based on the projects they have applied for. Do you know why these projects are really going to be a reality? Because the incentives that are approved depend on the achievement of the objectives with which companies applied.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u233	Do it! Run! It's not just about negotiation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u234	Mr President, if you want me to talk about implementation, I am talking about implementation. at the end of two years of Portugal 2020, Portuguese companies had received EUR 4 million of payments, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u235	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u236	How does it explain that the work of a government and public services over less than a year will allow more than EUR 370 million to be paid to Portuguese companies and to many thousands of projects that are finally on the ground because we have worked with public services to support private investment? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] There was a desire to invest, Mr ; there was no one to support, because you have pasted Portugal 2020. And they also did it with public investment. As I said earlier, any budget allocation that you have entered would be completely indifferent because there would be no plans to carry out works. [[PSD protests.]] I also reply to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia saying that today we have the conditions to invest and, as I said, we will increase the investment by rail in the coming year. [[PSD protests.]] This investment will increase EUR 100 million because we finally have the conditions to invest. We have made the award of the Mining Line, we are doing the renovation of the North Line, we will finally launch the Competition of the Lower Beira Line, we will do works in the south corridor because we have been working all year long for this to happen. And even the competitions for access to Community funds, you have not been able to make it possible for Portugal's infrastructure to be financed. We have been working for now to be able to harvest the fruits, which is to have more investment in the railway, an investment that will allow, as we have already mentioned, to pass as far as possible the transport of goods from the road to the rail mode, which will also contribute to the decarbonisation of our economy. We want to release the railway mode, of course. The modernisation we are doing on the North Line, as we are going to do on the Mint Line, will improve the conditions of rail passenger transport and release the rail transport of passengers on these important lines. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would also like to say that the Paris Agreement enters into force today and that we are fully in line with the objectives of this Agreement in this area. He informed me - Mr Minister for the Environment - and I think that this information should be shared with the House - that, through the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use), an important contribution to the decarbonisation of transport in Portugal will be launched by the various transport companies these days. More than EUR 60 million will be available for the purchase of 500 buses, which will improve passenger transport conditions, an important contribution to the decarbonisation of transport. Mr Vasconcelos — and I shall finish — with regard to the Algarve, we have been investing extensively on several fronts. We reduced the price of the tolls in relation to those we committed to, as in the motorways of the interior and those that were further away from the urban areas, and therefore was included in A22 ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u237	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u238	... as you know, we invested in the first half, and there were works, in EN 125 — in fact, we will again do works in EN 125 to improve it, in the context of the negotiation of the contract; works are being done at the airport; finally, a very important set of investments in the Algarve is now being made. We have fulfilled what we commit ourselves to reducing the price of tolls, improving the entry of tourists in the Algarve this year in the summer;... [[PSD protests.]] ... and, Mr President, with us finished the 'fishing-fish' with regard to the electrification of the Algarve Line. During the PETI presentations, a few days included electrification of the Algarve Line and other days did not exist. I would like to say to you, Mr Commissioner, since you referred to this issue, that the electrification of the Algarve Line is from the 2020 Railway and will be done in this period. It is a priority of this government! We are investing in an integrated way in improving mobility, accessibility of this important region of the country and obviously bet on the right conditions to keep the Algarve competitive, accessible and as one of the motor regions of our economy and our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u239	They are still registered, to speak, six gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I should like to inform you that the Bureau will not have any flexibility in terms of time-surpassing. Mrs Júlia Rodrigues has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : After a PSD/CDS government that in four years impoverished the country, worsened social inequalities, cut pensions and salaries, closed proximity services, further distanced the interior of the coast, stopped structural works also for my district, such as the Marão tunnel, the Portuguese felt fear, insecurity in the future and many left only the alternative to emigrate. Finally, he fled from a country that mistreated the young and the less young. in rural areas, as in large centers, we lived the total lack of hope, motivation to go to struggle and believe that it was possible to walk. The way was made, as they repeatedly said, with more austerity, with more difficulty, at the expense of the most disadvantaged. Anyway, it was announced that it was either like that or it was like that! Europe was blamed, the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) and the previous government. The troika has become part of our routines. Companies to be closed, entrepreneurs and workers in unemployment, parents and grandparents supporting children and grandchildren. We were in a dead end. Who lived in the real country, which I don't think is the case with the ladies. Members of the PSD and CDS banks, many members of the government at that time, do not understand what has already been said about this State budget and the sectoral public policies included in the various ministerial programmes. This does not mean the close attack on the growth and fiscal consolidation strategy, employment promotion policies, territorial cohesion policies, finally included in a national programme with measurable objectives and concrete measures. The offensive against what is perceived to be a recovery of family trust, an improvement in living conditions, an investment in people's qualification, quality of life and social support is not understood. It is not understood how it is lost, with the current thirst for power of this right, the discernment between the path of fear and stagnation and the journey of conquest and of regaining confidence and hope in the future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u241	We do not understand how to censure the government's efforts to cover real black holes, only now known, but never budgeted. For example, I am talking about the EUR 200 million hole in the Rural Development 2020 programme which spent the budget allocation for years on agri-environmental measures in months. Yes, this was the inheritance of former Minister Assumption Cristas, current CDS-PP leader. The courage of this government now mixes with the Azedum of the PSD and CDS benches, which, they fear, seem to want the country to sink again. We all know that the road is not easy, it is rigorous, demanding and requires the work of all Portuguese. But it is also equal in rights, fair in tax and fair obligations, balancing efforts and restoring social support to those who need it most. It is a matter of justice, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental pillar of our democracy. It is social justice, economic justice, but also territorial justice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, in the area of the political priorities of this government, agriculture, forest, rural development and the sea, constitute fundamental axes of sustainable development of our economic growth. The first highlight is undoubtedly the increase in the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture and also of the Ministry of the Sea, which supports the government's political commitment in valuing the territory as a pillar of national cohesion and of the social and cultural development of the national territory. We can highlight here the guarantee of the operationalization of the Community support funds ( Mar 2020 ), double the weight of the sea economy in national GDP, and the guarantee of the competitiveness and sustainability of the agro-industrial and forestry sector. This Government of the Socialist Party, with the parliamentary support of the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens, presents to the Assembly of the Republic a State Budget fulfilling the Government Programme, the National Reform Programme, the European Rules and the Constitution of the Republic. In contrast with the PSD / CDS government, in these 11 months the current government has developed the country and has returned hope and trust to the Portuguese; social inequalities have been balanced; pensions and salaries have been refused; proximity services have reopened; finally, distances and barriers have been cut between the interior and the coast; structural works for the Bragança district have been completed and inaugurated, such as the Marão tunnel. This budget meets the Portuguese people, responds with solutions to people's problems, is socially inclusive, economically and environmentally sustainable and respects the dignity of life that all citizens deserve. In short, it's a budget made to think about people! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u242	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues, made an intervention on territorial cohesion and on productive sectors. The CFP believes that the State budget we are discussing today is another opportunity to change the policies of the previous Government, PSD/CDS, in the areas of agriculture and fisheries but, in order to make this change, we need to go further in this Budget. The policies of the PSD and the CDS, which need to be changed, looked at the big ones — for the agribusiness, for the multinationals — and devalued small agriculture, small fishing and rural development. The PSD and CDS government has forced a small farmer, who wanted to sell some cabbage, to sign up for finance ; it has withdrawn EUR 200 million from PRODER(Rural Development Programme) in the area of forest and recreation ; it has drawn up as a horizon for 2020 the elimination of the deficit in the agri-food balance, but still today this deficit is more than EUR 3200 million ; in the revision of the policy (common agricultural policy) it has lost the opportunity to value family agriculture, but it has taken the opportunity to transfer more money to large farms, allowing them to compete with small ones in small investments, placing the superintensive olive to receive money from agri-environmental measures and refusing to implement the ceiling. The action of the PSD/CDS Government was cast out in propaganda that convinced, or tried to convince, urban Portuguese people that the rural world was a paradise, but it never explained how many young farmers remained in agricultural activity after the compulsory period of installation, and could not deny that, with its action, the forest, agriculture and fisheries lost more than 150 00 jobs — they said, in fact, that this was a sign of the path of modernity that agriculture was following. The country may even produce more, but if this wealth produced is more concentrated, it is of no value to the development that the country needs. Madam Member, these are small examples that have determined the need for a government alternative to which the CFP has contributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u244	Mr. Deputies has already exceeded your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u245	I will finish, Mr. President. This government alternative must correspond to policy alternatives and therefore we need to do more to improve production efficiency and this improved yield must face constraints and interests installed, but also to reduce the costs of production factors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u246	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u247	Therefore, the PCP is available to intervene in the focus of discussion in the specialty by presenting proposals aimed at reducing costs with energy factors and we would like to know if the PS accompanies us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u248	In reply, Mrs. Júlia Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u249	Mr President, Mr João Ramos, in fact both territorial cohesion and agricultural policies, forests, rural development and the sea are one of the priorities of this Government. I highlight local marketing circuits so that small producers can sell directly to customers and consumers and the value chain bet, creating a value-added for production and eliminating context costs, which he also spoke about in relation to the marketing of products and large distribution chains. We follow your concerns and, in the field of expertise, we will be available to coordinate these situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u250	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u251	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The Government's strategy for next year implies a budgetary effort of at least EUR 1800 million and, as a result of a fall in tax revenue by more than EUR 600 million in response to the initial forecast, this year a deficit of 2, 4 % should be reached. The challenge of meeting the minimum requirements of European budgetary rules is enormous. We have a chance of real action on these challenges if economic interests do not overlap with those of the people and those of the common good. Considering the context in which this Budget presents itself and this need to obtain revenue, considering that to cope with the deep ecological recession in which we live and to meet sustainability goals, we need to change habits and start a path of adoption of true fiscal justice on all activities that do not internalize costs. Costs that we all pay and feel through the exhaustion of ecosystems, air pollution or galloping degradation of our health; costs that will require Portugal, in the short and medium term, a huge effort in the order of 2% of the value of GDP to cope with adaptation and mitigation of climate change. The NAP will therefore, as a specialist, present a number of measures aimed at helping the government to obtain more revenue, through those who, proportionately, pay less, contribute to the decarbonisation of the country and to find immediate solutions to the thorny path that will be adaptation to climate change. The State Budget for 2017 should already reflect a political will to implement a speedy and efficient transition from a fossil fuel-based economy, with a heavy carbon footprint, to a zero carbon and methane economy and a energy base based on truly clean and renewable energy sources. The requirement of a new energy paradigm is not compatible with the production of electricity from coal. The NAP proposes the end of the tax exemption on fuel products for this activity and, at an initial stage and at a rate of 6 %, the State would collect around EUR 10 million per year. Another measure relates to a reversal of public investment in new dams that have been deceptively presented as « private investment ». in reality, they are investments supported by a direct subsidy that we propose to revoke, which means savings to the state in the order of 22 million euros / year for 10 years. This support therefore constitutes a perverse and totally unjustified benefit to the concessionaires of these undertakings. The NAP also proposes that it reflect on the Leviana and incredible waste management that the country continues to do. About 70 % of urban waste produced in Portugal goes directly to landfill or incineration. Why? Because it is so cheap to bury or burn waste that does not compensate or encourage operators to turn on the road to recycling. It is so cheap, but so cheap, bury or burn waste in our country that Portugal is becoming the waste of Europe — in fact, Italy alone will receive over the next year 60 000 tonnes. The NAP proposes to increase the urban waste management rate to double, with a direct impact on the revenue of the EUR 30 million, placing Portugal in the path of meeting the European recycling targets already by 2020, which are 50 %, that we are far away. Moreover, and to consolidate the transition we defend, we propose the gradual increase in the rate of VAT of pesticides and fertilizers, highly oil-dependent products that introduce toxic chemicals into the food chain. Agricultural policies must be urgently renewed, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers! The demands of consumers, citizens and the environment so dictate and Portugal is resisting, it continues to resist! We must start a totally different path, we must even produce food differently. We need to abandon the policy of support for conventional agriculture which has enormous impacts on soil desertification, water pollution, deforestation, loss of biodiversity or greenhouse gas emissions and which puts chemicals daily on the Portuguese dish. It is irrational to continue to allocate tax benefits to the production and use of pesticides and chemical fertilizers. We have and want to invest in the common good first. Portugal has managed to extinguish the guards and the last governments have prepared themselves to extinguish the Florist guards and nature watchers. The increase of these corporations will save many million euros to the state, preventing forest crises and fires and preserving what is all of us and which has priceless value. In Portugal there are only 115 nature watchers when the ideal would be an effective 525 vigilantes. Spain has a body of 7000 effectives and only in Andalusia, a territory with an area similar to ours, there are 900 nature watchers. A closer NAP budget will take into account the urgency of planning and implementing environmental strategies that protect the balance of our ecosystems, reduce the rate of biodiversity loss and ensure a harmonious and prosperous future at social and economic level. In conclusion, I will say that the NAP will propose, in the specialty, a set of more than four dozen proposals that envisage the balance between expenditure and revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u252	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u253	I will even conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are convinced, in the NAP, that this package of proposals can be objectively analyzed, independently of ideological barriers, and can represent a conscious turn for a political ethics that goes beyond corporate interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u254	For an intervention, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u255	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government and, in particular, Minister for Culture, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State Budget for 2017 finally comes back to culture the hope that was deposited with it by the vote on the left in October 2015. It is not enough to have competent rulers, committed and motivated in the cultural sector, not enough to have an attentive, active and intervening Prime Minister in the cultural area, as we probably never had before, it was absolutely vital that we begin to effectively reverse the nefarious cycle of disinvestment that the cultural sector was suffering. If it is true that since 2005 culture has been losing budget, the biggest loss was in 2012, with the initial 2011 budget going from 246 million to 200, 6 million, in 2012. He lost almost 50 million with the arrival of the right to power. The years that followed confirmed the culture plan, not only at budgetary level, which reached a minimum of 160 million budgets, but also at programme level. The governmentization of culture has reached unbearable peaks. The irrelevance of the holders, the destructuring of the services, the impoverishment of their frameworks and the lack of a global vision led to a coma state, only interrupted by the tenacity of those who did not let themselves be defeated or by those who turned to the so-called cultural industries. If 2016 has finally brought stability and calm, especially from April 2017, it will bring the strengthening of means to pursue the goals that the Government has set for culture and for social communication. That's the signal we needed. It is the beginning of a path that will certainly consolidate itself and confirm that the development model of this government is, in fact, based on the value of knowledge, culture and values intrinsic to the training of Portuguese. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not rhetorical, it is not empty words. Little by little or much, the Ministry of Culture effectively has an increase of 6 % in its 2017 budget,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which, in the context of the international obligations to which this State budget is conditional, proves that for PS culture counts. The same cannot be said to the right, which has never been able to do the same. The figures presented in the State Budget for 2015 were not real and were duly dismantled at the time. There are obvious reinforcements in all sections of the State budget for culture. In all of them there are clear increases: in the Portuguese Cinemateca, in the Côa Parque Foundation, in the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage, in the Cultural Development Fund (FFC ), in the Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual, in the OPART (Artistic Production Agency, EPE) — there is an increase of more than 4 million — in the National Theatre of São João, and even in the foundations there is a reversal to 20 % of the cuts that the right imposed. And even the works of Vieira da Silva will be acquired, with an investment of 5 million. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to argue against the evidence of the numbers. The culture will have more budget in 2017, even though some would like it not to be. But it is! The culture wins with this Budget and therefore the Portuguese win with this Budget. in the field of social communication, as we know, will be extended the offer of TDT (Digital Terrestrial Television ) and the PS Parliamentary Group will present an amendment, in the specialty, to restore 2 million euros to the Lusa, which were missing in this Budget. So, in addition to the budget we have for culture, we will still have an additional EUR 2 million to consolidate the final cake. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the CAV ( contribution to the audiovisual) of RTP, there have been complaints about the direct delivery of the money to the Ministry of Finance, but there is an opinion of the Court of Auditors that requires it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u256	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u257	My dear ladies. Members, unlike the previous one, this Government complies with the Court of Auditors'instructions and complies with the Constitutional Court's instructions. This government is acting within the framework of the law, so it will have to comply with the instructions of the higher bodies and, in this sense, it will have to make that orientation of the funds. however, this House will evaluate and ensure that all the money will go entirely to RTP. Among the main programme measures, I am referring to the adoption by the Council of Ministers yesterday of a measure of the greatest importance. A resolution was adopted establishing that the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will jointly coordinate the strategic policy for the promotion of Portuguese abroad. This is a measure of the greatest importance. They are not empty words, they are concrete measures. There is also the participation of culture in the participatory budget—it is an innovation that will bring the citizens of culture closer together—and measures that cross tourism with culture. I also highlight the conclusion of programme contracts with national theatres. In four and a half years, the right failed to sign multi-year contracts with national theatres. In addition, the last contracts were signed with the last Socialist Government. My ladies and gentlemen, finally, culture is underway with this socialist government. It is a new cycle that is under way and I would just like to ask the Prime Minister and the Government the following: I heard yesterday the Minister of Finance saying that they were free from captivating health and education. I remember a period when science, for 10 years, was without captivating. It was very good that culture could also benefit from a cycle of exemption from captivating, which would lead to a great advance to cultural policies. Let's hope this happens in culture as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u259	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we approach the end of this phase of the debate on the State Budget for 2017, it becomes clear that we have arrived here because we have met with rigour and determination what we have proposed when, for months, we have presented the State Budget for 2016. What we have seen in this debate is a manifestation of despair and disorientation of opposition, right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remember saying here, at the end of the debate in general on 23 February last, that our only commitment, plan A, was to present a budget that reopened the path of hope and confidence for the Portuguese. Our only plan B, that so many spoke about and by which the desperate right, at the time, sighed, was to execute this Budget with rigor and determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we are here with the political stability of those who have interrupted a cycle of four years of confrontation with the rule of law, of four years of unconstitutional budgets. We are here with the budgetary stability of those who have replaced four years in which Parliament has been confronted with the debate of eight Reformary Budgets due to failure, error in forecasts and non-compliance with the obligations of the Constitutional Court, We are here discussing a Budget for 2017 without needing any correction of the Budget for 2016, which will have the lowest deficit in democracy, with the 2, 4 % that we pointed out in the Report of this Budget. We are here with the social stability of those who have waged in the social dialogue, of those who have waged in the recovery of income, social justice, the creation of conditions for private investment, for public investment, for the mobilization of the structural funds, for development. But here we are also with an Budget which represents a deep confidence in the decentralization and enhancement of territorial cohesion as fundamental elements of public policies in which there are neither territories nor Portuguese that can be forgotten nor abandoned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the budget which lays down to promote local self-government and accelerate the implementation of European funds. This is the budget that bets on cohesion and territorial competitiveness. This is the budget which consolidates the path of citizenship and equality as marks of budgetary policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the Budget which, by assigning to local authorities an amount of almost EUR 75 million, also restores the level of transfers above what existed in 2011, after four years of attack on local power, centralism and mistrust in relation to local management, which has always had positive budgetary balances in these four years and which has still stood out, as in the first half of 2011 by reducing the overall debt volume of the local sector by more than EUR 200 million. This is the budget of a government that believes in decentralization. When the desperate right, at the last hour, tried to make direct adjustments of the Sociedade de Transportes Coletivos do Porto, this is the government that will decentralise, for the municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, the management of collective transports.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u261	By the way, Lisbon too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u262	While the right has manifested itself leaving the country, closing courts, putting justice more than 100 km from the citizens in so many locations, this Budget allows the reopening or raising of competences of 43 courts, ensuring a justice of proximity to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Where the right, in a hurry, came to eliminate any benefit that would allow hope for the inside, destroyed employment and promoted emigration, this is the Budget which creates a rate of 12, 5 % IRC for small and medium-sized enterprises located inside. This is the budget which, by approving the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, puts on hope, places on citizens, within, throughout the national territory, places on a contract of trust with local authorities that will finally consolidate this time the decentralization and administrative simplification, which are the real pillars, the cornerstones of the real reform of the state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u263	Two honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask the Deputy Minister how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u264	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u265	Of course, Minister. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u266	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister Eduardo Cabrita, Mr. Members, in fact this State budget for the local power sector represents once again, and it was already in 2016, a re-encounter with the constitutional principles of autonomy and subsidiarity. Therefore, above all, this Budget, with the Socialist Party, means that we have once again respected local autonomy, the European Charter of Local Autonomy, as well as the authorships of this country, representatives of the peoples of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, I would also like to say that, in this budget, three major changes are indeed highlighted, or the consolidation of changes, which are under way. First, the strengthening of the powers and autonomy of the authorities within the framework of leaders; secondly, the strengthening of the autonomy of the municipal assemblies;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u267	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u268	... thirdly, with regard to tax exemptions and benefits, there is a replacement of autonomy, there is a belief in development and territorial cohesion...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u269	You really have to conclude, Mrs Deputy, this is not a rhetorical issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u270	I will finish, Mr. President. ...there is, above all, an investment in trust. Says Jeanette Boulet that the heart of democracy dwells in local power and I say that, in this Budget, once again, this democracy, this to believe in local power...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u271	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u272	... is shown in each line and, above all, in the increase in transfers by 2, 9 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u273	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u274	We continue to strengthen the local power and populations of this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u275	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u276	Mr President, Deputy Minister, you came to define the previous government, the one that saved the country from bankruptcy, as a government that confronted the rule of law. Well, Mr Minister, confronting the rule of law is to take the country to bankruptcy and then flee. Doesn't this remind you of anything, personally? Oh, my God! He was part of the same government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u277	Who ran away? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u278	Several of those here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u279	Secondly, Mr Minister, I would like to say that this budget is in line with a lot of things. It is, of course, in comparison to reality, in comparison to the middle class, in comparison to growth, in comparison to exports, in comparison to investment. In fact, this budget is only consistent with the increase in public debt and all kinds of taxes, direct and indirect,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... whether they are the "IMI of the Views" or the attack on the property of the Portuguese, for purely ideological reasons. Mr. Minister finished with transport and authorities, which are the mirror of this government. With regard to transport, there are no tickets to the subway, but the Minister says: « Azaucho! It was a coincidence! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Normally, when all goals fail, they say it is Brussels' fault, but here it was just a lack of luck. There are trains to repair, there are missing carriages. He came here to talk about the STCP, saying he took them back to the authorities. Mr. Minister, you returned them to a private consortium in the face of the silence of the Left Block and the PCP. To a private consortium, Minister! Finally, and speaking in the authorities, this budget shows the facilitation and lack of rigour that led the country to bankruptcy and caused the former government to withdraw. It is up to the autarchs to be held accountable for their decisions before the Court of Auditors. To manage public good, rigour, supervision and PS are, yes, concepts in comparison, many years ago, and the Portuguese have paid very much. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u280	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Susana Amador and Mr. Nuno Magalhães, I thank you for the questions you have raised. In fact, this is a budget that consolidates a relationship of trust with the country, consolidates a relationship of trust with the Portuguese and also with local authorities, those that are essential in the mobilization of European funds, in the requalification of schools, in public investment, in the commitment to a democracy of proximity. It was this trust that never existed with the disastrous government that Mr Nuno Magalhães has supported and that allows here a contract of confidence for decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u283	Therefore, a Member who supported here the true state of constitutional site, who was unable to support a single budget that was in accordance with the Constitution—and beat all the records, three unconstitutional budgets and a previously declared unconstitutional —,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... lacks the truth here by not accepting what is today evidence: we live in a time of democratic normality, in which all votes are equal, all Members are equal and all Portuguese have contributed to place them wherever they wanted, that is, in opposition, to be held responsible for the one who was your four-year budget management disaster. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] There were eight corrective budgets, of failure in failure, and the attempt of a shameful adjustment at the last hour, to a week of elections. It was €900 million that they wanted to deliver to the private! We decentralised the transports of the port to the authorities of the Grande Porto. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u284	Mr Minister, he has already exceeded his time, so I ask him to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u285	Finally, the lack of respect for 40 years of democratic local power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u286	What lack of respect? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u287	Tell me, sir, if you think...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u288	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u289	...a ruler or a member are better elected, are they more Democrats than a local electorate? You will defend this in the municipal assembly where it was elected.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u290	Please conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u291	It is to end this time that we present this Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u292	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for a six-second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I would like to tell Mr. Deputy Minister that, in front of bankruptcy, do not run away, do not resist! [[PS protests.]] We receive, on your part, a country in bankruptcy; we give up a country to grow, a country to export, a country to invest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u294	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u295	I hope the story is not repeated this time. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u296	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, we have reached the end of the debate period, in general, of the proposals of lein. 36 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2017 and 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. We would continue the period for the closing of the debate and the subsequent vote, but we will now interrupt our work, which will resume at 15 hours and 30 minutes for this purpose. [[It was 14 hours and 15 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to resume our work, so I ask you. Authorities please open the galleries. [[It was 15 hours and 35 minutes.]] Before opening the closing period, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to give us an account of the initiatives that have taken place in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau and were admitted, Bill No. 341 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendments to the Statute of the Public Manager and to the legal systems of the business sector of the State and the local business sector ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, with connection to 1. the Commission and hear the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, and draft resolution No 538 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — proposes the strengthening of the operational assistants of schools and their adequacy to needs, in particular by revising the criteria set out in Ordinance No 29 / 2015 of 12 February ( CFP ), which falls to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u298	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a brief break so as to allow the government to be present. [[Pause.]] Now, yes, all the conditions are created for us to begin the closing period of the debate, in general, which precedes the period of statutory votes, including the major options of the 2017 Plan and the 2017 State Budget. First of all, for an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Meeting the enormous challenges in the environment area, recognizing the need to design realistic and promising scenarios, in the perspective of ecologically balanced growth, is above all to protect people. In full ecological recession, and in the face of the greatest national and international crisis that climate change is, the budget that the government and the parties that support it present to us, and which does not integrate NAP contributions, continues to favour highly polluting industries that negatively impact on the health of all Portuguese and the environment. The protection and animal welfare, a cause which all parties in Parliament say to defend, does not find in this budget or in this debate any progress that materializes the declarations of intentions with which the political speeches on occasion adorn themselves. Nevertheless, we reject forms of unconscious opposition which reject ideas at the outset, without knowing them and discussing them, so the abstention of the NAP recognises, on the one hand, the exercise that seems fair and balanced to us of the replacement of income, the demand for revenue through indirect taxes and the investments planned for some strategic sectors, but on the other hand, it is a position that wishes to see the environment at the heart of political debate. Without truly ecological measures, without political and social positions that motivate markets and businesses to adapt to the new requirements of the historic Paris Climate Change Agreement, we will not be able to move to a new model of society, truly committed to the preservation of all forms of life. We need to expand our visions beyond today and tomorrow. We encourage innovation and the application of technology to increasingly ambitious objectives to stop global warming, before it becomes catastrophic for all as a species. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Parliamentary leaders, ladies and gentlemen. Leaders Party: Let's not be wrong, political leaders are followers and markets are also followers! When there are changes in consciousness and people change their habits, their preferences, their perspectives on priority investments, when people cooperate to share information and, above all, question the status quo, political leaders and markets are forced to follow. The NAP will continue on an open path of dialogue for this change of paradigm and collective awareness, proposing possible bold but concrete and tangible measures. We can leave ideological barriers at the Commission's door, for a Budget in favour of higher targets.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u300	I now have the floor, also for the closing speech, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite not being pleased with all the banks, the essential lines of this State Budget identify themselves with the way started in the State Budget for 2016, i.e. with the replacement of family rights and incomes. He therefore deserves the sympathy of The Greens. And, as this Budget restores rights and income, it is not strange, perhaps so, that PSD and CDS-PP vote against. Inhabitants who were guiding the budgets based on wage cuts, cuts in reforms and pensions, precariousness, unemployment, retrocession of rights, insistence on the tax burden on labour incomes, disrespect for the Constitution, interference in the autonomy of local power and a constant weakening of the social state, PSD and CDS-PP do not now hide the inconvenience because, finally, they began to realize that there were alternatives to policies that, for four years, put the Portuguese bread and water, without solving any of the country's problems. After four long and painful years, after four Budgets where the discussion focused on how much more rights and income the PSD/CDS-PP Government would withdraw from the Portuguese, we continued on the way to focus the discussion on what will be the size of people's income and rights replacement. As we have already said, and without devaluation of the positive elements of this Budget, the Greens believe that there are conditions to go further, therefore waiting that, in the field of expertise, one can walk in this direction, in order to strengthen the social component but also in order to strengthen the environmental objectives. And in this regard, we will have to register the Government's openness to two of the proposals which the Greens want to present in the field of expertise. One relates to the creation of a deduction to the collection, based on IRS, for sustainable mobility. This is a proposal to create incentives or incentives for the use of public transport, as a way not only to ensure people's mobility, but also to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and therefore to combat climate change. The other proposal has to do with the necessary strengthening of the means for the conservation of nature, which has come to be the poor relative, or, worse, the distant neighbour of the various Budgets, despite the importance of nature conservation. These are just two of the proposals that the Greens want to put forward to improve the speciality document, because, in our view, it is still possible to go further. On the other hand, and continuing to value the end of the closing cycle of railway lines that the Government has assumed, we believe it is necessary to ensure an efficient, comfortable public transport network and at socially fair prices. A network that is able to respond to the needs of the population, to the environmental and energy challenges, which contributes to the development of the country, in particular to combat regional asymmetries, and which is a real foundation for combating greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change. And in this important response, rail transport, due to its characteristics, will have to play a structural role. For this reason, we hope that the Government will look at the state of degradation in which the circulating material is found on the Cascais Line or the situation of the Lousan Ramal or the fact that vast areas of the interior continue with little investment in terms of rail, territories in which there are real potentials to promote local development but also to contribute to national development and which are being wasted due to the isolation in which they are located. It is therefore necessary to invest more in the railway. Therefore, the Greens will continue to fight, channel their efforts and march. Even today, while we are discussing the State Budget here, The Greens are marching between Portalegre and Elvas for the return of the train on the East Line. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this, we know, is not the Green Budget, it is the Government of the Socialist Party's Budget, a Budget which, in our view, could go further, because it is still far from necessary. But it is also a budget conditioned by constraints, especially external, from the beginning of the public debt, whose renegotiation, from our point of view, continues on the agenda because it also continues to suffocate the country and compromise its development. Nevertheless, it is a Budget that seeks to respond to some of the most urgent problems in Portuguese. It is a Budget which does not raise any reservations from the point of view of its conformity with the Constitution and which places a brake on unacceptable interference in the autonomy of local democratic power. As the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities concluded in its opinion on this Budget, and I am going to quote: « It is positive that the set of rules that apply or strengthen, in multiple situations, the financial and administrative autonomy that has been successively and aggravated, withdrawn from the municipalities in the years prior to 2016. » It is not The Greens who say so, it is the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. Finally, it is a Budget that calls on us to continue to work responsibly, in order to improve and seek even more social justice, to improve people's quality of life and to look at our natural resources with eyes to see. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u302	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: during this debate on the State Budget for 2017, the CFP has made clear its appreciation of the proposal put forward by the Government, of concerns about the constraints and constraints that prevent the response to the country's structural problems, of the appreciation that must be made of the measures that continue the path of the replacement of rights and incomes, despite the shortcomings and limitations they entail. This budget has as its background the disastrous consequences of decades of right-wing policy—in particular in employment, national production, public services and the social functions of the State—of external dependence and limitations on national sovereignty, aggravated in the years of the CFP and the aggression pact. The struggle of workers and populations and the decisive action and intervention of the CFP made it possible to pave the way for the interruption of the forced movement of exploitation and impoverishment that the PSD/CDS-PP government had imposed on the Portuguese, removing him from power. A year has gone by, it should be recalled that the failure of that 10-day government has remembered the fact that the Council of Ministers has in the agenda the continuation of cuts, the freezing of income and the rights of employees of the Public Administration, in addition to the threat of cuts of EUR 600 million in reforms and pensions and social support.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u304	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u305	Maybe they've changed. Insufferable hypocrisy of the PSD and the CDS-PP who came here today hit with their hands on the chest in relation to the increases in reforms and the need for the end of the overtax. Insufficient contradiction of the PSD and the CDS-PP that, in the context of the new phase of national political life, they said that everything was being given to everyone and now they say that after all austerity continues. Never telling what they're coming to, we all know what the PSD/CDS-PP government has done. Nobody knows what the PSD wants. The CDS-PP makes a bad effort to get rid of the disaster and its responsibility in the recent past. Neither does the PSD, persisting in the idea that it is necessary to go back, in the times of the « endure, endure», in which week yes, week but it was more a cut, unfair measure, privatization, manufacturing poor, forced and unemployed migrants or workers with precarious links. They pretend that they were forced to infernify the lives of millions of Portuguese people when, in fact, they made choices that have not yet been abandoned. The positive measures for workers and the people that took place during 2016 were only possible to adopt because PDS and CDS-PP were removed from the Government, because the new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic has allowed positive steps to be taken in the replacement, defense and conquest of rights by workers and the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u307	Yes, these are insufficient and limited policy measures and options in view of the size and depth of the country's structural problems. But for the CFP, everything that fights exploitation, injustice, impoverishment and contributes to a better life for workers and the people will always have our support, our contribution and our proposal. [[PCP applause.]] For the CFP, the proposal for a State Budget we are discussing here falls short of the country's needs and possibilities, as a result of the options of the PS and its Government not to address the interests of the monopoly groups and the constraints arising from the submission to the euro and the European Union. Whether by refusing tax taxation to large capital, either by not promoting an effective process of revision of public-private partnerships, either by the fiscal consolidation strategy that is assumed, or by maintaining an unbearable weight of debt interest, which limits and conditions the country's options, this proposal for the State Budget does not respond to fundamental issues such as the increase in wages and the value of the careers of employees of the Public Administration, the strengthening of public investment and the necessary economic growth, withdrawing it from the swamp where it fell since the euro banknotes began to circulate in Portugal. It is, however, a Budget which, in addition to not taking up options that have marked the country in the black years of the PSD Government / CDS-PP, consolidates many of the measures that have been adopted during this year of 2016 and continues, although beyond what we think is possible, a course of replacement and conquest of rights, which has included the initiative or contribution of the CFP, such as the extension of the freeness of school textbooks to about 370,000 children of 1. the basic education cycle, the strengthening of the School Social Action, the thawing of the indexing of social support, which will result in the increase of various social benefits, or support for the long-term unemployed. We can say that this is a Budget that does not go back but does not go as far as the size of the country's problems requires. The CFP has brought to this debate a number of issues on which it is still necessary to continue the discussion to find more suitable solutions, contradicting negative aspects and improving what already has a positive meaning. The response to the problems of employees of the Public Administration and the business public sector is one of the issues that, for the CFP, is of particular importance regarding the overall assessment of the State budget. Those who care about workers and defend their rights cannot be satisfied with the response given in this Budget, but they cannot devalue any of the positive measures that it contains or abandon the struggle for them to go further. The same concern arises with regard to pensions. It is necessary to continue the discussion on the improvement of the budget proposal. The option to increase pensions is correct and corresponds to a prolonged struggle, in which the PCP insisted for years. The proposal presented is positive, as it reflects this option to increase pensions, to ensure an increase above the value of inflation, to ensure that the increase also includes pensions corresponding to contributing careers, because the contribution system of social security is also valued. The budget proposal does not fully correspond to the proposal presented by the CFP. So we are going to hit us so that the increase of €10 is extended, in particular, also to minimum pensions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u308	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have also brought to this debate the prospect of moving forward, in the discussion on the subject, with other proposals for reducing electricity and gas charges, for reviewing deductions from education costs, within IRS, for hiring operational assistants and other workers in schools, health centres, hospitals, transport companies — where their lack results in difficulties in the operation of services — to combat precariousness in public services and businesses, to reduce the special payment on account to €850 or to tax in a fairer way large capital and economic groups. The proposal for a State Budget is not the one that the country needs, it opens the possibility, that it should not be underestimated or wasted, to rest and conquer rights. The common objective of the CFP's favourable vote is to enable intervention in the field of expertise. the confirmation of this perspective and the weighting of the set of implications arising, more generally, for the life of the country, will depend on the final assessment that the CFP will assume on this matter. at the same time, we associated this intervention on the State budget with action on other matters. We will insist on the increase of the national minimum wage to €600 at the beginning of next year, as we will stress the need to change the serious aspects of labour law, in particular for the elimination of the expiry of collective bargaining. Let us be struck by the public control of the bank, of course, the integration of the New Bank into the public sector at the service of the country's development. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The path that has been taken, without the release of the euro country and the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, without the renegotiation of an unsustainable public debt, without the break with the right policy, will become narrower and will tend to wear out. The structural problems that the country is experiencing call for structural responses and, in fact, demand another policy, a patriotic and left-wing policy that the CFP has been proposing to the Portuguese people. In the face of the difficulties, the limits and contradictions of the current situation, the big issue is not that of the return to the past, the return to the PSD government and the CDS. The great question for the country is to act with all the forces, with all the determination to face the external constraints and the interests of the monopoly groups, opening the way for a future Portugal. It is in this fight and in this direction that, more than anything else, the CFP is committed, reaffirming its first and main commitment to workers and the Portuguese people. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u310	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u311	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have reached the end of this debate and what we already know has been confirmed. Despite a few instances of demands or even divergences within the majority, nothing is happening and the Budget has naturally been approved in this Parliament. There is, however, Mr. Members, a point that deserves attention and will remain in the history of this debate and this Parliament: the silence of the Head of Government and the leader of the coalition of left-wings united throughout the debate. It is a more surprising silence even if we think that Antonio Costa has arrived precisely to the Prime Minister having lost the elections and that the left much likes to speak of democracy in motion as an explanation for his union. That is why it is more surprising that you have stolen from the contradiction and from the questions of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This position can only be understood, Mr Prime Minister, as a very arrogant and very little democratic attitude. [[CDS-PP applause.]] at the beginning of his consulate, Mr Prime Minister, I remember a Spanish newspaper presenting him to his readers as « António Costa, the great illusionist », which, looking at his budgets, is not a bad idea, nor is it far from the truth. What we were far from thinking, Prime Minister, was that you would take these illusionist arts so far to make yourself disappear from the debate just to appear at the end when there are no questions, when there is no debate, when there is no contradiction. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] He's a huge illusionist, Prime Minister! Considering that Parliamentary talent is not lacking, and we are willing to acknowledge it, why did you choose Mr. Minister of Finance to respond to requests for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u312	Did you surprise the CDS-PP?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u313	It would be possible to think that it did so by seeking a more technical debate, less political, more numbers, with greater financial rigour. Nothing more wrong! Yesterday's performance of the Minister for Finance in this debate was the opposite. It was a marketing essay, style « minister of propaganda, self-reliance to absolute diswill and unrealism». Let me tell you, Prime Minister, that if you were to do politics, it would have been better to have come to you who is much more political and much more effective to be than the Minister of Finance. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As much as he endeavours, he cannot, and thus propaganda has been weak, and the Minister of Finance has lost a little more of his already scarce credibility. The budget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is guaranteed, but it does not escape the critical judgment of many Portuguese people who have already realized that this is a bad budget, a failed budget and that what this Parliament deserved was a lead. It is a failed budget, of course, in relation to your own forecasts. The plan provided for a growth of 3 %, reduced to 2, 4 %, but in reality growth will be around 0, 9 %. It's a broken failure and therefore deserved a lead. In a moment's time, Mr. Prime Minister is obviously going back to speaking about the past and developing the theory that everything is going well because no tragedy has happened, not any escalation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u314	But the CDS-PP has been twisted for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u315	It is true that no tragedy has happened and that there has not yet been repeated the breakdown to which the PS led the country in 2011. Nothing happened and still good! We are not catastropheists and we sincerely hope that the Portuguese will not have to go through what the irresponsibility of the PS has condemned them in the past. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But we don't accept it, sirs. Members, the speech in which it is precisely those who had to move forward and have the courage to enforce the Memorandum to remove the country from the hole and bankruptcy in which the Socialist Party had left it the target of all criticism. We do not accept these criticisms. There was no misfortune. But does that mean, by itself, a successful government or is everything all right? Obviously not. Growth does not exist, the public debt, which you both talked about in the past as an example of failure, is almost 132 % of GDP, reaching absolutely unsustainable memories and values. The best thing to say about your results, with good will, is that we do not « pass from the cake strain». Your model has failed, the tax burden increases and austerity continues—they are obvious marks of failed governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u316	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u317	The model has failed because we all already realize that your consumer gambling theories to relaunch the economy do not work and growth does not exist. Now, where are the theorists of the recessive spiral today? This is not to mention the followers of the various parties of the majority of the renegotiation of debt! Your theses have failed. You are finally adhering to reality: welcome to reality! And knowing what is going on in France, where is the loud voice in Europe that you promised in the past? [[PCP protests.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u318	As far as taxes are concerned, we heard yesterday a confession by the Minister of Finance, which was also obvious. The Minister spoke of fiscal stability, but the revenue is based on 99, 5 % of existing taxes and new taxes are still being created. Where is the reduction of taxes that you have promised so much? If, as Brussels, by letter, the tax revenue will increase, and if, at the same time, the management sectors will receive more, the conclusion is clear : families, middle class, workers on behalf of others, and in particular those in the private sector, will pay more, in particular to pay the left and CGTP agenda. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The truth, ladies. Members, it is only in tax matters that this is the second budget of the united left that does not lower the IRS, does not lower the IRC, does not lower the IMI, does not lower the so-called VAT of electricity and gas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u319	Let's go down!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u320	Moreover, with the exception of the share of VAT on restoration, and yet it is only one plot, VAT is not low. contrary to what you said and the expectations created by management, increases the tax on oil products, increases the tax on alcohol, increases the tax on vehicles, increases the tax on local housing. Anything that moves in the economy is to tax immediately. And not content with that, they still create new taxes, especially on heritage, on sugary drinks, on ammunition or lead. As for lead, it was even a lead that this Budget needed! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Even your promise of immediate, and not progressive elimination, overtax failed and will not be fulfilled. We continue to have overtax in 2017. In conclusion, this budget adds to the enormous increase in taxes that was necessary to remove the troika new taxes that serve to pay the price of management. This is another budget of austerity, with cuts and captivations that have already led, as it was said yesterday, to failures in public services, chaos in transport, problems in hospitals and even the closure of schools. The great surprise, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, it is now that in these situations the left to the left is no longer outraged, there are, at least, no more demonstrations!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u321	Arrange you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u322	Do you, who loved to theorize about our passion for austerity, as if it were a kind of submission to radical Calvinism — who knows, of Germanic origin — what do you have to say when a citizen, who legitimately does not want to be penalized by your options and by your taxation, has as his option to live in a house without sun, without sight, just walk on foot, when he smokes or drinks, and when he does not think and when the pleasure of a sugary drink remains? This will not be Calvinism, but it is at least the description of a Trotskyist monk, Mr. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Clearly, Mr. Prime Minister will come here soon, finally, to explain to us that the majority is cohesive and that he has the absolute loyalty of his auxiliary parties, true partners of the great illusionist.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u323	We heard that last year! You are repeating yourself, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u324	If you want, I will interrupt, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares. If you have anything to say, I can interrupt.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u325	You picked up last year's speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u326	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u327	Let me just finish: Mr. Prime Minister will soon come to say that he counts with you, that he counts with the absolute loyalty of those who are today the partners of the great illusionist. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself confess some surprise. I never thought that ever so angry, so revolted, so protestant parties, so revolutionary today were so submissive and conditioned by power. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u328	We know what you want...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u329	What used to be a scandal today is a small incident that can be solved at any time. Whether the closure of a school or several fake undergraduates is a small repair and case closed! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Your outrage depends on where you sit and that has a name, it is called opportunism. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Luís Montenegro.]] It is true that the great Winston Churchill already said that frogs are usual food of politicians. But what the great Winston Churchill could not have foreseen was the ability to swallow toads of Portuguese communists and leftists in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u330	That's the life of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u331	They promise €25 increase in pensions, but at most it will be €4 — swallowed towel! They defend the poorest, but minimum pensions will have no increases — swallowed toad! The General Deposit Box can come to fire 2000 workers—medium toad swallowed! The gentlemen are swallowing frogs and we'll see, gentlemen. Members, if they do not swallow them either in terms of transparency or remuneration, the size of a bank's administration, including the General Deposit Box. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u332	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u333	I will finish, Mr. President. Let's see if they swallow them or not, because we already realize that you are prepared to swallow a toad of the size of a budget treaty or the Portuguese debt—and look at how big it is! in this chapter, it is, moreover, curious to verify that for the PCP the motto is: more taxes, more IMI, to combat all privileges, except those of the PCP, unless those who have to pay the taxes are the PCP itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u334	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u335	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are only going to participate in the discussion of the Specialty Budget and that we are going to defend a different idea: we are going to defend solutions for businesses and families. We will defend the family quotient and more minimum pensions,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... with absolute certainty, that in democracy, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not bad that it always lasts. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, standing up, and the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u336	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u337	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have recorded, as everyone has noted, that the government accepted yesterday clearly that a reduction in public debt interest needs to be negotiated.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u338	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u339	Have you lost your mind? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u340	It's an important novelty. Interest is an exorbitant cost, which drains resources that are dramatically lacking in investment and public services. Interests are also a form of parasitism: creditors lend us 3, 5 % what they pay — see well — a little more than 0 %. Combating this financial assault is therefore an essential condition to defend Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We welcome the Minister of Finance for the truth said yesterday in Parliament, the uncomfortable and often hidden truth: Portugal needs a reduction of interest, yes; we depend on this renegotiation. But this truth confronts Europe with lies. The economic lie and anti-democratic fraud; the power of the powerful, imposed on the periphery — these are the European rules, which Holland's revelation of the French Government's secret agreement with the European Commission shows crystallizingly. The information provided by France and the European Commission to the whole French process in the light of the objectives of the budget treaty was all this, according to Hollande, and I quote « a simple and simple lie accepted by all parties (... ), everyone knew that we would not meet this objective from the beginning ». The lie was well accepted, of course. on the other side of the table, on behalf of the European Commission, would be Commissioner Moscovici, the same thing that forced the Portuguese Government to bring down the State budget for 2016 one of the main measures for the increase in the available income of the poorest, the reduction of TSU for workers with wages up to 600 €. Hollande explains the rule of this game: “They knew that France would not reach 3%, but they said: ‘We prefer you to score for 3% because in this way we can deal with other countries. We will not attack you. ’ ” But when the European game is against Portugal they cease to be careful to show what it is to do: meetings and checks on tenths, hundredths and thousandths; opinions made before, during and after the Budget; indication of hundreds of millions of euros of cuts to be made; concerned releases and briefings on off Brussels. This same Pierre Moscovici must return to Lisbon for more serious recommendations and indications about our trajectory, our goals and our rigour. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, remember that it is the same Moscovici who celebrated with Holland the agreement of mere lie. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this budgetary debate is marked by the frontal shock between popular aspirations — recovery of the economy, employment, of those who have set off on the migration strike — and European blackmail about the payment of debt and the fulfilment of the budget treaty. And if it is relevant to recognise, as the Government, that debt should be reduced, it is not acceptable to expect Europe what it will not bring. The European institutions are not good people and the budgetary question will be the European issue, in this and in the next budgets. Extremeism and lies are the real existence of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u341	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u342	This year of governance of the Socialist Party confirms this. This Government takes important steps to recover rights and incomes, but all of this happens only on the shores of European blackmail and restrictions. People win some strike, breathe, persecution to poverty has been interrupted, but the field of the possibilities of our country remains mutilated by European extremism and that is why, as always, the Left Block does not abdicate on a path that frees the blackmail country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary debate calls for the basic meaning of the options in democracy, and if we have forgotten that, here was the right thing to remember in every intervention you have made. Strangely, or perhaps not, on the right, in all this debate, no new idea was heard to respond to the needs of the country. The right appeared interested only in reminding people how relieved they are by now having the right in the opposition. at the same time, the PSD accuses the Budget of giving too much and too little to public officials; of cutting too much and too little on taxes; and if the novelty is that the PSD may this time present proposals in the specialty, we only hear proposals from the past. Maria Luís Albuquerque, who promised such a refund of the IRS supertax, which never happened, now says nothing about the IRS and wants to cut taxes on the profits of large companies. Steps Coelho reaffirmed in recent days that the priority is to reform social security, in case someone has forgotten the proposal to cut 600 million euros per year in pensions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u343	The CDS, which frozen more than one million pensions below the minimum wage, now says that the biggest increase in pensions in the decade is short and wants to increase more pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u344	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u345	But Mota Soares says how : cutting in the support of the disease. You heard well, the CDS target is now the patients. Strange? of the party that increased pensions by cutting the solidarity complement for the elderly, nothing is strange. [[Congratulations from BE.]] A guarantee we leave you: the increase in pensions provided for in the Budget is not what the Left Block would do, but it is a real increase to more than 80 % of pensioners and is not paid with cuts in any social benefit. on the contrary, they increase the social benefits that respond to the most fragile, as it could not cease to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u346	That's why they're less receiving!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u347	The right, in this debate, did not actually show more than the shame of its own project. They want to cut pensions, but promise increases; they want to cut transport companies, but to protest against the degradation of transport; they want less refund of the overtax, but they denounce the delay in the end of the overtax. PSD and CDS, in fact, don't know what they want, they just know they want more austerity. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It has already been realized that the debate, in the specialty, of this Budget will be full of noise from the right to propose what I never wanted or will do, with the sole aim of creating an angle in the parliamentary majority, as if there was something left for its aspiration of power. They don't count on the Left Block for your novel. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, one year ago the Left Block and the Socialist Party, as well as the CFP and the Greens, were in the last week of intense negotiation to transform a majority of votes, of wills and of expectation, into a change in political agreement that would realize this change, that hope. The President of the Republic was Cavaco Silva, who insisted on the formation of a PSD / CDS government, refusing to see what was in sight: the right had lost the majority. And so Steps Rabbit gave itself to the inglory effort to form a new PSD/CDS government, which would be the shortest ever and would present to the country on November 10 with an old troika program: labor taxes, maintenance of cuts and deepening of others, liberalization and privatization, precariousness. We did what was necessary at that time: we found the possible and necessary convergences for a programme that would stop the impoverishment of the country. Today, when we remember where we were a year ago, we know how it was worth it. I said here, at the time, that "the majority solution to prevent impoverishment does not just lie in the distance from the right, which would no longer be a small one. It is based on concrete commitments to reconstitute labour rights, recover wages and pensions, protect the social state, stop privatization'. This route leads us to a second budget of the State for the recovery of income and dignity. Reposition of holidays, claiming equal rights, respect for women's choices, increasing the national minimum wage, ending unconstitutional cuts, end of the IRS overtax, defense of public school, replacement of a social welfare network and combating poverty — so much way done! There's so much to do, but no one can deny that much path. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the second budget which restores income, fulfilling our commitment to the country. A constitutional budget and, for the first time in five years, without any amending budget through the medium. Whoever lives on his work, who has worked all his life is respected for the choices of this Budget. Full salaries, end of IRS overtax, strengthening and expanding family allowance and the biggest increase in pensions in the decade. No less important for the Left Block, this Budget is accompanied by a commitment to increase the national minimum wage and to combat precariousness. We started working on this Budget at the time we finished the Budget for 2016. The working groups between Government, Socialist Party and Left Block raised problems and sought solutions. We have reached a number of agreements that were announced in time — housing, precariousness, fiscal policy, energy and so many others — because, for many months, we have prepared the details of the State budget. It was an ant work, detailed work, because only then can we have results.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u348	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member, that you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u349	I conclude, Mr. President. Today we know that this Budget is better because we worked together, and there is no one in the country who does not know that if this Budget were one party, an absolute majority, many of the achievements would not have been possible. The million votes to the left of the Socialist Party, this maximum requirement that was felt in the October 2015 elections, knows that it has results of its commitment here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u350	You really have to conclude, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u351	I conclude, Mr. President. There is a need for new impetus in fiscal policy, for greater justice, for the investment needed to qualify public services and for an investment in a new strategy that combats external dependence and global warming and creates jobs, which is what the country needs most. The budgetary debate will continue and call for the background of our options. in the Block of Left we do not abdicate on a path that frees the country from blackmail and we will at every moment be the guarantee that this Budget recovers income and recovers dignity. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u352	I now give the floor to Mr Carlos César of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We shall then vote on the proposals of the Government of the Great Options of the Plan and State Budget for 2017. As the Budget is a fundamental instrument of government policy, everyone is called upon to contribute and all will be responsible for its compliance. the availability of the PS Parliamentary Group to accept proposals, both from the parties with parliamentary seats and from the social partners, which improve their content, ensure their balance and respect their essential guidelines. Like the State budget for the current year, it is a proposal that calls on and involves the parties that supported the government's investment, paying attention to its differences and sensitivities. This diversity has been precisely a factor in valuing options and government guidance and at the same time a continuous demonstration that it is possible to build and maintain a government alternative with sovereign proof of stability, benefits and sense of responsibility. This experience, in fact, has provided a beneficial and constructive political scrutiny of government action. A experience that contrasts with such negative and destructive oppositions, developed by the PSD and the CDS, now stimulated by fratricidal competition between the two parties and by differences within the greater party of the opposition, differences that question their radical orientation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also a Budget for Change, a Budget that helps families, that does not forget their young and old, that helps businesses, that complies with the laws of regional and local finance and that is committed to defending the autonomy of the country, the competitiveness of their economy and the sustainability of public systems, such as social security, and the pursuit of the rights and interests of Portuguese. That is what we are interested in, that is what moves us: the good of the Portuguese, the success of Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The discussion that has occupied us, in recent days, around the proposal for a State Budget, has shown a repeat behaviour of the opposition: or, above all, it says almost nothing, or, over nothing, it is capable of saying almost everything. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's against, you know, you know it has to be, but you don't know why! It's important to talk, you know, but you don't know why! That is why, in the debate, PSD and CDS look for the foam and for it stay, precisely because they can't swim. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They look at the Budget and look more at the captivating of money than at the budget appropriations, because their preference is to talk about what is not known and not what is intended or intended to be done. They, the ones who have captured the most money in the past and those who have failed the most, without criteria and without regard to the consequences! Anything serves the opposition not to speak of what really matters to the country: the order by which the rulers intervene in this debate; the time of delivery of the Budget in Parliament or of the delivery of maps; any small dissonance or triviality. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Even in more focused matters, they prefer to talk about the salaries of administrators than about the situation in which they left the bank and the extraordinary budgetary effort that we have to do to recover it because of previous delays and omissions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is good for them not to talk about what matters: the policies that condition the lives of the Portuguese and, above all, the positive results that have been achieved — yes, the positive results! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Over the course of this year, Portuguese families have seen their income increase, through wages, through tax decriminalization of work and improved social benefits. The confidence indicators of the INE (National Institute of Statistics) are clear. The economic climate shows almost double the value compared to the date of the government's possession. The confidence indicator is four times higher in the manufacturing industry, eighteen times higher in trade and has reached the best value since August 2009 in construction and public works. The advanced indicators of economic activity, both from Banco de Portugal and from OECD, point to the trend towards improving our economy. Portugal's external image successfully resisted the concerted attack of internal and external party forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The financial rating agencies note that Portugal "seems to be on the right track" and emphasises the "implementation of prudent budgetary policies". The international bank speaks of "good news" about the Portuguese economy and, despite the repeatedly aggressive comments of the lamentable German finance minister, Portugal has had one of its best debt auctions this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the first half of 2016, there was an increase in foreign investment in almost all sectors, compared with the same period of 2015. Portugal is the fourth country with the greatest increase in sleeping in the hotel house. Exports of goods and services are rising significantly. Private business investment increased, nominally, 15% in the first half. Yes, Portugal has improved. Yes, it improved with the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the Greens Ecological Party by BE and the CFP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The opposition knows that reality does not help it; nevertheless, between recidivism in denial and intelligence in finding, the opposition simply opts for vice. It once again questions the budgetary goals, as if it had credibility to do so. This is a Budget that guarantees stability, predictability, constitutional compliance and also rigour in public accounts. instead, the spillover of these indicators was a constant in all fiscal years of the previous government. The PSD/CDS Government was, in fact, the Government of the Second Republic which, at the budgetary level, continued and persistently denied itself. How can the PSD and CDS thus talk about the public deficit when they failed in more than EUR 2000 million in 2012, in EUR 750 million in 2013, in EUR 5600 million in 2014, and in EUR 2900 million in 2015? Oh, my God! How can PSD and CDS question the value of the public deficit achieved this year — the lowest in the last 42 years — and that its former Minister of Finance was committed to being « mathematically impossible », and the leader of the PSD « inexhaustible », when not only will it be possible as small as it will be in the coming year 2017 and recognized as such by the European institutions? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] How can PSD and CDS talk about public debt, when they always fail their forecasts? Oh, my God! They failed at more 15.7 percentage points, right in the first year of their government, and at more 5.3 percentage points, in 2015! How can PSD and CDS question the rate of recovery that this Budget seeks for the services of the Public Administration, the administration of justice or education, if, when they were in government, they have reduced to more than 70 000 civil servants, have closed or degraded more than 40 courts and fired more than 30,000 teachers? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] How can the PSD and CDS deal with the degradation of the situation of employers and job seekers, when the number of insolvencys this year is the lowest of the last four years, and we have, despite the increase in the active population, the lowest unemployment rate of the last eight years, more employed, less discouraged, more full-time employment and less precarious employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, what do you talk about this PSD and this CDS? What country are they talking about? There is no doubt: not only have they not yet become accustomed to their condition of opposition, as they still think they live in the country that they have demoralized and impoverished! The government has changed. Portugal is changing for the better! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the moderate improvement of the Portuguese macroeconomic scenario, much of the external indicators and factors that cross with the reading of our national reality are, at various levels, uncertain and or disturbing. These uncertainties are rooted in the progression of poverty and inequality worldwide, generating growing phenomena of instability and intolerance. Portugal is one of the Member States of the European Union where income distribution is more unequal and has been worsened in recent years. That is why we should not be confronted with policies that keep the lowest incomes, and that is what the government has sought and will continue to do in the implementation of the budget policy next year. Policies to mitigate social inequalities and their consequences must be a priority, primarily worked on economic, educational, cultural, territorial and citizen policies, in a multisectoral dimension that goes beyond purely redistributive or social relief policies. This is the desired dimension of the National Reform Programme, which represents a commitment to the qualification of Portuguese, the promotion of dynamism, confidence and innovation in the Portuguese economy, the protection of the environment, the modernization of the state and the local, regional and citizen initiative. I am opening here a parenthesis on the issue of decentralization, which is associated with the demographic crisis that we are going through. The territory is, I said, the strategic asset-base. This value depends, in all cases, on the use of human and endogenous resources, on synergies, on the application of own and Community funds, on the quality of the decision. I am convinced that a new state reordinating momentum, which values the supra-municipal and regional dimensions, should give added effectiveness to new and necessary public policies with impact on the territory, whether in the areas of knowledge, birth, competitiveness of companies, the value of heritage or the management of resources on land or sea. It is known that the UN projections for the world population point to Portugal as the country of the euro area with worse indexes, and it is expected that the Portuguese population will decrease by 30% in the next 85 years. Still this week, INE has confirmed that between 2010 and 2015 there has been a decrease of 134 000 young people and 260 000 people of active age: the worst numbers ever! The demographic issue should therefore be, together with economic growth, education and training, the most decisive strategic challenge we face. I am convinced that this challenge will not be successfully overcome without effective decentralization, and I hope, Prime Minister, that this reforming dimension of the State organization is not neglected, nor is it detrimental to its entrepreneurial dimension throughout the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am about to finish. « Morality is a private convention; decency is a public matter. » — wrote Marguerite Yourcenar in Memoirs of Adriano. We have heard in these debates that the PSD and the CDS criticise what they have designated as the lack of social scope of budgetary policy. The moral assessment of this order is something that we leave to the right between ourselves and the confessionary, but the content of such deduction is from the forum of public indecency. The Portuguese, from children without family allowances to the elderly without supportive supplements, do not forget what they suffered at the hands of the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] As much as we still have to do, the Portuguese do not forget that they are now better than they were and we do not forget that we have an obligation to end the suffering and discouragement in which they have left them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u354	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u355	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are good reasons for being inconformed, good reasons for improving and good reasons for trusting. That is, there are good reasons for us to continue on the chosen path. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u356	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The PSD will vote against the proposal for a State budget submitted by this Government. at the end of this debate, it is appropriate to start with the principle that we should go directly to the result that we wanted it to be the vote and say why this budget deserves, or should deserve, the lead of Parliament. First of all, it is important to know that this is the second budgetary year that the Government is presenting to Parliament, which has taken place since the government has taken possession of it, therefore knowing what the starting point was. I know that many elements of the so-called 'after-truth' are used today and that extraordinary elements are repeated, so as not to say hallucinations, such as those we have often heard in this House. [[PS laughter.]] For this reason, and for there to be no disagreement as to the numbers to be used, I will only refer to those in the budget report presented by the Government, as well as the maps that you have added. Where did we leave, then? We started a deficit of 2, 98 % in 2015 without Banif effect, as it is in the report. I am opening an exception only to say that the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support ( UTAO) added on this value that the deficit without extraordinary measures in 2015 will have been 3 %, and we know that UTAO is accessing the government's own databases. The economic growth recorded in 2015 was 1, 6 %. This growth involved a positive effect, which was transmitted for the current fiscal year, of at least 0, 3 %. The Government has valued it in higher value in the previous budget report. After the data from the last quarter of 2015 and what the INE itself ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ) announced as additional growth, it will be at least 0, 3 % this positive effect from 2015 to 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u358	It's the opposite! It's negative!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u359	The public debt reached the level of 129 %. It had been 130, 6 % in 2014. When we looked a little more carefully at the composition of this growth, we learned what had happened. Unemployment had reached a value of 12, 4 %, a significant fall not only by comparison with 2011, of course, and with 2013, when the crisis reached its maximum point but also — an important point vis-à-vis the previous year — of reduction. Employment was rising 1, 4 %; investment, 4, 5 %; private consumption, 2, 6 %; public consumption, 0, 8 %; exports, 6, 1 %— is in the budget report. I hope you don't answer the values! What did the government then, having these numbers as a starting point, present as an ambition for the country in 2016?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u360	Is Mr. Finance Minister saying no, when did you write the numbers? Oh, my God! It's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u361	Of course, I will not waste any time remembering the "Centeno Plan", which is no longer well known where to go, nor the first draft presented by the Portuguese Government to the European Commission; I am already jumping over it all. In terms of ambition, what did the government intend to do? It was proposed that the economy should grow by 1, 8 %, supported by what? on the rise of public and private investment, on the rise of private consumption leveraged by income replacement policy, setting a target for the deficit of 2, 2, % for this year and a debt level of 127, 7 %. This is not only in the 2017 budget report, it is also in the 2016 budget report. These results should be achieved, despite or, perhaps, in view of decisions that involved returning salaries more quickly, all of them only once, in public administrations, reducing working hours to 35 hours per week, aggravating the expenditure, reducing the overtax of IRS (tax on income of natural persons), reducing VAT (tax on value added) of the restoration, thus reducing the revenue. I insist: these results, involving more expenditure and less revenue, would be achieved assuming the transfer of direct taxation to indirect taxation, therefore, with the increase of indirect taxes, with meaning in the tax on petroleum products.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u362	Don't you want to slap? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u363	It seemed unrealistic, but the government always said that the alternative existed and that it would not involve a plan b, nor extraordinary measures involving any cuts in the state, nor extraordinary measures on the side of the revenue. What happened? What's going on? I know that history has not finished yet, but the provisional data that the government has already gathered for public information show, essentially, that the strategy that was designed by the government and the goals it has set were wrong or, if they want, failed. The debt, expected by the Government, will increase this year to 129, 8 %, and the growth will be far below the target that the government wanted, 1, 8 %. It was required to grow a little bit more than in 2015, but apparently it grew significantly below 2015. And why does this happen? Because the investment fell 0, 7%. Are we talking about that investment in which you remember? — the current Prime Minister, in a fortnight debate, showed several graphs explaining that we were all wrong, that the investment was growing strongly in Portugal. Don't! The Government has corrected the Prime Minister and the forecast is that the investment will end the year falling 0, 7%. [[PSD applause.]] Exports, expected by the government, will grow half as they grew last year, employment will grow less than in 2015, low unemployment than in 2015 and public and private consumption is below 2015 values. Also with regard to the implementation of the 2016 budget, which Parliament approved, and in order to correct this time the Minister of Finance himself, who had said in the parliamentary committee that the implementation was, and I quote, « totally in line with the Budget, either on the side of the revenue or on the side of the expenditure», show the government's maps that there is a considerable deviation from the revenue side, in particular from the tax revenue that the Government expects until the end of this year, accompanied by this deviation from the revenue side of an identical deviation from the expenditure side it has to accommodate. Of course, there are no miracles. There are no miracles. Today, it is known that compliance with the deficit below 3 % may occur only with extraordinary revenues approved by the Government—see the Special Programme for the Reduction of State Allowance and the revaluation of assets, which will have medium and long-term costs for the collection of taxes at the head of IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) to the State — with a strong fall, I will never see the planned public investment, but also of the investment carried out in the previous year, which included a miserable execution of Portugal 2020, and with the announcement of permanent seizures in an unpublished process, it is true, in the country. I am most pleased to inform the Prime Minister that in all the governments to which I chaired, in the four years of the Government which I chaired when there were seizures, never the seizures that were made represent more than budgetary control instruments to ensure that the ministries were within their budgetary limits. All capitulations were released until the end of the budget year! The capitulations have never ceased to be released in relation to the budget forecast! [[PSD applause.]] But for the first time, permanent captives have been announced and with this — we understand — the debt to suppliers increases, pushes itself with the belly, pretends that everything is right, blames itself for anything that didn't fall into these first three categories and, above all, there is an order: don't spend, it costs whatever. Do not spend and endure — to endure until the end of the year, to endure as much as possible, to earn time and then to see. It is clear that in order to achieve the goals, the Government must adopt extraordinary measures, but it cannot, nor can its majority, explain why it does so extraordinaryly in times of normality. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Let it be clear, very clear: we would much prefer that the government achieve the goal of the deficit and that, therefore, the majority will meet the reduction of the deficit, because this is good for the whole country. But no, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no miracle here. There is no miracle here! They do so in a way that they have always fought, with a difference: we are actually able to honor the social state, but you are degrading the social state, the public services and the social expenditure of the State. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Since the Prime Minister will speak next, he will be able to clarify us and answer some questions. Where is the public expenditure reassessment and review programme that enables permanent savings to be identified? What are they? The capitulations that will be maintained by the end of the year affect what? We already know that they don't affect this or that. in the time of Eng.o Socrates we also knew what was not in the Memorandum of Understanding. But you'd better tell them where these captivations are. Have the courage, at least, to take the measures they take for the country! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In 2017 and subsequent years, what does the government propose? in budgetary policy, more or less of the same. More extraordinary measures, Banco de Portugal dividends, BPP guarantee to circumvent consolidation efforts, new taxes to replace the loss of revenue — we will have property owners to pay to the owners of restaurants — continuation of this transfer of direct taxes to indirect taxation, new promises of social expenditure, in particular in pensions, distributed evidently with electoral rigour but with gross social injustice. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Then, a new promise on overtax, more permanent captivating — if we join the two years, we will be very close to EUR 1 billion of permanent cuts in public expenditure, so the government must explain on a matter of transparency — deficits without structural improvement and with a promise of temporary reduction. As for the economy, it is a little better than what is expected for this year: a growth of 1, 2 % — we will see if it will be! — but in any case it is a lower growth than 2015. It seems frustrating! Are they going for the second fiscal year with an extraordinary strategy and cannot at least promise the country to make the economy grow as much as the PSD and CDS government did in 2015? Oh, my God! Sounds bad, Dr. Costa! It looks bad! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But, of course, we're just starting, we're still just in the field of forecasts. Half a year ago the government predicted an increase of 1, 8 % for this year, which corrected to 1, 2 %, and now predicts a growth of 1, 5 % for the next year. I admit that it takes at least so long to say that it will not correct the macroeconomic scenarios because they are extremely credible. Aren't you, Minister of Finance, very credible? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In other words, there is no economic strategy, and that is the most important element of this discussion. The most important element is not the Budget, it is not the deficit, but, yes, the following: after the country has had the need, because of a socialist government, to make an external rescue and to go through a painful adjustment programme for the whole country, the more the Government of the Left can say is that it does not have a strategy to make the economy grow without the need for permanent cuts and without the need for extraordinary measures? Oh, my God! So where's the alternative strategy? There isn't! There isn't! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] What did the country need to do? It needed to solve the main elements of economic fragility that evidence: attract investment, attract even investment, preferably external direct investment because domestic capital is scarce; boost growth and employment, and we are stagnant; still take advantage of the remaining opportunities of the ECB's monetary policy. There is inflation at the glance and the more it looks at Europe, the faster the cheap interest policy goes away. When he leaves, we'll get drowned. [[PS protests.]] What is more, it is very important to remind the government that it may not be worth waiting for any vatcination. No, today we are paying more than EUR 350 million in interest charges for public debt because public debt interest has worsened in Portugal, given the policy of this government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, we need, once again, to build confidence for the future, and that is why we need to ensure the sustainability of social security, which is not guaranteed, Mr Minister! , and we need to have a strategy, which the left have, so that the country can be more competitive, more open, more innovative, more fair, more demanding, with more qualifications, without popes in globalisation and without extremism against the European Union, because it is not threatening our partners that we will grow more, nor be happier, Mrs Catarina Martins, number two of this majority. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u364	It was the first person you referred to!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u365	This requires a reformist policy, Mr President, that this majority does not have. The Government and its majority are paralysed between the counter-reforms that have begun and the denial of the need to have a new reformist breath for Portugal. And they are stuck in the past, as has been seen in this debate. It was not the government of the last four years, it was not this almost rude form and, no doubt, even arrogant, as it happens in any debate in which they resolve to provoke, insinuate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u366	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u367	... challenging others to be indignant if such are the enormities that can say with a disparate air and, sometimes even seriously, we would be invited to judge, Mr. President, who do so only to hide their empty hand, full of nothing, that they have to offer to the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u368	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u369	In conclusion, Mr President, saying that Mr Prime Minister will now have an opportunity — not to let it escape, Dr. António Costa — to clarify once again whether or not he will renegotiate the interest on debt in Brussels so that the matter will be clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u370	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the PSD will submit proposals not for budgetary merceries but in order to be able to present to the Government and its majority conditions to resume the reformist momentum in Portugal. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u372	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u373	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, Government colleagues : There is more life beyond the Budget,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... but the Budget is part of life and that is why the first priority of this Budget is to improve the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] First, by reducing the tax burden for all and for all for the second consecutive year, and by reducing, above all, taxation on wages and pensions, concluding in 2017 the elimination of the IRS overtax on 32 % of taxpayers who still pay after, in 2016, it has already been eliminated to 68 % of taxpayers, and also by definitively terminating the extraordinary contribution of solidarity, in compliance with the Constitution, and updating the inflation rate of the IRS steps. Secondly, by improving the lives of those whom the previous government decided to make the crisis pay — from young people to pensioners. To the young families to whom they invited to emigrate and now see the family allowance with their fourth step back and with the increase of the first year extended to the children until the end of the third year of life. The freeness of school textbooks will be generalized to all 1. the cycle. We will have a labour market policy that reduces unemployment, combats precariousness, continues to update the national minimum wage and defuses collective bargaining in order to restore dignity in the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The government wants young people to have a future in Portugal because it well knows that Portugal has no future if young people emigrate and do not continue to work in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also respond to pensioners, who the previous government has punished, ensuring to all those who have pensions up to €2532 that, from January 1st, their pensions will be updated according to the Basic Social Security Law...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u374	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u375	...and extending 1. the step to all those who have pensions of €844, according to them all the purchasing power with the update of inflation, and now ensuring that 80 % of pensioners will forever see their income protected from rising inflation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u376	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u377	Finally, we expect an extraordinary increase in pensions of €10 for all pensions up to €633, i.e. for 1, 5 million people who were forgotten by the previous government, better saying, they were not forgotten, were abandoned by the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For us, pensioners are not the ‘grey plague’,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u378	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u379	... nor do we believe that the future of our children goes through the poverty of their grandparents. We believe in a decent society, a society based on solidarity between generations and prosperity shared between all Portuguese and all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is more life beyond the Budget and, therefore, this Budget is only an instrument at the service of a vision for Portugal and a medium and long-term strategy to which the National Reform Programme synthesizes in order to respond, over the next decade, to the challenge of overcoming the structural blockades that compromise the development of our country since the beginning of this century. Therefore, this State Budget is an instrument that articulates with the other instruments of implementation of the National Reform Programme: the Qualification Programme, which looks at adult education and lifelong training as fundamental to strengthening the pillar of qualifications; the Industry 4.0 programme, which invests in the innovation of the business fabric; the Simplex+ programme, which recovers a program of modernization of our State; the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, which looks and does not give up our interior; the Capitalization Programme, which invests in the capitalization of enterprises; and the National Programme for Combating Child Poverty, because this Government and this majority do not comply with a new generation of poverty reproduction in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, each of the six pillars of the National Reform Programme has a consequent translation in this State Budget. The first pillar is qualifications. It is not just a question of increasing the Ministry of Education's allocation — in fact, for the second consecutive — which increases EUR 483 million in relation to the budget of the Ministry of Education in 2015, but of applying concrete measures aimed at the qualification of Portuguese, since this year ensuring the generalization of preschool to all children up to three years, as well as ensuring investment, together with local authorities, in 96 schools that need to recover in order to improve the quality of education. in the pillar of innovation, first of all, it is envisaged to invest in the enhancement of knowledge in science, by fulfilling the contract of trust signed with universities and polytechnics, in order to ensure financial stability to higher education establishments, the rejuvenation of their teaching bodies and, above all, the fight against the precariousness of false fellows, who are dragged over decades, when they really should be hired as teachers of higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the investment in the enhancement of knowledge also goes through the replacement of the budget of the Ministry of Culture, giving priority to what is essential, which is the replacement of support for cultural creation because there is no knowledge without creating culture. On the other hand, in the innovation pillar we also have the aspect of the transfer of knowledge to the economy and therefore the wager not in the generalised decline of the IRC, as the right would like to give everything to those who do not need it, but, on the contrary, in the modification of the investment support tax system, in order to positively discriminate against companies investing in innovation, extending its incidence base and the amount of support granted. The Seed program is also a key part of the Startup Portugal programme, which aims to promote entrepreneurship in innovation, especially among the new generations. The same is said of the third pillar of the National Programme and Reforms, the one concerning the modernization of the State, because for us the real reform of the State is not the one that cuts everything in order to deprive Portuguese of essential public services, is the one that mobilizes intelligence by cutting into bureaucracy, which is not necessary, in order to invest in what is useful. That is why this budget will allow us to save more than EUR 1 million with the creation of 20 new citizen stores, enable us to save more than EUR 35 million in the coming years with the generalization of electronic notifications and, at the same time, we can extend the competences by reopening 47 previously closed courts and which we now reopen because justice is close. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The four pillars of the National Reform Programme, the value of the territory and the sea, provides that the competitiveness of ports is now strengthened with the customs VAT exemption scheme, which will exempt industries from having to pay VAT when importing raw materials, which is a help to all industrial enterprises, also improving the competitiveness of our ports and thereby strengthening our sea policy. We also look inside the country, applying a decrease of the IRC rate to 12, 5 % for companies that fix themselves and settle inside, and we look at agriculture with an investment in more than 90 000 hectares of irrigation, in order to bring to other river basins the advantages that the development of the Alqueva has already taken most of the Alentejo. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same way, we duplicate the investment in the railway, decentralize public transport to the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and recover the investment in electric mobility, investments essential to improving the quality of life in cities. The fifth pillar of the National Reform Programme, the capitalisation of companies, has here a very important first response with the tax incentive for partners to invest in the capital of companies, with a view to capitalisation and promoting the strengthening of own capital to the detriment of tax treatment that had bank financing or financing through their own partners. The sixth pillar of the National Reform Programme has to do with the eradication of poverty and the reduction of inequalities. Since 2010 the indexer of social support was frozen, which is frozen in this Budget and thus with this thawing, all social benefits will be increased. On the other hand, we want the development of the social state through the diversification of sources of financing for social security, by giving the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security the revenue from the additional to the IMI, because if we want solid social security we cannot finance it exclusively with the taxation of work. We also advance in our social state through the creation of the single disability benefit in its triple dimension: in the dimension of citizenship; in the dimension of specific assistance; and in the dimension of combating poverty of those who have less conditions to be able to cope with it. Finally, in what is the basic stone of our social state, the National Health Service, we provide for the creation of incentives for the installation of doctors in the interior, to ensure the goal of guaranteeing to more 500 000 Portuguese the family doctor who is still missing, and continuing the Continuing Care Program, where, after this year we have increased 684 beds, we will go for the year to increase 1000 beds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is therefore a Budget that is not just a 2017 Budget, it is a budget that is inserted into a vision for the country and a medium-term strategy; it is a budget consistent with our National Reform Programme in its six pillars—on the pillar of qualifications, on the pillar of innovation, on the pillar of state modernization, on the pillar of the appreciation of the territory, on the pillar of corporate capitalization, on the pillar of poverty eradication and reduction of inequalities. Yes, this is a budget serving the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this reason we come to this budgetary debate with the credibility of being, first of all, a budget that honours our commitments with the Portuguese and that honours our commitments with the four parties which have ensured the stability of the parliamentary majority in this House of the Republic. This Budget honours our commitments with the Greens Ecological Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u380	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u381	... honour our commitments with the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u382	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u383	... honour our commitments with the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u384	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u385	... and honour our commitments with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u386	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u387	That is why, by honouring the compromises with the Portuguese, with the majority of parliament and with the European Union, we are presenting today a Budget and presenting ourselves to this debate with a calm conscience. But that is not the only reason why we are presenting ourselves with increased credibility. It is that, after we had the budget implementation in 2016 and after saying that the priority of our economic policy was employment, employment, employment, we arrived here a year later today, and we can say that the unemployment rate has fallen from 12, 4 % to 10, 8 %, that today we have less than 80 000 unemployed and we have more than 90 000 jobs created. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One year later, we can say that the investment of companies increased by 7, 7 % and that foreign direct investment in manufacturing industries increased by 70 % compared to the previous year. [[PSD laughter.]] But we can say more: we have come here having eliminated the overtax to 68% of the taxpayers, having replaced the salaries of the public service, having returned the pensions, which had been cut, having restored the social income of insertion, the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the family allowance, which had been cut. We have extended the social energy tariff from 60 000 families to 700 000 families and we can even say that we have reduced the VAT of restoration, that we have reduced the working time to 35 hours in public service and that we have rejected holidays that had been cut by the previous majority. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] Although we have done all this, we can get here today, and say that we have had the lowest budget deficit of all our democracy and that we have achieved what you failed after four years of government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u388	Tell me what happened! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u389	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is obvious: yes, there was an alternative!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u390	Worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u391	The way was not the cut-off of rights, the way was not the cut-off of income, the way was not taking pensions and wages. Don't! The way is what we are going to go on, and it is what we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let me therefore say a word of thanks, first of all, of course, to the Minister of Finance and his team. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u392	Thank you to all the members of the government, because they all worked as a team with the Minister of Finance so that we could have the budgetary implementation we had and honor before all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A thanks also to the Members of Parliament and the Members of the majority who gave us confidence to approve and implement the Budget that we executed during 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thanks also to all the social partners, whose concerted efforts were essential for Portugal to have the social peace that it had throughout this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] Mr President, as I competed, I have listened carefully, from the first minute to the last minute, to the whole debate of this Budget, in hope that every optimist must always be able to find, together with the opposition, some useful contribution to improve the Budget, but the truth is that, by reaching this stage of the parliamentary debate, I could only find in The Greens, in the CFP, in the Left Block and in the PS new ideas and positive contributions to improve this Budget in the speciality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Obviously, I listened with special attention and consideration to the 20 minutes of the opposition leader. And during the 20 minutes of Dr. Steps Rabbit's intervention, I didn't hear a strategic vision, I didn't hear an idea for the country, but worse... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, listen a little. I know it was very difficult to hear him and, worse yet, they are afraid that I will repeat what he said, but I will not repeat it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the most extraordinary of Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho's speech is that, for 20 minutes, he did not speak of the people, neither of the unemployed, neither of the entrepreneurs, nor of the young, nor of the elderly. The only person who exists... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...in the speech of Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho is himself and the ghost of his government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is for these and others that the credibility of the right fades in every day that the Devil hates not to appear. The Devil is even the dream of the PSD, whose strategy of success is already only to wait for the failure of the country. The PSD direction is even the only people who would be better off if the country was worse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the credibility of the criticisms on the right is, of course, conditioned by the contradiction between what you say now and what you did when you were in government. How can they criticise a progressive elimination of overtax during 2017 when, in a single year, they have made a brutal increase in taxes that only in IRS increased the collection on taxpayers in IRS? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] How can they talk about pensions, which this year increase EUR 200 million, when over four years they cut out EUR 150 million in solidarity with the elderly, which is lacking to the poorest of the poorest, and still cut down to pensioners EUR 1200 million, which was the ESC's revenue charged to pensioners? Oh, my God! How can they talk about pensions? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, the credibility of the right also does not resist the confrontation with what they would have done if they had continued in the government, because what they promised in 2015 was that this year there would be an increase of EUR 1070 million in taxes and a cut of EUR 600 million in pensions already paid. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, if there is any doubt, the credibility of the right is measured by the way it says everything and its opposite of this Budget. Take a good look: on Monday morning they say the PS is captured by the radicalism of the PCP and the Left Block,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u393	...... but on the second afternoon, the second afternoon is the left-wing bloc and the CCP which are housed by the Socialist Party ; on Tuesday morning, on Tuesday morning, the budget of the State is electoralist, but on Tuesday afternoon afternoon afternoon afternoon the budget of the State budget is already a austerity; on Wednesday morning tomorrow morning, they want us to reduce more public spending, but on Wednesday afternoon afternoon at afternoon we complain that we have excessively reduced spending; on Thursday morning morning, they censure us because we want to increase public investment later, on Thursday afternoon afternoon afternoon afternoon afternoon, they censure us today, as Mrs Maria Luis Albuquerque today did Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, in the morning Friday morning, they accuse us of giving everything to everyone and then, on Friday afternoon afternoon at afternoon, they censure us for giving priority to those who have suffered most with the action of the previous government; on Saturday Saturday morning morning, they accuse us, on Saturday evening afternoon at Friday afternoon afternoon at evening, they blame us - by Friday afternoon at Friday afternoon the afternoon, and at evening, they accuse us to the last evening, we accuse those those who have only to the last time, we have just to the last time, and we have done and we have just a Sunday and we have a Sunday, and we have added and we have added, and we have added, and we have added, and we have added, and we have added, and we have made the increase, and we have made the increase and the increase, and the increase, and the increase, and the increase, and the increase, and the increase, they have added, and the increase, they have made the increase and the increase, and the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase, they have added; they have added; they have added; they have added; they have added; they have added; they have added; they have added, they have added; they have made the increase, they have added, they have added, they have made the increase, they have added; they have added; they have added; they have made the increase, they have added; they have added; they have made the increase, the increase, they have added; they have added; they have the increase in the increase in the increase, the increase, the increase in the increase, and the increase, and the increase, they have added, and the increase in the increase, and the increase [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a budget that makes choices. It is a Budget that wants more income and less tax burden; more investment and less poverty; more knowledge and less impoverishment; more social state and less deficit. Yes, this is a Budget that makes the right choices, your alternative is the alternative of the wrong choice and that is why ours should be pursued and yours, fortunately, will not be applied. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a budget that strengthens confidence. It strengthens confidence, first of all, because it is consistent with the strategic vision of our National Reform Programme. It gives the families confidence that they will not live in a new cut-off of their income and that they will see the incomes that have been cut off from them will continue to be restored. It gives companies confidence because it creates better and new conditions for companies to be able to invest. It gives confidence to the autonomous regions, which see the regional finance law fulfilled. It gives confidence to the autarchs, who are treated with dignity as they were not previously. It gives confidence to the social partners, because we want to implement this budget in a climate of social dialogue. It gives confidence to the European Union, because we will meet the objectives contracted, and it gives confidence to citizens above all because they see in this Budget that constitutional normality rests, because it is in the Constitution that we have to see the great commitment of democratic living in a free society like Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is, in short, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, an Budget that invests in more growth, better employment and greater equality, because this is the destiny and the future we want for our country. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u394	Before we proceed to the votes of the major options bills of the Plan for 2017 and the State Budget for 2017, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u395	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 342 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Imposing transparency duties to the administrators of the General Deposit Box and amending the Statute of the Public Manager ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, with connection to 1. the and listening to the autonomous regions, and 343 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 233 / 2008 of 2 December regulating the exercise of the right of association by the professionals of the Republican National Guard ( GNR ) ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u396	First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 223 presences, to which five are added, those of the Members. Members Jorge Machado, of the PCP, Pedro Bacelar Vasconcelos, of the PS, Pedro Pinto, Feliciano Barreiras Duarte and Fatima Ramos, of the PSD, making 228 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on Bill No 36 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2017. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on Bill No 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] [[PS applause, stand up.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, if they wish to withdraw, are in a position to do so. We are now going to proceed with a vote on the Rules of Procedure. We begin by voting No 152 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Manuel de Sampaio Pimentel ( CDS-PP, PSD and PS ), which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on November 1, he died, at the age of 46, Manuel de Sampaio Pimentel. Born in the parish of Sé, in Porto, he served and lived as an example of what he always considered to be Portuguese values: the frontality, the righteousness and the ability to work. Graduated in Law by the Catholic University, he did two graduate studies, in Taxation and in Legal-Business Sciences. He was a councilman by the CDS, in a coalition, under the presidency of Rui Rio, and returned to serve the city of Porto with Rui Moreira, as an elected councilman on the independent list. Without fear of controversy or disputes, capable of personal sacrifices by the imperative to defend and do what he believed, it was consciously challenging and controversial — all in the name of his profound and unbreakable convictions, sometimes even intransigent and stubborn but always well-intentioned. More than that, he was as absolutely loyal in his friendships as in his convictions, always putting such loyalty before his comfort, convenience or personal interest. He was a friend with whom he could always be counted, open to opinions and safe in support. The gift of a vertical character with a particularly clear sense of justice, Manuel de Sampaio Pimentel said for his dedication to others, as director of the District Centre for Social Security of Porto, in his efforts to improve his council or district, as mayor of the Municipal Chamber or as Vice-President of the CCDR-North, and thus for the firmness with which he lived his political participation, as citizen and national leader of the CDS, but above all in surrender to the public case. Manuel de Sampaio Pimentel, more than an exemplary political journey that many of us could share and witness, leaves above all, as a citizen, man of faith and values, an example and an legacy. His tenacity, his courage, his frontality, his verticality, his dedication, but also his peculiar sense of humor and his self-critical spirit, finally, his nobility of character, remain as inspiration and example. The Assembly of the Republic presents its condolences to its family and friends and to the Portuguese, to whom, and by whom, it has dedicated itself.'
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u398	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I myself and the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic associate ourselves in spite of the family and the authors of the vote. We turn to vote No 156 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Bernardino Gomes ( President of RA, PS, PSD and CDS-PP ), who will be read by Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Bernardino do Carmo Gomes, founder of the Socialist Party and one of the participants in the Conference of Bad Münstereifel, died last October 29th, at 72 years. Graduated in Political Sciences by the University of Louvaina, returned to Portugal, after 25 April, to accompany Mário Soares as his deputy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He was one of the leaders of the International Relations of the Socialist Party and organized the missions of Mário Soares and the Socialist International to Latin America, where the democratic victory in the Portuguese transition proved to be an essential catalyst for the wave of democratization. Director of the Office of Studies and Planning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 1976, chaired the Portuguese Atlantic Commission and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ). Between 1983 and 1985, he was the Chief of Staff of Prime Minister Mário Soares in the PS-PS liaison government, and had a decisive intervention in the establishment of the Luso-American Development Foundation, where he served as administrator during successive mandates. Later, he conducted research projects at the Portuguese Institute for International Relations of the New University of Lisbon and is author, with Tiago Moreira de Sá, of the book Carlucci vs Kissinger — The United States and the Portuguese Revolution. Before and after 25 April, Bernardino Gomes made decisive efforts to fight for freedom and democracy in Portugal and deserves the recognition of this Assembly of the Republic as one of the workers of Portuguese democracy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 4 November 2016, presents its heartfelt condolences to Bernardino Gomes' family and friends, paying tribute to his memory and work for democracy'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u400	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would also like, on behalf of the Bureau, to send the condolences to the family, which is, in fact, present in the galleries, and to the authors of the vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 149 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the violation of the rights of children in the Calais refugee camp ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[The Calais refugee camp has been one of the cruelest expressions over the past few months of the absence of an adequate European policy to respond to the thousands of people seeking international protection on our continent. The designation given to the field — ‘the Forest’ — shows well the conditions under which many thousands of people have lived there. Because of the persistent disagreement between several European countries about the reception of these people, Calais has become a place of hell. The French authorities decided to dismantle the camp and, according to data from the Government of Paris, some 5600 people have been taken, since Monday last week, to other refugee shelters and protection applicants, including 1500 unaccompanied children. As was the case with everyday life in the field, this resettlement deserves the most lively concerns of all who take the protection of human rights as a priority. The resettlement of many people has excluded the minimum conditions of dignity and, according to reports from non-governmental organizations on the ground, unaccompanied children are the main victims of serious human rights violations in this situation. These reports warn that 1500 unaccompanied children were housed in a container already fully packed and without the minimum living conditions and that 100 others were simply left behind, leaving without shelter and no sleeping mattresses during the field deactivation operation. Although these children have already been re-hosted, the situation cannot go without repudiation. The responsibility for these acts of human rights violations must be attributed, in the first place, to whom, disregarding the demands of respect for people so fragile — especially children not accompanied by them — insists on endless diplomatic pressure games in view of the fact that, in practice, there are real walls that rise against the recognition of the dignity of thousands of human beings. It believes that it is the responsibility of Europe itself that affirms itself in each of the unaccompanied and subjected to conditions of absolute indignity in this terrible circumstance, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns all violations of human dignity perpetrated in the field of refugees in Calais and fights for their deactivation, expressing its deep solidarity with the victims who are defenceless of this expression of a lack of a European response to welcome and respect for human rights.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u401	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u402	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u403	Mr President, it is only to inform that with regard to the vote on vote No 149 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u404	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on vote No 150 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repudiation of Wolfgang Schäuble's statements on Portugal ( BE and PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] [[Yesterday, 26 October, at a press conference in Bucharest, Romania, the German Government Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble, decided to discuss Portugal and the democratic options of the country and its government. He stated that Portugal was being ‘very successful until the new government’ and criticized the country’s political options, characterizing them as ‘a great risk’. This is not the first time that Schäuble refers critically to the political options of Parliament and the Portuguese Government. In June this year, he even stated that Portugal would have asked for a new rescue programme, statements that had finally been denied and that the President of the Portuguese Republic characterized as ‘speculations’ and ‘pressions’. Wolfgang Schäuble's statements are serious because, potentially, they adversely affect our country's European and international relations, which the German Finance Minister certainly does not ignore. They are also incomprehensible within the framework of relations between governments of equal democratic legitimacy, also due to mutual institutional and diplomatic respect. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its rejection of the offensive statements to Portugal made by the German Minister of Finance, Wolfgang Schäuble.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u405	We turn to the vote on vote No 151 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning statements by the German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble ( PSD and PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, Os Verdes and PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] [[On 26 October, the German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble made statements about the Portuguese political situation that expressed his disappointment at the change in economic policy after the formation of the current government — 'Portugal was very successful even to the new government. After the elections (...), (the new government) said that it would not respect what had been agreed by the previous government. It was in this sense that I warned our Portuguese colleague, because I told him that if he was going to take a great risk, and I would not take such a risk," he said, quoted by the Portuguese press. As part of the coordination of the Union's economic and financial policies, and in particular the euro area, the European Treaties give the Ministers of Finance the task of deciding on the objectives and implementation of the economic policy of the other Member States. The appropriate bodies for such a discussion of coordination, monitoring and supervision of the economic and financial policies of the Member States are, of course, the ECOFIN and the Eurogroup. This constituted the normal functioning of the mutual dialogue and surveillance of the Member States in which economic policy coordination is based. But apart from these instances, statements such as those made by Minister Schäuble, in those circumstances — the conduct in which he was recidivized — do not coincide with the exercise of his office. In this capacity, it is not appropriate to take those terms on the internal policy of the other Member States, as the Minister for Finance of a Portuguese Government would be inappropriate to make equivalent considerations on the internal political situation of Germany or another Member State of the European Union. Out of the scope, statements of this kind are reprehensible. They only contribute to aggravation of misunderstandings; to dig divisions; and at nothing help to clarify the dialogue or to strengthen the relationships of trust. Moreover, the Portuguese Government must use diplomatic channels to echo this protest. It is precisely on behalf of the consolidation of trust relations between all European partners that statements of this kind, and within which they have been made, are condemned. And this condemnation applies to any member of the Government, of any Member State, who makes such a decision on the internal political situation of a Member State's partner. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the statements by Minister Wolfgang Schäuble on Portugal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u406	Let us now vote on vote No 153 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rejected by the public statements of the German Minister of Finance on Portugal ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, Os Verdes and PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] [[The European Union has built its prosperity based on an area of freedom, justice and peace and a political model of tolerance, based on a set of values and principles shared by all its peoples. Today, Portugal and Germany are friendly and allied countries in this European integration project. Our bilateral relations take on increased importance within the Community. Moreover, the good understanding between our two countries, in addition to the fact that more than 100 000 Portuguese people live in Germany, is not compatible with judgments or warnings that contain the principles of mutual respect and non-interference in the internal affairs of States by representatives of friendly countries. It is in this light that the German Minister's public statements are incomprehensible, because they can mean disrespect for the Portuguese people and their efforts, as well as because they can induce a mistrust and fracture that undermines the bilateral and multilateral relationship between the two countries. The appropriate way to express opinions or criticism is done at home. And the public space should not at any time overlap with institutional contacts between governments. To reverse this practice of dialogue and consultation disturbs the very essence of our Union. Portugal and Germany historically share strong ties of genuine and mutual friendship but also a common area of European integration. And the institutional and political respect that Germany deserves from us must, of course, be matched. Relations between our States must overcome political differences. In this sense, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its disapproval of the public statements produced by the current German Minister of Finance and reaffirms its commitment to the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of foreign countries, especially of friendly countries".]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u407	For vote No 155 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The Bureau was asked to vote separately from the two points in the final part of the vote. So let us start by voting on the first point. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] [[It is therefore the Assembly of the Republic: - Expresses its protest and rejection by the intromissions, pressures and threats, that the statements of the German Minister of Finance are an example, which aim to condition decisions that only the Portuguese people and the national sovereignty bodies can take.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u408	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on the second point at the end of the vote. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It was as follows: -I consider that the refusal of threats and pressure on Portugal should be accompanied by the rejection of the mechanisms associated with it, including the budgetary treaty, economic governance and the process of the European Semester, within the framework of the euro and the European Union.]] [[The vote is as follows: Following the legislative elections of 4 October 2015 and the new phase in national political life and what they have provided, Portugal has been suffering from more recurrently unacceptable intromissions, pressures and threats, either by representatives of institutions of the European Union, by governments of some countries participating in it, by speculative financial groups — which are an example of the recent statements by the German Finance Minister. Joint introductions, pressures and threats with regard to the imposition of the continued policy of aggravating exploitation and impoverishment, the concentration of the country's wealth and submission to external interests, particularly within the framework of the euro and the European Union. The rejection of this path of decline and dependence and the demand for its reversal by the Portuguese people have found expression in the measures for the replacement of rights and incomes, a path which is urgent and necessary to continue and deepen. It is precisely this sovereign option of the Portuguese country and people that external interferences disrespect and intend to counter. Intromissions and external threats thus aim to condition the political options that only Portugal and its sovereign bodies, which only the Portuguese people, can take, by placing all patriots and democrats at the demand of their clear and firm rejection, as well as the mechanisms of constraint and conditioning associated with them within the framework of the euro and the European Union. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic: - Expresses its protest and rejection by the intromissions, pressures and threats, that the statements of the German Minister of Finance are an example, which aim to condition decisions that only the Portuguese people and the national sovereignty bodies can take. - considers that the refusal of threats and pressure on Portugal should be accompanied by the rejection of the mechanisms associated with it, including the budgetary treaty, economic governance and the process of the European Semester, within the framework of the euro and the European Union.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u409	We turn to the vote on vote No 157 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repudiation of Wolfgang Schäuble's statements on Portugal ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the PSD, the PCP, the Greens and the PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] [[On 26 October, at the Bucharest Summit, on the challenges of the European economy, the German Finance Minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, made statements on the Portuguese Government's political options. These statements, apart from inappropriate, are irresponsible and reveal an incomprehensible attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of a Member State of the European Union. Historically, relations between Portugal and Germany have been based on good understanding and cooperation between both States. The Portuguese community living in Germany exceeds 100 000 Portuguese, which, perfectly integrated, have greatly contributed to the progress of the German economy. The European construction project was built under a set of values and principles, such as solidarity, equality and respect for democratic values, which are fundamental for Europe to have lived until today the greatest period of peace in its history. These are values and principles that can never be be be be shaken or even removed, if you wish to continue with the ideal founders of this unique project that has united this old continent. The German Minister's statements at nothing contribute to this design, not so little to the good relationship between European partner countries. Institutional and political respect was thus exceeded. Portugal will remain fully committed to the construction of the European project, which has never been as imperative and demanding as it is today. In this sense, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its most vehement rejection of the statements made by the German Minister of Finance on Portugal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u410	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u411	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u412	Mr President, I should like to inform you that, with regard to the vote on votes Nos 151 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), 153 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 157 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) we shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u413	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on vote No 154 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings for the award of the 2016 Sakharov Prize ( CDS-PP, PS, PS, PAN and BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[This is the following: On October 27, the European Parliament announced the award of the Sakharov Prize in Strasbourg 2016 Nadia Murad Basee Taha and Lamiya Aji Bashar, two young Iraqis, members of the Yazidi minority, who survived the captivity of months in the hands of the terrorist organization Daesh. This is an assignment of enormous significance. Of course, because it is the appreciation of the victory of the human spirit over fundamentalism, but also because it is the recognition of the persecution and mass murder of religious and ethnic minorities, particularly in the Middle East and Africa regions. The Yazidi community, alongside the Christian community and other groups, has been brutally persecuted and massacred by Daesh since 2014, in that region. In fact, it was in August of that year that the two Yazidis were kidnapped, following a brutal massacre in the village of Kosho, near the city of Sinkar, in northern Iraq, that killed more than 80 men and cruelly kidnapped more than 300 women. Nadia Murad became the first ambassador of the United Nations Goodwill for the Dignity of the Survivors of Human Traffic. And since then, it has been an active voice in the denunciation of genocide to occur in the regions mentioned above against those minorities and in the promotion of initiatives to raise awareness of civil society and the international community about the hundreds of victims of human trafficking. Lamiya Aji Bashar, kept in captivity for more than eight months in a scenario of inhumanity and unimaginable suffering, managed to dodge, after several failed attempts, but, during his escape, was struck by the explosion of a land mine, which left her disfigured for the rest of her life. She has also been an irreprehensible activist in awakening the attention of other societies to the violent attack on religious freedom and tolerance. In this sense, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the award of the 2016 Sakharov Prize to Nadia Murad Basee Taha and Lamiya Aji Bashar and expresses the hope that it will contribute to a firm and concerted action by the international community to prevent one of the most terrible tragedies of our day.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u414	Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 539 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to London ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 540 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Commission of Inquiry on the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( Chairman of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote on a request by BE, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged, without a vote for a period of 15 days of draft resolution No 519 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regularization of false green receipts and other precarious arrangements existing at the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on Bill No 339 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 33 / 2016 of 24 August, clarifying the provisions for conducting financial, technical and legal studies on the future development of TDT ( terrestrial digital television ) ( PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will also give us some of the opinions that it is important to vote. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Central Court — Cable and Criminal Section — J2 of the District of Guards, Case No 762 / 16.3T8GRD, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs. Ángela Guerra ( PSD ) to intervene in the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u416	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote on that opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u417	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as requested by the Central Court — Criminal Section — J1 of Coimbra County, Case No 1581/12.1TACBR, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Maurício Marques ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-11-05.u418	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No word requests, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held on 24 November, at 10 a.m., for the debate, in the specialty, of the proposals of lein. 36 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2017 and 37 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2017. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 4 minutes.]]
