ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries. The agenda for today is completed by the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on the economic and social situation under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u2	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: When I presented the Government Programme in this House four months ago, I proposed a threefold design that guides this government and its political programme, namely, more growth, better employment and greater equality. As I said on that date, these three designs articulate and reinforce each other and only when they are continued simultaneously allow for a healthy and sustainable consolidation of our public finances. This triple design is fully reflected in the various strategic documents that we have presented in this House of the Republic in the last two months. First of all, in the proposal for a State Budget for 2016, a responsible budget fulfilling the commitments made in the Government Programme, as well as the international commitments of our country, which favours economic growth and job creation, which improves social protection and ensures the rigor of public accounts, reducing the value of deficit and public debt. Secondly, in the National Reform Programme 2016 - 2020, which, based on the diagnosis made by the European Commission, identifies the persistence of a set of structural imbalances in the Portuguese economy and society which are obstacles to our growth and which, in response to these blockades, presents measures to confront them in order to resume the path of growth and convergence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, in the Stability Programme 2016 - 2020, which is a realistic exercise, carried out with a significant degree of caution in relation to the macroeconomic evolution of the external and internal components of the economy and which reveals a gradual recovery of the Portuguese economy, resumed a path of convergence with the European Union, as well as a reduction of unemployment, in an increase in the active population. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: contrary to what the previous majority wanted us to believe, the improvement of the economic situation in 2015 was apparent and not real. [[PSD laughter.]] The economic data of the second half of 2015, I repeat, the economic data of the second half of 2015 gave clear signs of the exhaustion of recovery:... [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] ... an increasingly anemic economic growth (in the third quarter even stagnation, with a GDP growth of 0, 1 % ) ; exports, in clear slowdown (falling in the last three months of the year from an initial growth of 7, 1 % to a final growth of 2, 6 % ) ; the company order portfolio with significant deterioration; the declining investment, the increasingly negative climate indicators; and still a rise in the unemployment rate and slowing down the rate of reduction of the number of unemployed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of this scenario, it was urgent to change the course and the direction we proposed was to ensure a greater balance between fiscal consolidation and the promotion of economic growth and social cohesion, giving property to the reintroduction of family income and the creation of conditions for investment by companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the numbers we know are pointing out is the goodness of the adopted strategy. Despite successive attempts to threaten with black clouds and the greatest uncertainty in the world economy, this is an improvement in economic climate indicators. The confidence of entrepreneurs and consumers now reveals a widespread trend of improvement, inverting the deterioration that has been taking place. There are also positive signs of improving consumer indicators.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u3	It was good to be there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u4	Investment improves, in particular investment in machinery and equipment, but also in transport materials. Exports also give signs of some stabilization, despite the difficulties experienced by some of our trading partners. The production of consumer and investment goods industries grows more than 4 % and tourism indicators grow at a rate of two digits. The results are also fully in line with the goals we set. Withdrawing from the point-of-time effect of interest payments in February and VAT refunds, which we decided to speed up to increase the resources available to companies, the budget balance clearly improves. The primary balance, in particular, exceeds EUR 1058 million, an improvement of almost 29 % compared to the previous year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The revenue records growth levels above those provided for in the Budget for the generality of taxes, although in some cases the measures implemented have only begun to produce effects in the middle of the first quarter. Staff expenditure, although the first phase of the replacement of salaries in the Public Administration has already been recorded since 1 January, is clearly growing below the budget target, and current expenditure also shows a better behaviour than expected in the Budget, however, since 1 January, the replacement of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the social income of inclusion, the family allowance and the updating of minimum pensions. That is why, with the confidence that we are on the right track and creating the basis for sustained recovery, which we today, at the Council of Ministers, will approve the final version of the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, which is the subject of broad public discussion in the last month and has already benefited from the contributions not only from various political forces represented in this Assembly of the Republic, but also from the contributions that the social partners have made today at the meeting of the Standing Commission of the Social Dialogue. The documents that were presented to this House confirm that the agenda underlying the National Reform Programme is compatible with the fulfilment of the budgetary targets shown in the Stability Programme. But in addition to the indicators of economic activity and of budgetary implementation that we are familiar with, there are other elements that give us confidence that we are in the right direction. At the beginning of the government, we have given the highest priority to the implementation of the Community funds and we have achieved good results. By 22 April, EUR 152 million had been paid to companies, which compared to the EUR 85 million paid in the equivalent period of the QREN ( National Strategic Reference Framework ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of this acceleration of payments, the Government has already set a new target to pay EUR 450 million to companies by the end of 2016, which compares with a little more than EUR 300 million paid in a period equivalent to the launch of the QREN. But we have above all indications that companies maintain high investment intentions, demonstrating confidence in the Portuguese economy. At the beginning of April, we closed a new competition for incentives for companies for productive innovation, where the value of the investment applied for is the highest that there is memory: more than EUR 2000 million. About 1200 applicant companies plan to create 14 000 jobs and 2, 5 billion euros of exports. We therefore have a definite path and the instruments to go through it. A political programme that seeks a new development model for Portugal. A model based on knowledge and innovation, on the defence of the social state and on a new impetus for convergence with the European Union. A new model that strengthens the trust of families and businesses, a confident strategy in the future with more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u5	The order of questions is as follows: PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, PAN and PS. To put questions to you, Mr Luís Montenegro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, record that once again Mr Prime Minister does not resist talking about the past. But we, as we have said several times, have no problem with that. Does Mr. Prime Minister say that the 2015 macroeconomic results of the country were only apparent? Mr. Prime Minister, what do you mean by that? We didn't end the year 2015 with the Product growing 1, 5 %? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u7	Didn't we end the year 2015 by lowering unemployment?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u8	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u9	We did not end the year 2015 with a deficit of 2, 8 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u10	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u11	... with the exception of intervention in the financial sector Mr. Prime Minister, let's see if we understand ourselves: if the result of 2015 is apparent, being it the beginning and the foundation for 2016, why hasn't the macroeconomic scenario changed for 2016?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u13	Is it apparent or real the result of 2015, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u14	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u15	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, what I said, and I repeat, was that the initial results of 2015 were not confirmed and were apparent. The results of the second half of 2015, which I had the opportunity to signal, well demonstrate the slowdown in which we were in the second half of 2015. We were slowing down in job creation, job growth, exports... we were slowing down! The export case is exemplary. In fact, in the first quarter of 2015, exports grew by 7, 1 %, but the fact is that in the last quarter of 2015 exports grew by 2, 6 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, or you show me that 2, 6 % is more than 7, 1 % or I must conclude that the rate of export growth has slowed from the beginning to the end of the year. That's what I said, and I spoke with rigour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u16	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, what you just said smells of bad payers already. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u18	Mr. Prime Minister is trying to create a narrative to excuse any bad results of 2016 with 2015, but he was unable to counter the final results of 2015, which are the basis for having a macroeconomic scenario of 2016. Mr. Prime Minister is trying to create a narrative to excuse any bad results of 2016 with 2015, but he was unable to counter the final results of 2015, which are the basis for having a macroeconomic scenario of 2016. Mr. Prime Minister, I insist: if the results are not these, if this trend was so worrying, why does Mr. Prime Minister not change the macroeconomic scenario of 2016? If the trend was so negative, this should have a consequence, Prime Minister. Don't you think? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u19	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u20	Mr President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, will have noticed that precisely in the macroeconomic scenario that we presented in the State Budget for 2016 we have already incorporated this effect from the previous forecasts of the second half of 2015. In fact, it's not just us. Even in recent forecasts of growth prospects this year, one of the reasons invoked by the Catholic University as a more negative view of growth in 2016 is precisely the slowdown in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But really relevant is what has happened since this government began implementing the policy measures provided for in the State budget. And what we have seen, on the contrary, is that there has been an improvement in the economic climate, there has been a stabilization of exports, despite the evolution of the international economy, there has been, as the INE (National Institute of Statistics) pointed out today, a reduction in the unemployment rate and, above all, an increase in investment prospects, not only from applications to Community funds, such as investments made, in particular, in machinery, and an increase in production in the industrial sector. These, yes, are the new signs that are happening in the Portuguese economy! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u21	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u22	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I am clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u23	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u24	Mr Prime Minister said that the macroeconomic scenario in the State Budget has already met these expectations, in his negative idea. So from here forward—and that is what Mr. Prime Minister said—there is no excuse, the past does not serve as an excuse for the implementation of the State budget by 2016. That is the conclusion, Prime Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Since he spoke of Community funds, I also wanted to say that I noted that I compared the performance of this government with the first months of implementation of the QREN, therefore the other Government of the Socialist Party. The Government of Dr. António Costa has improved the implementation of the Community funds in view of the implementation of the Community funds of the Government of Eng.o Socrates. It is unfortunate that the implementation of the previous government has not improved.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u25	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u26	But that, Prime Minister, is also for registration. I didn't have that degree of comparison and, therefore, we didn't go there. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you another question. Today, there has been news of a secret annex to the Stability Programme that has already been or will be sent to Brussels. This basically confirms what the Minister of Finance said yesterday in an interview when he stated that the contingency plan was obviously studied and analysed. Mr Prime Minister, what are you hiding from Parliament and the Portuguese? What cuts are there in this secret plan in the areas of health and education? How are they going to match the announcement they made, of a decrease in the number of civil servants, with the announcement that they also made of massive hiring of teachers, doctors, nurses and assistants? Mr. Prime Minister, the « boot does not beat the partridge ». It is important that you take advantage of this debate to clarify the country. What are we talking about, Prime Minister? Since we're talking about public service, how's the 35-hour file? I'm talking about that file that was to be resolved by November, then it went down to the beginning of the year and now it looks like it was to July, the one that the Minister of Finance said had no impact, it only had an impact on our heads, but then the Minister of Health came here saying that only in the area of health, to cover 35 hours, more 2000 nurses and 1000 assistants are needed. Mr Prime Minister, how is all this happening and what truth is it that it is underlying this contingency plan that is studied and analysed, as the Minister for Finance said? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u27	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u28	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, compares what is comparable. Therefore, since I am not obsessed with your past, I compared the launch of this new Community framework with the launch of the previous Community framework. But if you want to compare the part that is the responsibility of the government that supported the part that is the responsibility of the government that I have supported, you will verify that now the QREN has won against the one that was the effort of your government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, there is no secret framework, there is no secret document, there is simply a working document, which has been sent to the Budgetary Support Technical Unit of the Assembly of the Republic, to the Council of Public Finance and to the services of the European Union, which simply discriminates, for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, all the estimated impacts and those contained in the Stability Programme. In fact, the best evidence that this document is not secret is the fact that it is available here to all of you and to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Luís Montenegro, I would like to reassure you already: no cuts are foreseen in health or education. And, because you may not read the observation notes, until I say more to you: the reduction in social benefits is due, as explained here, to the contribution of the national plan to combat performance and contribution fraud. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the honourable Member to verify that this sum of EUR 100 million, which is planned here, is not excessive, I remember that, even yesterday or yesterday, Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security revealed that only undue payments in 2015 were verified EUR 200 million. Therefore, what is foreseen here is a savings of half of what was effectively verified as undue payments during 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not even an exaggerated forecast, it is once again a prudent and realistic forecast for these goals. These are working documents and have been provided to these entities. But if I may, if there is good evidence that this budget does not hide scandalous increases in taxes or terrible cuts in social benefits, it is to see how, despite knowing this document, the Council of Public Finance and its President have not been calm about the budgetary policy of this government. Do you think Dr. Teodora Cardoso would have said what she said about our budget prospects if we predicted this increase in taxes or those cuts in social benefits? Oh, my God! No, they're not here, they're not taxing, they're not cutting social benefits! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we have is a realistic document, as you will see when you have the opportunity to read it, if you have not yet read it. I am very surprised that he made such serious statements without having had the prior care to read the document that says we hide. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u29	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u30	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, no, I have not yet read it, because you have not yet sent it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u31	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u32	I don't know if you sent him, all or part, to the newspapers,... [[PSD applause.]] ...but, finally, I have the information that's available and that's not what's available. He'll be here now, and we'll be here to check. Strange, Mr. Prime Minister, that in his words any deviation is overcome by the fight against fraud. Not that this is not important, but here we will be waiting to see if the outcome of this fight will be sufficient for any deviations. Speaking of deviations and taxes, Prime Minister, according to what the Government says in the Stability Programme, any deviations will be suppressed by additional captives - we will be here to see how they will be executed and how the government will manage this file, since the first attempt that occurred at universities and lasted for a week - and on the tax side, and the prosecutors are committed not to alter the taxes on the income of natural persons and legal persons and not to change VAT. It was the word given, which I hope will be honored by the Prime Minister in the last fortnight's debate. Mr Prime Minister, the VAT rates will not be changed. I ask you: will the cassettes of goods and services that are at the present rates be changed? Is there any change that the Government has in this additional programme on this subject? It was very important that we could know that. I put two more questions to you, and the first one is about the New Bank. The government has lowered the value of public debt in 2016 from 127, 7 %, the value of the State budget to 124, 8 %, the value of the Stability Programme — and explains this with the results of the sale of financial assets held by public administrations. I ask you directly, Prime Minister, whether or not we are talking about the sale of the New Bank and the assets of the former Bank. The other question I wanted to ask you is about the financial plan. I ask the Prime Minister if you know who said what I'm going to read: « The BPI is obviously a bank of importance to the economy, but we are not accompanying negotiations between two private shareholders. It didn't even make sense to do it." Do you know who said that? I will help you: whoever said this was his Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance. Does the Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance now correct Mr. Prime Minister? Oh, my God! Were you not following up on the negotiations? He has not yet been able to find time to answer the questions that the PSD has addressed to him. Is that why? Is it because there is no agreement between the Ministry of Finance and what Mr. Prime Minister said? Please respond, Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u34	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, first of all, I would like to clarify the following : the framework referred to is a working paper on the discrimination of measures for 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 and has nothing to do with the implementation of 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u35	It's plan b!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u36	As regards the implementation of 2016, because you should not have heard recently, I repeat what I said in my opening statement: « The primary balance, in particular, records an excess of 1058 million, an improvement of 29 %, compared to the same period of the previous year. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] 'The revenue records growth levels above those provided for in the Budget for the generality of taxes, although in some cases the measures implemented have only begun to take effect in the middle of the first quarter. Staff expenditure, although the first phase of the replacement of public administration salaries has already been recorded since 1 January, is clearly growing below the budget target..." — increased 1, 9 %, when the growth forecast was 2, 8 % — «... and the current expenditure also shows a better behaviour than that provided for in the Budget, despite the replacement, since 1 January, of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, of the social income of inclusion, of the family allowance and of the updating of minimum pensions. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, once and for all, we are calming ourselves: we are implementing the Budget and nothing in the budget execution invites us to any plan b, c, d or or any plan that you now want to invent. But there is one point on which you were right: there will indeed be an amendment to VAT. Do you know what it is? on 1 July, the VAT of the restaurant will be lowered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u37	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u38	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have learned that the only thing that will change in VAT is that of restoration — that is your word! — and we also learned that the map that will be delivered to us is not the contingency plan, it is the map for the years 2017 and beyond. The 2016 contingency plan continues to be hidden, it is secret. Mr. Prime Minister says it doesn't exist, but we'll be there. Mr Prime Minister, let me tell you that there are still many contradictions between what Mr Prime Minister and other protagonists of this majority say and what they do, because on the one hand, they want financial rigor and, on the other hand, we are already on the move, it is enough to see the budget implementation, particularly on the revenue side, specifically on the side of the VAT revenue side; on the one hand, they want more income, but on the other hand, they increase taxes, particularly indirect taxes; on the one hand, they want to guarantee the sustainability of pensions and, on the other hand, they throw social security in real estate speculation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u39	The Minister of Education finished the exams of teachers and students, but he himself, and he is available, will be examined by the unions—we are today. [[PSD applause.]] [[CDS-PP laughter.]] The Prime Minister goes to Brussels and is « Europe this...», arrives in Parliament and its coalition partners are anti-European. They hit a lot on the heritage they received from the previous government, but then they praise her in the National Reform Programme. In fact, this is the greatest of contradictions. And let me tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, your leaders, the leaders of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP, today are like the « Patroas olivias» and « Costureiras olivias», which were immortalized by the great Ivone Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u40	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u41	In fact, they are the same people, but they say different things according to the audience they have in front of them, they say different things depending on whether or not they want to pass a message. And that, Prime Minister, does not inspire confidence. This does not induce credibility gains so that we can have more investment, which, contrary to what Mr. Prime Minister said, is falling,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u42	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u43	... that you, even in the Stability Programme, provide. Mr. Prime Minister, it's time to end the contradiction. Make this act of contribution so that it is not the Portuguese who pay the penance of their irresponsibility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u44	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u45	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, with regard to 35 hours a week, I hope that Parliament will quickly approve the 35 hours a week so that they will be applied from 1 July next day, as is provided for in the Budget and how it is our desire and desire for public service workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the « we shall arrive there», I recall the following: what was your plan to? That the markets would not support the PS agreement with the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party. After all, the markets remained serene. It then went on to plan b, which the European Commission would bring down the state budget proposal for 2016. The next step was to plan c that the Budget, after the dialogue with the European Commission, would not be able to obtain a majority to approve it here in this House of the Republic. Finally, it went on to plan d, that 'no, the Budget is still going on, but they can no longer survive the presentation of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme'. Mr President, I know that you have managed to make 12 in four years, but in contingency plans you are already going into four in four months of government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u46	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u47	So, Mr. Member, stop being so anxious, because you are right, we will get there until the end of this legislature, with quietness, stability and fulfilling, step by step, what we commit to the Portuguese,... PS applause. ... that we commit ourselves to the parliamentary majority and our European goals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Take it easy, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u48	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, in 2011 the year of entry of the troika in Portugal, left our country for offshore EUR 4000 million. in the years of the troika, when the greatest sacrifices were taxed to those who live from their work in Portugal, they went out to offshore 10 billion euros. Every time the rich, the richest of the rich, decide to put money in the offshore and not pay taxes are getting something that is not yours,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u50	...for whoever lives from his work, who has his salary, who has his pension pays his taxes. A small company that is experiencing difficulties pays its taxes. Who puts money on offshore is always stealing the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u51	I've heard that much of these transfers will have to be legal. Well, maybe they are. What leads someone to put money in offshore may or may not be a crime, but it is surely tax evasion and, therefore, it is to withdraw possibilities from the country. The Left Block thinks it can't stay all the same. There is a new majority and it has to be able to produce results. We are now presenting a package of legislative measures in the Assembly of the Republic to make a search for offshore measures. The question I have for this government is whether we can count on the will of the Government and the Socialist Party for something to change, so that the theft of offshores to our country does not continue. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u53	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, thank you very much for the question. As you will recall, two important requests for legislative authorisations have already been approved in the State budget, one to extend access to automatic exchange of information and the other to establish the obligation to submit the special report on international offshore communications. Both measures have also been adopted with the votes against the PSD and the CDS, and today the Council of Ministers will approve the decree providing for precisely extending access to automatic exchange of information, which was authorized by the State budget, to be implemented during 2016. Today we will also approve a set of bilateral conventions on double taxation and tax evasion and an agreement with the United States of America regulating financial reporting between tax authorities. The Minister of Finance has, however, taken a number of important measures: firstly, the regulation of the communication of offshore payments; secondly, to extend the competence of the Unit of Large Contributors (UGC ) in order to monitor not only companies but also natural persons; and thirdly, the statistical provision of transfers such as those cited and that five years ago were hidden because disclosure was not authorised. Finally, Portugal joined an OECD group with representatives of tax inspections from several countries with a view to developing this matter, and in January we signed an OECD multilateral agreement for the sharing of tax information between more than 30 countries. That is why this is a fight in which the Bloc is not alone and in which the Bloc can count on the Portuguese Government, it is a fight against offshores because they are indeed a threat to competition, they are a threat to transparency, they are a threat to combating international organised crime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u54	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u55	Mr President, Prime Minister, record of your reply, which are taking steps that are effective. We believe, however, that we can go a little further and draw attention to the fact that the last government, in addition to always concealing data from offshore transfers, has also made an IRC reform that has allowed what is called "aggressive tax planning" of multinationals, i.e. that basically would run away with money to where they do not pay taxes. I think today anyone in Portugal can ask the question: but how many Continents or Pingo Doce are there in the Netherlands? Why won't Sonae or Jerome Martins pay more taxes in Portugal? [[All right!]] [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u56	I am sure that we have to make consistent progress here too, because we need clear changes. There is another question that I would like to put to you on this subject and which has to do with a scandal prior to that of Panama papers and which has also drawn the attention of public opinion, and well, for this problem, which is Swiss Leaks. The Left Block asked the Government for data and it was aware that there are 611 people who have fled to pay taxes in Portugal with the Swiss Leaks scheme, but the fact is that we do not have enough data to understand how much money, how and what mechanisms. We know that the crime is 2006 and that some of these crimes can already be prescribed, not acting on them, but we need to know who it was, what mechanisms it used, what exactly happened. But for that, we need to ask Switzerland for more information, we cannot leave the crime unpunished. We therefore need to know whether the government will continue to act on this issue. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u57	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u58	Mr President, Madam Member, the indication given to me by the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs is that he has already responded to the Block's request on this matter. As far as criminal investigation itself is concerned, this, as you know, only the Public Prosecutor can report or report on what he has done or is doing on these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u59	You also have the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u60	Mr President, the Prime Minister knows, as we know, that in a country where there are so many people in unemployment without support, in which there are people who have worked so many years and today have no right to reform, where everything is missing in schools and hospitals we would not forgive ourselves if we were not able to fight decisively avoidance and fiscal crime, and fighting offshore are surely a priority for the Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u61	Mr. Prime Minister, I want to ask you a question about what's wrong with public accounts, which to a large extent is the legacy of PSD and CDS. [[Representatives of PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] But there are things that really have to change, and I wanted to tell you about the New Bank. The New Bank is owned by the Resolution Fund, which, theoretically, is owned by banks, but the money there is public. It is EUR 3900 million public! We know that last year all the money that banks put into the Resolution Fund only came to pay interest, they did not pay at least the public debt that is there, we know that there are new problems in the New Bank, not only because of its perimeter is not well solved, a misresolved resolution made by the previous government, and we also know that there will be more than 700 million euros of hole in the New Bank, and that, above all, the New Bank accounts are counting on assets of more than EUR 1000 million in deferred taxes from a bank that does not even have profit, and therefore basically, the accounts are clearly exaggerated, which makes it increasingly difficult to believe in a sale of the New Bank that does not cause damage. The Left Block has a position of principle, as you know, of public control, it does not want to discuss this position in principle with you, but you want a guarantee, and we would like to hear about it, that we will not have a new BANIF or a new BPN, i.e. to sell banks to private with large losses to the State. Therefore, the guarantee we want is that the New Bank will not be sold if the sale is made with injury. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u62	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u63	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I believe that no one wants new BANIF, nor would anyone bear new gender situations. As for the New Bank, as you know, I have given a relatively invariable response over time to the questions that have been put to me here in the Assembly of the Republic. I think it was a slight bravery to have presented the New Bank resolution as a cost-free solution for taxpayers, and we have every duty to do everything we can to ensure that the New Bank solution is the one that will have less costs for taxpayers. And so right now, I don't close any doors. The first concern we had was to extend the deadline set by the European institutions for the closure of the New Bank, the deadline was August 2016 and we won one year, and this year can be very important. I know that delaying, from August 2016 onwards, is not without pain, because it implies that some restructuring measures have to be applied even without the alienation of the Bank. But there is one thing that is fundamental, we cannot precipitate any solution without showing that this is the best solution for taxpayers. Therefore, between the solution of the maintenance of public control, the solution of nationalisation, the solution of merger with another public entity, the solution of alienation or any other, we should not close it in advance, and I do not close it in advance. There is only one thing I commit to: I will never defend anything that is not the best solution for the taxpayer. And I think we should work for this solution to actually exist. I want to draw attention to the following: the early sale of the New Bank is not only penalizing the taxpayer, but also penalizing and destabilizing the financial system as a whole, because, despite being the taxpayer's money in the Stabilisation Fund as a loan, it does not fail to reflect on the balance sheets of all other banks. And, therefore, this is a matter that has to be treated with the greatest caution to protect, firstly, obviously, the taxpayer and, secondly, not less important, the stability of the financial system. Therefore, I have always recommended and insisted on the greatest caution, the study of all solutions and the non-exclusion of any solution at the beginning. This is what we must maintain and, at the moment we have to make the decision, we must evaluate the different solutions as an alternative to decide which is best for the taxpayer and for the stabilization of the financial system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u64	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u65	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, to the arguments that it gave to be bad a hasty sale, I would add another: one country that takes seriously needs to have national decision-making centres, as far as the financial system is concerned. And it is certainly not in the struggle between the Spanish or Angolan control of the bank that Portugal will defend its interests. For that, it will have to be public control. That is why keeping the New Bank in public control is so important for Portugal and our economy. And this is precisely what the Left Block defends. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we have made a course in the country that is not easy but which, I think, is recognized: we in the Block consider that the recovery of income is being done is shy, but we recognize that it exists and exists because we have made an agreement and worked for it every day, even with all the difficulties. Well, I know that the right is a little upset, that's been squeezing every day to make the country run bad, it's made cool so that there's an economic collapse, it's made cool for the apocalypse of Europe to come... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Anyway, life in the country doesn't run so bad. If PSD and CDS have gone wrong, it's not our problem! But there are difficulties certainly and we will never escape from discussing whether they are from the financial system or others. Today, I want to bring you here a subject which, for us, is particularly important and which, between 25 April and 1 May, let us say, is of the utmost importance: the fight against precariousness. There is an agreement with this majority of income recovery and the dignity of those who live from their work and, in this sense, all the fight against precariousness is important, and we are very committed to it. This fight has several measures, which need to be discussed, but at the same time serious things are happening in public institutions and I wanted to talk about them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u66	I hope it will be brief, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u67	I'll be very brief. The Higher Institute of Agronomy is sending pockets through research projects. That is, there are scholarships that are not renewed to post-doctoral pockets that are in the middle of research projects. There have been seven, eight more will go this month and the perspective is that 30 in 100 will be able to leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u68	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u69	The agreement we have is that post-doctoral scholarships may have employment contracts, not that Portugal loses researchers or that the pockets are dispensed, Prime Minister. Therefore, it is good to see what is happening at the Higher Institute of Agronomy and we need a guarantee from the Government that the fight against precariousness is for there to be employment conditions for the investigation to be done, yes, and not to be done to kill research projects or fire pockets. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u70	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have managed to solve many problems which were initially difficult, taking into account the starting point of each other. And we were surprised... [[CDS-PP protests.]] Yeah, yeah, it's management, but it works. It's a great advantage, you see! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] It's management, but it works! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] I can even add: it doesn't bother anything to be management, but it bothers you very much that it works. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] But this concrete case is not even one of those cases where the issue is difficult, because we both have the same starting point. Of course I will not replace the autonomy of the University of Lisbon itself, but I will respond to what results from the regulatory framework that we have done: firstly, we have made the autonomy of universities and higher education institutions flexible in the management of their frameworks so that they can hire those who should work on labour contracts rather than on the allocation of false scholarships. And this decision has not been made so that people who are working with scholarships become unemployed without scholarship. This measure has been taken so that those who are working with scholarship continue to work on the basis of what they are entitled to receive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u72	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u73	... which is the wage, and not simply so that scholarships for research purposes should continue to be diverted which should not be replacing wages. Therefore, this is not even one of those subjects where it is difficult to understand ourselves because we understand from this point of departure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u74	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u75	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am relieved to know that everything is going so well, I am only sorry that the Socialist Party is so afraid to put to the vote what seems to be running so well,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... that their partners say they don't want to create problems and even disagree with the documents they apparently approve and with which they so much identify themselves. What I want to ask you today, and it is not to be putting back the discussion that was held here yesterday, unfortunately without your presence,... and now we are also aware that, although we do not know it, the document exists, and still well, hidden, and if you can open it and turn it here, so that we can see it, we thank you, because, thus, we realize better, and if you can distribute it, then we thank you further. But, Prime Minister, there are questions, which have already answered partially to the PSD, which I would like them to be answered again very firmly, very clearly and in a very simple way. And there are three questions and they relate to this year and next. First, does it commit itself or not, to which there is no increase in taxes, nor to announce the increase in taxes, not for this or for the next year? Secondly, do you undertake not to announce the creation or replacement of taxes, such as the successive tax, for this year and next year?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u76	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u77	And is he finally committed to doing what has already been announced in the field of tax relief, in particular in the VAT of restoration? In other words, what has been announced will never be cancelled and will therefore be in force this year and next year. Therefore, three simple questions for a simple answer: compromise, or not compromise. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[At this moment he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u78	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, and I take advantage of you to greet him.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u79	Madam President, I would like to thank you for your question, Mrs Assumption Cristas, but I should like to say that you were expecting a little more than the echo of the question already asked by the PSD. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] But it is with pleasure that I will resume my answer to the resume of the PSD question. Madam Member, the document is not a secret document, it is a working document and it has been handed over to those who have asked for it. It is here for distribution, there are no dramas, and the only thing it does is to discriminate the aggregated values contained in the Stability Program, without any mystery, can be quiet. With regard to the questions you have raised, what we have said, and reaffirmed, are tax measures contained in the Government Programme. First of all, there will be no increase in IRS, nor will there be an increase in IRC. There will be no increase in VAT and no reorganization of VAT products in addition to VAT products...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u80	Of those who have already done!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u81	... that we were committed to and that so much opposition deserved from the CDS, which is the reduction of VAT for restoration. Yes, despite the opposition of the CDS, we will put into practice on 1 July. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for most, you know our Program, and our Program will be an efficient management of IRC in order to stimulate investment and employment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u82	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u83	... in order to improve the progressiveity of the IRS through the review of the steps of the IRS, giving continuity to the improvement of the progressiveity, which we have already introduced with the replacement of the family quotient by the new support measure for children of the most needy families.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u84	Mal! Mal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u85	This is our tax program. Now, there is also our electoral programme, which is not the Government's programme, measures such as the successive tax. This measure is not part of the Government's programme, and it is not for one reason that we have withdrawn from the Government's programme the set of measures that we had in the electoral programme and which aimed at diversifying sources of social security financing to be discussed in the context of social dialogue. And so we will be in the center of social dialogue. With regard to the IMI, I register also on a proposal from the CFP, which we have already lowered the maximum rate of IMI, and we have complied with an old PS proposal, which was to put back a safeguard clause to protect families from gross increases in IMI. Honestly, Mrs. Member, I understand the effort you want to make to recover an old tradition of the CDS, which was to be the champion of the taxpayers, but, with all honesty, after having been part, for four years, of a government that was the champion in tax increases,... [[P.S.'s applause from some BE Members.]] ... a little bit of stink would not be wrong for a government that was the first in 20 years — I repeat, in 20 years — to stand out without beginning to increase the IRC, which swore not to increase, and without increasing the VAT, which had also sworn not to increase. We were the first in 20 years! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some caution, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u86	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u87	Mr President, Prime Minister, register, and I would like to point out very carefully that Mr Prime Minister has not responded to the successive tax and therefore remains to be questioned whether in the Government programme or in social consultation we will have the reintroduction, or not, of the successive tax in Portugal, which will certainly deserve the full repudiation of the CDS. I also record that Mr. Prime Minister, who was not against the end of austerity, began by raising taxes on petrol and gas oil, which penalises companies and families so much ; he began by withdrawing the family quotient, penalizing families;... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ...and it also started by introducing something... On the IMI, it was precisely the question I would ask you next, because it is once again an austerity which prevents about the middle class.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u88	About what?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u89	About the IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u90	The IMI? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u91	You have not carefully read your Stability Programme, but I can read it. in the last page of its Stability Programme it is said: «(...) a progressive mechanism will be introduced in the direct taxation of real estate, with reference to the global real estate estate held. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister assumes that he will increase the IMI. Question: How much will IMI increase? What do you mean 'global real estate'? Do you take into account the number of buildings or the overall value of buildings? What concrete impact, for example, will it have on rural IMI? I wonder if this is feasible without first approving legislation on registration, which was ready but which needs to be continued. By the way, how does it assess the situation of the returned buildings that already pay three times more IMI, I mean urban buildings, and that, in fact, cannot be placed on the lease market? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u92	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I check the following technique — in fact, in part common to the PSD but more developed by the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u94	I take that as a compliment!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u95	And take as much praise, for obviously it was a compliment. But this is the following: instead of criticizing measures from the Government, she puts the possibility that any measures from the Government might be put in place if such measures were to be opposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, we are going to focus on the IMI because of the time I have available. What did we do about the IMI? We lowered the maximum rate, we benefited the taxpayers. Secondly, we reject the safeguard clause to ensure that no one will be subjected to an excessive increase in IMI, i.e. protecting taxpayers. Now, the honourable Member does not praise us or criticize us for what we have done. What the honourable Member wants now is to discuss hypothetical measures, which we have not taken...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u96	They're in the Stability Program!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u97	...to put himself as a hypothesis of opposition. Mrs. Member, let's go back to the real and leave the odds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u98	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u99	Mr. Prime Minister, it is with great sadness that I see that you do not know your Stability Programme and that you do not take it as reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u100	I wanted to move on to another subject. We will still have plenty of time to talk about the 2016 deficit and therefore the theme, now, is that of the 2015 deficit. This week, in Parliament, the Minister for Finance said that without effect BANIF, the deficit would have remained at 3 03 %. My question is whether this number is confirmed and whether it is confirmed that, without all the effect of the bank, it will be 2, 8 %, which is quite relevant, as you know, to leave the excessive deficit procedure. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u101	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u102	Madam President, Madam Member, these are the official numbers and it is on the basis of them that we will support the position of Portugal with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u103	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u104	Madam President, Prime Minister, register. I have to say that when we speak in 3, 03 % we are talking in about 60 million. And if we don't get out of the excessive deficit procedure, that's why it's very incompetence of your government! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, PCP and BE rice.]] The next question, Prime Minister, has to do with the unemployment figures that were known this morning and that, in fact, do not sit down. We have followed three months in which unemployment does not « take off » : January, 12, 1 %; February, 12, 2 %; March, 12, 1 %. My question is what happens with your supposedly austerity policies that would have the huge advantage of creating jobs and which of your policies is responsible for these numbers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u105	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u106	Madam President, Mrs Assunción Cristas, what I do not feel is the absolute numbers, is 650 000 people who are unemployed. That does not give me rest, indeed,.... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP Protests]] ... and the awareness that if we do not reverse the policy that was followed we will not be able to have employment as a priority. That is why we must reverse this policy in order to have employment as a priority and to have a reduction in unemployment as an effective one. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u107	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u108	Mr President, Prime Minister, I can say that for those who said employment was the first priority, your government is failing across the line.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u110	Turning to another topic, which has to do with education and association contracts. We already know that we have a Minister of Education protected by FENPROF, but I would like to ask you if you are aware of what is happening in the field of contracts for association with private and cooperative education, if you are aware of a regulatory order calling into question more than 17 000 students and 4000 jobs. Are you following this situation?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u111	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u112	Madam President, if you ask all the questions, I will answer in the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u113	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u114	Madam President, I will gladly reply, but to the detriment of the questions of the next Member. It is just to say that there is no change, which is compliance with the law. Therefore, we will comply with the law and we will not make association contracts where there is public supply, because our priority in resource management is to guarantee investment in public school where it is essential. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u115	Mrs. Christian Assumption, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u116	Mr President, Prime Minister, that is certainly not our understanding of the law and that is not also the understanding of the whole sector that is being affected, but we will return to this issue. [[CDS-PP applause.]] - - - - - Mr Prime Minister, let me ask you about another subject. This week, Mr President of the Republic stressed the need for consensus and we have already spoken here about a matter that lacks great consensus. I ask again whether or not you are available to generate consensus on pension reform, social security reform, which is so necessary even if you want to deny it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u117	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u118	Madam President, Mrs Assunción Cristas, the consensus is not defined as abstract, it is defined in concrete terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not know at all any of your ideas on this matter, in addition to supporting a cut of EUR 600 million in pensions, which we do not support. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u119	Mrs Assumption Cristas, Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to answer, but the CDS-PP still has time, so if you want to use it, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u120	Mr President, Prime Minister, records the Government's lack of thinking on this matter, which is not the case with the CDS, where we have been talking about it for a long time and we are going to put forward concrete proposals. The last question, since we are talking about concrete proposals, is this: next week we will have in this House the first debate that is potentially scheduled by the CDS — it will be our first legislative agenda — on a subject that is very expensive to us, birth, support for families and demography. [[PS and PCP rice.]] I see that it is not a structural issue for these sides of the Hemicycle, which is unfortunate, because they have not noticed that in 2014 we were the worst country in the European Union in fertility index and the fifth worst in the world. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u122	I had not noticed that the issue of birth caused such discomfort on this side of the Hemicycle, especially when even BE wanted to bring material about it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I interpret it as a desire to present constructive proposals in this area. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u123	But, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you whether we can count on constructive proposals from the Government and the banks that support it and consider this to be one of the structural and relevant issues in our country. Now, because I don't know if you looked at the numbers, I would say that the elimination of the family quotient is certainly a very bad sign and the replacement that you have done only brings negative effects. [[CDS-P Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u124	Mrs Christian Assumption, as Mr Prime Minister has already said, there is no time to answer. You can possibly do so when you reply to the CFP. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa now has the floor to ask his questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u125	Madam President, President but does not determine how we should do it. [[Laughing.]] Mr President, Prime Minister, this new phase of national life, with the amendment of the composition of the Assembly of the Republic, has proved that we are not condemned to follow the course of exploitation and impoverishment of the last four years and has already allowed the restitution of income and rights of workers and the people that it is necessary to continue. The ideology of inevitability also suffered a deep setback. It is true that we still lack all the potential that this new situation allows, and this is partly due to the maintenance of the country's attachment to external constraints imposed by the European Union and that they are increasingly contradictory to the return of rights and incomes, which severely condition our development and are clearly evident in the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. from the perspective of the CFP, the solution to national problems is not the submission to the European Union's taxes nor the return to previous government policies, as the CDS and the PSD intend with their proposals and projects. They want to keep the policies of exploitation and impoverishment taken to the most extreme, they want to make the lives of the Portuguese walk back. They won't count on us on this path of backwardness. [[PCP applause.]] from the perspective of the CFP, it is necessary to break off external constraints and conditionalities, renegotiate debt, opt for a fiscal policy that more appropriately taxes economic groups, large companies, great fortunes, in order to free up the financial resources to increase public investment, support national production, value wages and pensions, ensure the functioning of public services with quality. This is the alternative policy that the country needs; it is neither easy nor simple, but we must try to achieve the step between the need and the possibility of a better life for Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u126	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u127	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we have a challenge ahead and the CFP has stressed it well: it is not always possible to reconcile the necessary change with the possible framework of change. But we understand that it is possible to do both: we are going to beat ourselves by extending the scope of the possibilities and, at the same time, to explore all the margins of possibility. There is a fight to be waged in the European Union, it is a necessary fight and, fortunately, we have seen several new steps, more solid and more timid, in order to extend the scope of the possibilities. Now, we cannot stop doing what is possible, we cannot, at first, give up doing what is possible and, more importantly, what is effectively necessary. We will not have better jobs, we will not have better births, we will not have better national production unless we are effectively unable to have a policy that bets and has as priority growth and job creation. And for that, investment is essential and there is obviously a need for fiscal reform. That is why we are going to work as a group to address the tax framework as well, so that it is a tax framework that encourages productive investment and job creation but combats social injustice, escape, avoidance and fiscal elision that have long existed. Yes, we need a fairer fiscal framework; that is what is envisaged in the Government's programme and that is why we will work together to achieve that framework. The President ( Teresa Caeiro ) : - Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u128	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, your last remarks are correct with a concern that I would like to convey to you. Expanding the purchasing power of Portuguese to dynamize the economy and to do justice on a social level is the necessary path and that we need to continue to travel, but this path also implies creating conditions to promote the production of the country, making the increase in Portuguese income translates into the development of national production, its consumption, and less into the imported component of that consumption. It is about this important problem that we would like to draw attention to and hear the views of the Prime Minister. We believe that it is time for the Government to engage more decisively in this very important battle of valorising national production, from the outset taking the initiative and moving forward with a great campaign of valuing Portuguese products to national consumers. We know from the limits of such a campaign if it is isolated from a solution of other problems, and therefore we also think that this is the moment of a more determined action and with another role on the part of the Government with the large distribution—that can be reserved for it the model of operation of the so-called PARCA (Agri-Food Chain Monitoring Platform ), of such weak results in national production by these large chains—and on the other hand with the guarantee of advertising measures and visibility of national brands. This is an intervention which should be accompanied by measures aimed at solving two other problems: the high energy costs and the difficulties and restrictions of access to credit by small businesses, which remain despite the liquidity injection into the financial system by the ECB. With regard to energy, Portugal and its productive sectors, as well as individual consumers, need and can have cheaper energy and the government must act to guarantee it. We believe that it is possible and necessary to take measures, in particular to reintroduce the system of price regulation in Portugal through the establishment of a maximum price mechanism compatible with the economic visibility of small and medium-sized enterprises and also with the access of families to energy. With regard to credit, Portugal needs another answer, through a credit policy, of financial instruments, conditions, guarantees, spreads, commissions, for the capitalisation, investment or treasury, tailored to the needs of small businesses. We are talking about a very important sector and it is a sector that had and has hope for the new political solution. We need to find concrete answers that solve their problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u129	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u130	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, as you know, one of the first measures the Government has taken was to create the Enterprise Capitalization Mission Unit, one of the key pillars of the National Reform Programme. This Mission Unit will present its proposals in June with a view to responding to the creation of a framework favourable to corporate capitalisation. One of the fundamental reasons why market liquidity and low interest rates are not favouring the financing of companies is the low rate of financial autonomy that companies have. For this, we need to find answers and we hope to have a set of proposals submitted by the Mission Unit in June. We also know that the issue of energy is a central issue and, therefore, from July onwards, the price of natural gas will fall to the end customers on average voltage, particularly companies, about 28, 5 %. We have been negotiating with Spain the reduction of the transit rate and we have asked ERSE to evaluate an incentive scheme for companies so that, in June, we can have this framework defined and take measures that respond to a reduction of an extremely heavy factor cost for many companies. But we do not ignore that, apart from these structural aspects, communication and a great national campaign is indeed important. There has been a campaign that has run out and that we are now looking to relaunch, Portugal, whose relaunch is going to one of the forthcoming Councils of Ministers. in this same logic, the Council of Ministers last week adopted an important measure on the labelling of meat, which is particularly important for the crisis that we are currently living in the field of pigmeat. We are going to launch a mission structure for the revitalization of local trade, which is fundamental, in fact, to boost local product proximity sales circuits and thus support local production. We have no doubt, in the crisis office that has worked in particular for the dairy sector and for the pigmeat sector, that the contribution of the national distribution could and should be better. I am often shocked when I hear, as you must have heard, many producers say that there is a chain of non-national distribution that has better practices, more friends of national production than some chains of national origin. This shocks me because it shows that it was possible for national distribution to be more friendly with national production. And that is something that must be said and publicly addressed to those responsible for the national distribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u131	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u132	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one last question. We all know what were the extraordinary regimes of tax regularization in their three versions of 2005, 2010 and 2011 : a public laundry for dirty money from big Portuguese capitalists and bankers, placed abroad, in tax havens, to escape tax. It was a wash made at a balance price, at a very cheap price, compared with what they should have paid on the IRC. It is known that the documentation of these washing processes was under the protection and custody of the Ministry of Finance, deposited in the Banco de Portugal, to destroy past 10 years on the application of the RRRT ( Exceptional Tax Regularization Regime ) — for RRRT 1 has already passed 10 years. The PCP has repeatedly requested information from the PSD/CDS-PP government and has alerted to the need not to destroy these roles, but has never received a response in this regard. We now know that there are people who have benefited from RRRT and who appear involved in the so-called « Panama Papers »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u133	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u134	I am finishing, Mr President, a paragraph is missing. ... as we know that research processes can be opened by the Public Prosecutor's Office on information brought by the so-called « Papers of Panama ». But there are other processes in progress. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether you have already taken or will take steps to ensure that the Ministry of Finance safeguards all RRRT documentation, avoiding, from now on, the destruction of RRRT 1 documentation until justice has closed all open or may be initiated. I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u135	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u136	Mr President, honourable Member, I have recently been alerted to this situation. I spoke with the Secretary of State for Finance and we are taking measures to ensure, in accordance with the law, that there will be no destruction of documents that may be relevant to any investigation that is open or that may come to be by the Public Prosecutor. That is what we have determined, and it is in this sense that the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs is working. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u137	It is now the turn of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I believe that this debate has been rather revealing, as others, and it has been particularly revealing about the pain of the right in this Parliament. The truth is they're aware that it took four years to infer...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u139	Getting the Country back!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u140	...life for families, gross increases in taxes, cuts in incomes, plans B for here, amending budgets for there. They had plans to cut 600 million euros into social security and are now « upset », Prime Minister. It is that this government does not increase the IRS and even returns its overtax, it does not increase the VAT—that it bothers! — and even returns wages and freezes pensions. What I would like to remind you here is that this government has joint positions with other parties, including the Greens, and indeed it has to respect. What a « rattle» for the PSD and for the CDS-PP, Mr Prime Minister, but what a benefit and rest for Portuguese families! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u141	I think that should be emphasized. On the other hand, there was a very clarifying issue, in particular by the CDS-PP, which was the aerodrome defense of the privatization of education. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] I would like to congratulate you, Prime Minister, on the clear position of the public school defence government. I think it is very good that association contracts will only happen where there is no answer from the public school. That is the letter of the law, and that is the spirit that should guide us to strengthen public school. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]] On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, already in the course of the debate, has moved forward with a series of government measures that seek to generate greater transparency on the issue of offshores. Mr. Prime Minister, in fact, when we talk about offshore, we speak of a brutal stain of capitalism, of concealment of heritage, of hiding fortunes, of escaping taxes. We are talking about resources that States might be using and that are not being framed for the benefit of the peoples. Mr. Prime Minister, in addition to these transparency measures that can be adjusted here or there, I would really like to know what the government intends to do to contribute to the end of the offshore. What work can we do at national and international level to push in this direction?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u142	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u143	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, this is a work that requires international coordination. So in January, we signed an international agreement on information exchange with a group of 30 other OECD countries and today we will approve a bilateral agreement with the United States of America on information exchange and a set of bilateral agreements to combat tax evasion and double taxation. This international network to be set up is absolutely essential, but we must also fight against European institutions, in particular through the adoption of legislation, such as the outcome of the proposals already adopted in the European Parliament, so that taxation takes place at the place where income is generated, in order to prevent these situations of tax dumping that are going through the different countries of the European Union. Tax dumping carried out by some countries, particularly by some more developed countries to the detriment of others, is the worst forms of breakdown of solidarity within the European Union. This is the effort that must be made in such a way that there is a conjugated action that allows, increasingly, international transparency, tracking of funds, being more difficult to escape from the fulfilment of tax obligations, hiding money from crime or stealing from the fulfilment of social justice duties. Yes, it is necessary to fight and block offshore and fight for fiscal justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u144	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u145	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I think the word you used at the end of your speech is to retain and must be an engine of action: to stop. Working is important with regard to offshores. Mr Prime Minister, there is an issue which I would like to highlight here and which has to do with the following: we have divergent positions on the subject of hydrocarbon exploration off the Portuguese coast and also onshore. In any case, the government's position cannot ignore what it has to do with supervision and it has to pay particular attention to what is going on. The fact is that in Aljezur there was a license to a company to drill for water harvesting in order to water six hectares of vegetables. The company caught a huge amount of water, but continued to drill. The legitimate suspicion is that drilling had another objective: exploration and research of hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u146	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u147	We know that, in view of the complaints that have been made...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u148	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u149	I will finish, Mr. President. I said that, in view of the complaints made, the APA (Portuguese Association of the Environment) has already ordered to suspend this drilling. Mr. Prime Minister, given the damage resulting from the prospecting of hydrocarbons off the Algarve, knowing of the strong challenge, there is a need for more on-the-spot monitoring because the risk of pollution can come at any time and cannot be overlooked. However, more supervision means more human resources on the ground, which needs to be strengthened, and that is exactly what APA has come to complain to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u150	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u151	Mr President, Mrs Deputies, as I said in respect of the prospect of the Green Domus in Aljezur, yesterday the suspension of the work being carried out in Rogil was determined, precisely because they did not respect the rules on prospecting. Moreover, supervision has been carried out and an audit of contracts has been requested from the National Fuel Markets Authority. This audit was conducted and allowed to detect errors in the form of submission of the work plan, non-compliance with the obligation to provide security and non-compliance with the obligation to submit proof of the constitution and maintenance of the insurance contract. following this opinion, the Government sent this information to the Attorney-General of the Republic, in particular by requesting information on the validity of the administrative act awarding concessions to Portfolio. Oil drilling is not yet being carried out. In any event, and in the face of irregularities, information has been requested from the Attorney-General of the Republic whether or not the concession granted is valid. As for the other drilling which you referred to, you were asked to stop the work taking into account the impact you had on the aquifers and the results you were having. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u152	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Government members : currently in Portugal there is an entity designated by the ‘National Defence Industries Platform’, which aims to promote companies operating in the sector. In addition to producing materials and equipment that serve the defence and enhancement of our territory and the protection of populations, such as forest protection, cartographic update, environmental monitoring, traffic optimization or coastal patrol, these companies also export materials and components that are used in the war industry. According to the report of 27 April, published in a newspaper of reference and according to the defence industry itself, this business area already accounts for around EUR 2000 million, approximately 1 % of national GDP, and the objective, according to this industry, is that within 10 years, it can represent 2 % of GDP, i.e., it intends to double the turnover. Mr. Prime Minister, we are concerned about this. Will Portugal base its economic growth, its supposed progress, ethical and social, exporting materials, equipment and components that will contribute to fuel the war and conflicts that destroy lives and cause human suffering? Every Friday we read here, in this plenary, vows of condemnation and sorrow for violent acts carried out using war material. Do we also intend to be a country that develops and feeds on the wars and sufferings of other peoples?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u154	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I were to limit myself to the strict wording of your question, my answer was easy to say: 'No, we are not going to base our economic growth on the defence industries'. But I think I have something else to answer. The defence industries have, as you said, an important role in our economy that we should not underestimate. International arms trade is a regulated trade, it must be more and more and we must adhere to good practices in this international trade. But the country should not abandon another industrial line. on the contrary, the country has to invest in the different industrial rows and start, of course, by not wasting those that it has. It must do so in accordance with ethical standards, in accordance with international law, in accordance with good practice and in the regulated market. But it must not stop investing in an important industry such as the defence industry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u156	You have the floor to ask questions on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and members of the Government, some of the issues I wanted to put to Mr Prime Minister here have already been put by the various parliamentary groups. Let me, however, say that, at the conclusion of this debate, it is a central issue of our political life that has to do with the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, and that, finally, it would seem to me that priority should be given to this. They are two programmes whose connection is not detrimental to their different nature. If ambition is the brand of the Reform Programme, weighting is the brand of the Stability Programme. The Reform Programme, however, is not a prisoner of the Stability Programme. If in a glimpse of what we desire, in the other we measure what and when we can. This is the combined meaning of these two documents: one more tied to what the country needs and deserves, another more conditioned to which the European Union insists on wrongful eating, as if 'quantativism' was the measure of quality or as if the tenths of deficit and debt were the leaven of budgetary salvation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Qualifying Portuguese, taking advantage of resources, modernising the state and reorienting the economy are priorities. Reducing deficit and debt without wage cuts, pensions and increases in direct labour income taxes and businesses are instrumental objectives. There is no lack of structural reforms, measures and targets. Of course, in an initial criticism of his shortage some have already passed to the denunciation of his abundance; in a criticism of his immoderateness others have complained of his lack of ambition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The first conclusion, Prime Minister, is therefore that, as in the last State budget, these programmes renew, in part, the PS's policy commitment to the parties with which it has signed governance agreements, and in other cases, the commitments we are subject to with the European authorities. in a case like in another case we didn't think on our own: we heard who wanted to listen and we looked for who could contribute. As a result, these documents, including the National Reform Programme, have been subject to changes and improvements that have detailed and improved them, including dozens of opposition proposals that we will approve tomorrow. The second conclusion is that these programmes were never so polled and discussed in the country on the initiative of the Government, especially before they were sent and evaluated by the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not surprising, therefore, that those who in the past have never attached importance to what was proposed in this Parliament and said about these programmes are now invoking their vote as what they lack. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This opposition continues incorrigible: it finds ghosts that carry planes b, like spells to forget reality; it prefers babbling rather than feeling feet on the ground. The reality is, yes, that the Government has the parliamentary support it needs and that these documents represent the commitment that the Government has made at the same time at the internal and external level. The third conclusion is therefore that the country has a government that fulfils its commitments and a majority that guarantees the political stability that Portugal lacks and that the right has not been able to rebuild or could give it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yesterday, in an atmosphere of free speech, the parliamentary leader of the CDS spoke of the ambivalence of the parties that support the government as if they were hybrids. You had the cranberry the health of the majority of parliament who disenfranchises! [[P.S.'s applause.]] in fact, what we have seen is a right to encounters in the hope of the most electric take the best place in the queue, who have already realized that it is very long. from there the competition of proposals with which they affect themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] from there they disagree until they agree. At the same time, while the CDS, in dramatic parliamentary management, announced that it would vote against the Stability Programme, one of its most accredited and influential co-religionaries says that this Programme represents a significant budgetary consolidation and that it sees that they are not just pious objectives. Cito : « I see signs of some political courage, some ability to face things and change things». [[P.S.'s applause.]] I continue to quote: 'Suffragion and subscribing below the objectives of the Stability Programme'. No, it wasn't Paulo Portas yet who said it. I read only the iconic, first supporter of the new leadership of Crystals and first name of its list for the National Council of the CDS, António Lobo Xavier. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fourth conclusion: the parliamentary majority of government support shows its cohesion and the right does not just understand how it is dissecting itself. It's the right side of mistrust. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The opposition has tried to discredit these programmes by calling into question their implementation and forecasts. He has no credibility to insinuate him. It was committed for the period 2011 / 2015 with a growing economy and GDP fell 6, 9 %. It was committed to increasing investment and made less EUR 6700 million, a public debt ratio of 101, 8 % and remained at 129 %. It was committed to a deficit of 0, 5 % of GDP in 2015, but as a reviewer it left the deficit at 9 times higher. Fifth conclusion: neither the PSD nor the CDS have the power to judge the forecasts we make. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To announce what is not done, to promise what is not done, to give what is not done and to propose what has been rejected is a mark of the past that will not be repeated with the PS in the future. Prime Minister : It was clear, during these debates, that we did not cultivate convenience optimisms or construct misleading scenarios. You therefore stressed the moderation and prudence in the estimates made and the effort to approach the recitals and methodologies of the European Commission. We have already proven that we do not say in the country what we do not say in Brussels, and we do not hide in Brussels what we think and say in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are therefore confident in a European dialogue in which we make use of our reasons, benefiting from the determination that the Prime Minister has already demonstrated and used successfully, in contrast to the penitence to which the previous government has submitted itself and subject the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I conclude by sharing one of our biggest concerns: the decapitalisation of companies in the last four years. Now that social support and income returns have been recovered that were considered preliminary, it is up to us to mobilize the confidence of companies with a friendly policy, to look closer to the business economy, especially in cases where they can invest in replacing imports and, to advance, with absolute priority, for co-financing of private investment and for high-value public investment multiplier, effectively mobilising Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u158	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, when taking these programmes to Brussels, present our congratulations and tell them that we need them, but that Europe also needs us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u160	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u161	Mr President, Mr César, Europe needs Portugal and especially Portugal needs to grow, create jobs and reconverge with the European Union. Europe does not need Portugal to drag on a long economic stagnation since the beginning of this century. And the fact that we have not just presented a Stability Programme this time, but we have focused our attention especially on the National Reform Programme, which means that we are not obsessed with the consequences of the crisis, we are, yes, focused on tackling the causes of the crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the causes of the crisis are the structural blocks to our growth, which have to do with the qualifications, with innovation, with the enhancement of the territory, with the modernization of the state and the system of justice, with the capitalization of companies, with the eradication of poverty and with the fight against inequalities. These are the structural causes that, since the beginning of this century, have remained Portugal stagnant, alternating periods of mediocre growth with periods of recession. We must break this cycle and we must only break it by not continuing to torture ourselves with regard to deficit and debt, but by attacking the causes that have led to unbalanced public finances, with excessive debt and often little-controlled deficits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] During this month, it was difficult for many people to realize the importance of the National Reform Programme, because it was so massively, over the past four years, the campaign around the deficit and the debt that were few of us wondering how the problem of growth would be solved. The most obsessively asked was: "So, what will be the deficit? Tell me what the deficit number is going to be? As if the issue of deficit was not the product of sound public finances and solid public finances were not the product of a growth, employment and convergence economy with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Montenegro.]] Therefore, the appreciation of the National Reform Programme is the first political gesture of the greatest importance in changing our development strategy. We're not going to focus on the conjuncural, we're going to attack what's structural. We are not going to put ourselves on the goal of the end of the year, we are going to put ourselves on the prospect of the medium term, in which we have to face and overcome our structural blockades. We are not going to put ourselves in the consequence, we are going to solve and attack what is the cause. That is why, throughout this month, we have heard everything. We began by hearing say that it was a program of good intentions, absolutely empty and in which no one could deny. When they finally realized that the National Reform Programme was a set of properly scheduled, budgeted and funding sources identified, then they stopped saying that it was an empty document, they stopped saying that it was a document with which they agreed, after all, to move on to say that it would be essential to vote on the document to show its divergence with respect to a new sustainable development strategy in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These debates clearly reveal the difficulty that the opposition has to tackle the measures effectively carried out by the government, and therefore they are always waiting for tomorrow's day: 'tomorrow it is', 'tomorrow the markets will adjust', 'tomorrow the European Commission will not allow', 'tomorrow the unity of the majority will break', 'tomorrow it will be'... but tomorrow they will pass, they will turn into today, they will turn into yesterday and none of these misfortunes will be happening. There is another technique: the CDS variant, which, instead of attacking the measures this year, attacks next year's measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u162	He's attacking the ones this year!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u163	In fact, I was thinking, but why is Mrs. Christian Assumption so concerned with the 2017 IMI?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u164	Because of the measures they approved in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u165	It does not only have to do with what they approved in 2015. It is that, 15 days ago, when I was here, the great anxiety of the CDS had to do with the VAT that we would increase in this Stability Programme! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u166	They've raised the minimum rate! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u167	And at the time, kindly, I gave a counsel that I see that has benefited: don't feed potatoes that fade in two weeks. So that daddy won't fade in two weeks, he's got a daddy, not for the next 15 days, but for the end of the year, which is to see if for a few months he can live from the daddy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Madam Member, you will now excuse frankness, but you did not understand what was essential. The problem is not if the daddy lasts 15 days or if it lasts three months. The problem is that you don't oppose Dad, you oppose him when you have an alternative to the policies that are actually being implemented. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u168	Alternatives we have many! Your problem is that your alternative doesn't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u169	And, Madam Member, that is the problem: VAT has not been increased, which has been a fall in VAT in the restoration; IMI has not been increased, which has been a reduction in the maximum rate of IMI and the reintroduction of the safeguard clause to protect families from the increase of IMI. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u170	We are always one step ahead of the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us focus on the real and not on the efabulation of the virtual. The pope may torment stories of packing, but does not torment a country that, fortunately, to every prophecy, denied, of opposition, goes on to say: perhaps, after all, they were right, perhaps it was even possible to fulfill European commitments and return the payback to public officials.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u172	Let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u173	It may even have been possible to fulfil European commitments and eliminate the overtax of IRS. It may be possible to fulfil European commitments and reduce the VAT of restoration, and it is possible to comply with European commitments and restore the CIS, social income of insertion and family allowance. Yes, it is possible, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u174	This isn't a joke! We're not in elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u175	And it is possible for a fundamental reason: because we want it to be possible. Because, in fact, we are not here to continue the troika nor are we here to invoke the troika to do the Programme that we really wanted to run. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u176	He's training for the congress!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u177	That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone good work for the next 15 days,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u178	Why? Are you on vacation? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u179	...and that in 15 days you don't have your dreams so tormented by popes that reality insists on lying. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u180	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u181	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u182	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u183	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u184	It is about the conduct of the works and has nothing to do with this internal council, which we have just attended, of preparation for the Congress of the Socialist Party. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u185	Mr President, this part no longer has to do with the conduct of the work!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u186	I ask the Prime Minister not to leave the Chamber, because the question has to do with the document he has distributed. in the course of my inquiry to Mr Prime Minister, he promised to deliver to the Assembly of the Republic, and he did so, which he has designated as « contingency plan for 2017 - 2020 ». [[No, no!]] [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u187	If it's nothing like that, then my interpellation is even in the sense of knowing what role it has been distributed. The role that has been distributed — and I would ask the Bureau to cooperate and, now, the other Members, to see if we all understand. I know there are some who are ahead, but it's not my case -- it's point 6 of any document. I ask, and to that end, the Government's cooperation, which document we are talking about, to know exactly what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u188	You have already noticed, Mr President, that the government can respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u189	Mr. President, let me finish. First question: is this the budget contingency plan from 2017 to 2020 or not? Second question: there has not been... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u190	Mr President, this is no longer an appeal to the Bureau, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u191	Mr President, I will end with a very simple question in favour of clarity in the political debate: since this document is from 2017 to 2020, that means that there is no contingency plan for 2016? These are the questions I wanted to ask. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u192	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u193	If the Government wishes to respond under the same regiment figure, it can do so. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u194	Mr President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, I said I would distribute the famous picture that we had hidden! ...it was the secret picture, the picture we had hidden! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u195	So the Minister of Finance is lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u196	The table is entitled « Identification of budgetary consolidation measures, their impact on the budget balance in each year and identification of the register in national accounts ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u197	in what context?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u198	As I said, this framework, which was handed over to the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support, to the European Commission, to the Council of Public Finance, is limited to discriminating the aggregated values contained in the Stability Programme. This document is not a contingency program.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u199	Tell the country whether or not there is a contingency program!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u200	This document is what I said it was: a working document that is neither secret nor hidden, nor anything. It is a working paper that discriminates against the numbers in the plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u201	Ending the 15th year discussion with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). The Rules of Procedure, on the economic and social situation, thank the Prime Minister and the Members. Members of the Government are present in this House. You now have the floor to read the file, Mr Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 180 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — prohibits the use of public money for direct or indirect financing of Tauromachical Activities ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 181 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — prohibits the use of minors in Tauromachic ( NAP) shows, which fall to 10. the Commission, 182 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — prohibits the transmission of Tauromach shows at the public television station RTP, which falls to 12. the Commission, 183 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Regulates the access to pregnancy of replacement in cases of absence of the uterus, injury or disease of this organ which absolutely and definitively prevents pregnancy by making the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ) ; and draft resolution No 275 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up the White Paper on the state of the environment, which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-28.u203	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the agenda under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, a thematic debate required by the CFP, on the financial system and public control of the bank. of the second point, there is the schedule of Bill No. 183 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — It regulates the access to pregnancy of replacement in cases of absence of the uterus, injury or disease of this organ which impedes pregnancy in an absolute and definitive manner, making the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September (BE), without time for discussion. There will also be regular votes at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 9 minutes.]]
