ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Mrs. Members, as you know, our agenda today has as its first item political declarations, the order of which will be as follows: PCP, The Greens, PSD, PS, Left Block and CDS-PP. For a political declaration on behalf of the CFP, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese are free to build their future, to choose their ways, without external pressures or blackmails. Regardless of whether there was anyone who sang « victory» about the sanction process in Portugal under the so-called « excessive deficit procedure », the truth is that this process was not closed. The European Union has not only given up as it has been prolonging blackmail on Portuguese. The pretext of non-compliance with budgetary targets as a result of the PSD/CDS government action, the European Union seeks to condition the political choices for current and future State budgets and central government options. The pressure now exerted, i.e. sanctions do not represent a mere budgetary or economic instrument of the European Union, but a political instrument of blackmail, interference which denounces the nature and ideological matrix of the European Union. The message they want to make is not addressed to the Portuguese Government, it is addressed to all Portuguese people and they want to give a lesson: do not dare to decide about your destiny, do not dare to build your future, do not dare to want the wealth that they have produced, nor reconstitute rights that have been stolen from you. Every achievement that the Portuguese people achieve with their struggle, every euro that the Portuguese invest in their National Health Service, education, culture, justice, security forces, pensions and reforms, economic development, is a less euro for taxation and to save the large national and foreign banks. And it's the battle for each of these euros that we're blocking. In the film by Tarantino, Django Libertato, Stephen, being a slave, rose to the position of the foreman and turned out to be even more bloody and cruel than the boss himself. The foreman is a slave, but preserving this position means being more boss than the boss. PSD and CDS are Stephen in the way the European Union pressures and blackmails Portugal and the Portuguese, placing themselves as foremen of the great European powers, to whom, even as the Government of the Portuguese Republic, they were proud to provide boating. [[PCP applause.]] instead of being on the side of the conquests, the recovery of the rights of the Portuguese, PSD and CDS rejuvenate with all and any measure of blackmail or pressure that may create difficulties to this recovery of rights and incomes and stand as the foreman who complains to the European Union about the boldness of his people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u3	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u4	But this process and the way the European Union acts in front of Portugal at this political moment have meanings that cannot be ignored. Firstly, sanctions result from a political framework and the CFP is not in a position to support and praise the process of building the European Union, to comply with and accept its rules, but to counter its results. In other words, the CFP does not only combat the application of sanctions to Portugal, the CFP denounces and gives strong combat for a long time all the architecture that allows even equal economic sanctions to States. Secondly, the nature of sanctions demonstrates that the European Union's intentions are precisely to concentrate wealth and extend the economic and political domain of the great European powers. Only in a distorted political perspective can a cut be applied to a country in funding because the financing of the previous year was not sufficient to meet targets set by entities other than that country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u6	The European Union assumes a role as a censor, as a distributor of punishment, when they have always sold it as a support for development, as a free union of States to improve the distribution of wealth and raise the living conditions of the Portuguese. Thirdly, the process of sanctions, regardless of its outcome, is already an illegitimate and unacceptable external pressure on national sovereignty, a direct and concrete interference in the lives of Portuguese people and their political options. The Portuguese were deceived by the presentation of the European Union as a project of fraternity, freedom, social and economic development, respecting the sovereignty of the peoples. At no time have they been called to legitimize an aggressive, militaristic, federalist, punitive European Union and to serve the economic interests of the great powers, particularly Germany and its monopoly groups. However, this has always been the European Union that has been built on the back of the peoples and is with its pressures and blackmails that we are again facing. Fourthly, the process of possible sanctions is not disconnected from the economic functioning of the single currency and from the concrete situation in Portugal. Although the sanctions refer to the budgetary results resulting from the mandate of the previous Government, it is about the future budgetary commitments that are being used as pressure. In other words, the European Union threatens to suspend access to Community funds as a way to condition future options, in particular the State Budget for 2017, seeking the continuation of the exploitation and impoverishment process that PSD and CDS imposed on Portuguese to pay the costs of the constant assault on the economy by banks. Here arrived, perhaps more clearly than ever, it is legitimate for the Portuguese to question whether it was worth the set of sacrifices and the aggression they were targets. Is it worth losing to foreigners in recent years more than 500 000 young people, many of them qualified, throw into poverty one third of the Portuguese, give up fishing, agriculture, industry, cut wages and pensions, destroy jobs, privatize businesses? All of this because of a European Union project which, after all, is exactly the opposite of what we have always been told. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this question leads us to say, face-to-face, that the Portuguese Communist Party has alerted from the very first moment to the consequences of such a European Union project. But more than that, it leads us today to affirm the need to reject submission to the European Union, confronting those who, with their lies, have allowed, and still legitimize, a European political framework that allows foreign institutions to exert unacceptable pressure on political options of the peoples. This is not about forging a false party unit against sanctions. It is a question of rejecting the blackmail and pressure of the European Union and of denouncing those who today, before the Portuguese, give rise to patriots, against the sanctions, but here and there, where they can speak, vote and decide, help to build the treaties and pacts in which the sanctions are defined. Breaking with the practice of these parties, building a patriotic and left-wing alternative and a government at the height of the people it represents is, in this as in other political crossroadss, the solution capable of returning to Portugal the progress and the April project. It's with this project that's PCP. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is still registering the names of the Members. Members who wish to request clarification. I once again leave a call for registrations to be made during the political declaration and not afterwards. [[Pause.]] Mr Miguel Tiago, the Bureau records three requests for clarification, in particular the Greens, the PSD and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u8	And isn't the PS gonna ask for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u9	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Miguel Tiago, I would first of all like to congratulate you on bringing this issue of sanctions for discussion. I think the matter is not only timely, but should also lead us to reflect on what is happening in this world and, above all, in Europe. It's strange that you're talking about sanctions for three reasons. First, because throughout the history of the European Union, on a number of occasions and on a number of occasions, several countries have overcome the deficit. in all, it was about 160 times that the deficit was overcome. Only France exceeded it 11 times and never spoke in sanctions. This is the first time we have heard about sanctions for a country not fulfilling the deficit. It's weird! Secondly, it is also not surprising that the European Commission has instituted a proceeding with Portugal because of the 2015 deficit, the responsibility of which is entirely the responsibility of the previous government, and therefore, if it is about the 2015 deficit, there is nothing that this government can do to change it because it is finished. Thirdly, it is strange that if we want to punish our country, when the European Union gave instructions to the previous government, which followed them religiously, and now the European Union wants to punish our country for the fact that the previous government has followed — not with canine fidelity, but with an absolute obsession — blindly its guidelines. Perhaps, if there was any sense, it would be the European Union that would have the obligation to compensate Portugal for giving the wrong instructions that the previous government had followed religiously. Don't stop being weird! Mr Miguel Tiago, what we believe is that it was time for Europe to rethink its path, to turn more towards citizens and to think less about markets, because the European Union is transformed into an instrument of neoliberalism, has dropped such important concepts as solidarity between peoples or social cohesion. It was therefore time for the European Union to rethink its path, to stop pursuing its processes outside of the citizens...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u11	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u12	I will finish, Madam President. Mr President, I should like to know whether we share this reading. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has exceptionally accepted the inclusion of two others. Members of the Socialist Party and of the CDS-PP, to request clarification from Mr Miguel Tiago. I underline that it was really exceptional. We will not accept any further requests for clarification that are not made during the political declaration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u14	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u15	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u16	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u17	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u18	Madam President, it is to say that we do not see any problem in accepting other entries in this round of questions to Mr Miguel Tiago, especially because we were strange that the Socialist Party did not register. However, if an identical situation happens, of some delay in registration by other banks, I would like to ask the President to consider this exception as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u19	That is what I just said, Mr President, that is to say that this exception will apply only to this round. The Bureau will be absolutely strict with the times.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u20	No, no, about all rounds!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u21	Do you want to chair the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u22	Since I was informed that Mr Miguel Tiago intends to respond individually to each of the Members. Members, you have the floor to reply to Mr Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u23	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, of the various considerations you have made, I think it would be fair to say that the CFP does not only agree with one, which is that the European Union has lost the prospect of humanism and democratic construction which it had originally had. In our view, the European Union never had this purpose, it never had as a project the social and harmonious development of the peoples and economies that integrate its space, and therefore it cannot be said that it has lost. Of course this is a precious thing, but it has some relevance. With regard to the other issues raised — in relation to disparities in the application of the criteria, to the two weights and two measures in the application of sanctions within the framework of the European Union, in the excessive deficit procedure or in the context of other budgetary targets — from the point of view of the CFP, in essence, this only denounces that the rules in the European Union are not made to ensure the harmonious and balanced social and economic development of the States ; on the contrary, they were designed from the first moment to concentrate wealth and at the same time to extend the political and economic and even cultural field of the main powers of the European Union. That is why these disparities and this duality of criteria also occur. He also raised an issue which is important and which I, in the rostrum, may not have had enough time to develop it, so I take advantage of this request for clarification to do so: the way these sanctions are thought to be, at least, perverse, considering that we are punishing a country with economic instruments, precisely because it had difficulties in overcoming economic constraints. Therefore, to the point of view of those who say that they want to improve the economic conditions of a country would be counterproductive. Once again, it denounces only the true nature and character of these sanctions and how they have been used as an instrument of blackmail and pressure. These sanctions or possible sanctions do not go to the past, although they are justified by the results of the PSD/CDS government. They have as their central intention to condition the fates of the Portuguese right now and condition the options of the Portuguese for the future, to ensure that all the wealth that the Portuguese produce in the future continues to be referred to save the big banks and to pay for the aggrievement that the European Union has also stimulated by all countries. Therefore, Mr President, on these issues, I could say that there is full convergence of views between the CFP and the Greens Ecological Party, in terms of which it places them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u24	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, I have just been in doubt about the hesitation of the Socialist Party, because they really didn't seem to want to ask questions on such an important subject when everything was directed to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u26	I can't answer about that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u27	Because whoever has to comply with these rules or not, these conditions are the Socialist Party, who governs this coalition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u28	You guys don't really have anything to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u29	But I understand all the difficulties that you have on this subject. You know something curious? You have already "extended" completely and have come to the point of saying: « Well, we don't get out of the euro, we have to get out of Europe, we have to get out of what the conditions and the rules we have to comply with ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u31	There is no problem, it is the understanding of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u32	Get out of Europe? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u33	But this is what the Socialist Party thinks, which governs the country? Is that what the Socialist Party thinks? That's what we want to know. [[PS protests.]] Because with regard to the suspension of funds or any sanctions, the Social Democratic Party has long taken a very clear position on this matter: we are against any sanctions in Portugal! We're against it! Bridge!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u34	We've said it several times! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u35	But do you know who is suspending Community funds? It's you and your government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u36	What did you not understand yesterday when Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs spoke? What did you not realize yesterday when we were talking about sustainability, for example? Where, for example, are the funds for urban mobility, for urban regeneration, for cultural and natural heritage, for energy efficiency? Do you know what the execution rate is? Zero! And zero is zero! And this is your government! Excuse me, but in your secret and clandestine meetings, do you not speak of these "depressive treasures"? Don't you talk about it? [[Clandestines?Oh, my God!]] [[Clandestines?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u37	You're a seamstress! Is it armed in José António Saraiva? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u38	Listen, this is important for Portugal, it's too important! In the field of competitiveness and internationalisation, the implementation rate is 2, 5 %. Isn't that fund suspension? That's what you're doing, and because of incompetence! And you are the guardians of this temple, there is no doubt. They are entertained with this conversation « not paying debt, we will leave the euro, we will leave Europe, there are no sanctions », but as far as it matters to the country and which gives dynamics to economic activity, investment and public investment also, because Community funds allow this, you are in a sacred silence!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u39	You guys didn't do the housework!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u40	It is beautiful to see this sacred silence, particularly of the most radical left.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u41	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u42	My question is simple: what are you doing to avoid this stop, this clear suspension of funds, namely the stop-up of payments to SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) through the DLBC ( Local Development of Community Base ), which have not even opened an invitation to tender for small investment projects in low-density territories? What are you doing to solve these problems? Say, if you please, that's what we're trying to know. Girginance, gerginance! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u43	To reply, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u44	Mr President, this diversion maneuver by the PSD and Mr António Costa Silva reveals well the degree of commitment that the PSD has to the current situation in the country and the application of possible sanctions to Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u46	... a degree of commitment that is a concrete result of their political options and of what they have done as a government, of the results they have obtained and of the acceptance they have come to reveal over time on the rules of the European Union which define and provide for sanctions. The involvement of the PSD in this matter is total and it did not deserve a single word in a request for clarification of an intervention by the CFP which was precisely on this matter. This deviation characterizes very much the way PSD knows about its responsibilities, but at the same time it wants them to run away at all costs. Mr António Costa Silva said that the PSD is against sanctions. The PSD has been revealing this position by giving rise to patriotism, but at the same time accepts all the rules — in fact, it has actively contributed to imposing on Portuguese all these rules which currently result in sanctions, not only in the political and budgetary results that they obtained in 2015 and which today activate the possibility of sanctions, but in the design of the architecture itself which provides for the application of sanctions to the peoples and States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u48	I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that Portugal would never be at risk from Europe. It is not clear that we can take it on the continent and put it in Africa! [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] At a very long time, and if that were good for the Portuguese people and for the social, economic and political development of Portugal, then the possibility of leaving the European Union would be put in place-CL. The geography still does not allow us to leave Europe, so excuse me to shake the daddy of suddenly wanting to put Portugal there knows whether it is in Africa, or something like that. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u49	The stone fence!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u50	To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Tiago, the previous process of sanctions, which was satisfactorily closed for Portugal, was well illustrated by the state of disintegration and disorientation, lack of project and direction which today has the European Union which, in the current context of international difficulties—with the crisis of Deutsche Bank, with the Asian threats, with the international instability that exists and with the problems that Europe has to solve at the level of unemployment and the social crisis—has concentrated on deciding on sanctions to a country whose deviation from the budget deficit target in more or less 0, 003 % of European GDP. That the European Union would have wanted to give priority to this discussion says everything about what it is! The reply of Commissioner Juncker, President of the European Commission, on France — which is France! — and whose deviations do not count as Portugal's — which, of course, is Portugal! —, says everything about the will. Therefore, we were not surprised that the right had much difficulty in getting out of the photograph of the condemnation of these sanctions, even when, in every argument he presented along the way — that of the current policy, what he says and what the current government does and the majority support he has in the Assembly of the Republic... — I gave all the reasons, as you did here today, which justified the unacceptable sanctions. It is in this paradox that lives on the right: sanctions are unfair, but they can be done, as an old commentator said. What we have before us today is precisely the demonstration that this mechanism is a machine of European blackmail against democracy in Portugal, against the choice that the people made in the elections last year, to end austerity, to turn the page of this policy. It is before this choice and this political majority that has been set up in the Assembly of the Republic that today the European institutions come again with the blackmail of sanctions. But we do not forget that the period they respect is that of the implementation of 2015, of the 2015 deficit and therefore of the governance of the right. It is about right-wing governance that debate these sanctions, not about the current government, not about the current political options. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u52	That is why, Mr Miguel Tiago, we always find this yellow smile on the right side. When sanctions do not happen it is because their expectations have not been confirmed, and this presence in the photograph always comes out with this yellow smile! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u53	To reply, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u54	Mr President, Mr Jorge Costa, thank you for the questions you have raised. Firstly, the process of blackmailing and the possible application of sanctions to Portugal under the excessive deficit procedure is not completed and much less can be said to be satisfactorily closed, mainly considering that, regardless of the outcome it will have, it continues to be used as a pressure instrument on Portuguese sovereignty bodies, on the Portuguese people and also as a blackmail tool for Portuguese people who, in a way, try to discourage the Portuguese people from daring to acquire rights or regain rights. This instrument, even more than economic, financial or budgetary, eventually translates into an instrument of realization of a political and ideological project of the European Union, which is that of the generalization and institutionalization of capitalism and neoliberalism. This process leads us to question at the moment, and this is the question that the CFP wants to bring today to the Assembly of the Republic — what is the response that the sovereign bodies, including the Assembly of the Republic, and the Portuguese give to the use of the blackmail instrument by the European Union. Furthermore, it was very clear that the PSD and the CDS did not even reject the legitimacy of the European Union to impose any kind of sanctions, nor was there even a rejection of the PSD and CDS in the face of the political instrumentation which the European Union has been making to condition the fates of the Portuguese and the work of the sovereignty agencies of the Portuguese Republic. The assertion of this non-rejection proves, in fact, that it also highlighted the issue it has raised, that it is the compromise of the PSD and the CDS both with the political and budgetary results that depolate sanctions, or with the very conception of economic sanctions to States in the context of the excessive deficit procedure. Therefore, the question arises whether or not it rejects entirely, without any doubt, the attempt at interference that is being carried out by the institutions of the European Union, in a clear connection with the great economic interests of the European Union and Portugal and with parties who are willing to play the role of puppets of these interests and who have come to defend this project. A short time ago, the PSD Member stressed that the European Union is like an unbreakable dogma. For us, CFP, the rules of the European Union are questionable in the interest of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u55	Mr President, you have far exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u56	For the PSD, even if it is harmful, even if it harms the Portuguese people and their development, we must stay in the European Union at all costs, adopt their rules and apply them on Portuguese. We think differently. For the PCP, first of all, there is the people and the country and only then the adoption of rules that can benefit the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u57	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Tiago, obviously—and this is to be welcomed in democracy—, the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party do not have the same view on the European construction model. However, the Socialist Party also does not present the acrylic vision that the PSD presents to us here well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u59	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u60	Well, we know that the PSD came here to do some incidents, it's the incident party! He did not ask questions, he only posed parliamentary incidents. It has only not answered how many proposals the Social Democratic Party will present in the next State Budget, which is about to enter this House, or, being completely against the interests of the country, if, once again, it does not present a single proposal. Perhaps the best thing for the country is not to put forward proposals, because they do not really have any proposals to submit! Mr Miguel Tiago, the Socialist Party would like to leave you a few questions. How is it possible that a right-wing government, a government supported by the European Commission and the President of the European Commission, a government that for years has been praised by the European Commission for its excellent results, is now guilty of failing to meet its goals and objectives in 2015? Nor is it curious to know who has responsibility for these goals and for these objectives. Who was in the government? Why did the European Commission, for years and years, say nothing about achieving objectives or not and is now very concerned? We would also like to know the views of Mr Miguel Tiago and the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party on why this view is at this time in relation to Portugal and not to other States. One last question to ask you about whether these sanctions, which, from a theoretical point of view, are being equationed to Portugal, may or may not be the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS — and of course they are! — and may or may not contribute to Portugal's poor image abroad, jeopardising external investment, the need of which both the PSD and the CDS here so much like to proclaim. Obviously, sanctions may call into question the image of Portugal and external investment. And whose responsibility is that? And now I question which party is responsible for in November 2015 for zero euro of Community funds implemented in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u61	To reply, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u62	Mr President, Mr Hugo Costa, the duality of the criteria and the way in which the European Commission has come to comment on the Portuguese political and economic situation denounces what in my speech I have asked to refer to: the service of whom is the European Commission? What is your ideological matrix? And what is its political nature? The European Commission, of course, uses the rules in the interests of its objectives. And the aim of the concentration and accumulation and enlargement of the area of great European powers is at present to be consistent with the application or at least the use of sanctions as an instrument of blackmail in the face of the Portuguese political situation, the options that Portuguese can take and the solutions they can come to build. What is urgent is to clarify, that the CFP also wants to clarify in this debate and that, in some ways, it is going to clarify precisely what the position of each of the Portuguese parties, the Portuguese forces, will be when, for example, on Monday, 3 October, the possibility of the application of sanctions in the European Parliament is being discussed in the European Parliament, in particular by captivating Community funds to Portugal. We have already seen that PSD and CDS are excited about this possibility—and, indeed, they bring it several times for parliamentary debate and use it several times as a political argument and a weapon of shooting. This is for two essential reasons: because of the commitment that PSD and CDS have precisely with the interests that benefit from this type of budgetary instruments, such as sanctions that translate into cuts in Community funds, because the European wealth concentration project is shared and widely defended by these parties; and also because pettyness is such the way in which they view the political solution that was created at this time in Portugal deserves to sacrifice the interest of the Portuguese people on the pretext of valuing their own parties. The way they want to believe that these sanctions are a sanction to the government and not to the Portuguese is a kind of party battle that the PSD and the CDS try to stop, regardless of whether they are the Portuguese to be lost. And they haven't clarified yet, ladies. Members — the CDS will still speak, but they have every opportunity to do so — what is the position of the PSD and the CDS vis-à-vis the instrumentalization of sanctions and rules of the European Union to impose and blackmail the sovereignty organs and the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u63	Mr João Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Tiago, the context of the intervention you have made here today was very clear in your reply to the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, when you said that the European Union did not cease to have a solidarity project because you never had it. This is an entire vision of the Portuguese Communist Party, which knows perfectly well that the European Union project did not arise by chance. The European Union project emerged in a historical context where there were two major blocs at European level and where both blocs promised this prosperity and economic development. Now, after all these years, we can perfectly evaluate the block that Mr would subscribe to, which was the Soviet bloc, and the consequences for his people and their economies, and what was the development of the countries that have chosen democratically to build the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u66	It is good to have the notion of context of what it represents one thing and what it represents the other and we know that the Socialist Party, at the time, was also on the side of those who subscribed to the European project as a great alternative to what was the project of disrespect for individual freedoms and total economic failure, which was the Soviet project you subscribed to.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u68	And it is also interesting to see that all those countries which were subject to the Soviet regime wanted to join the European Union later or even wish to join the European Union — and at the will of their people, Mr President! Therefore, he said that these measures were imposed against the Portuguese people, remember that too. It is the will of many people in Eastern Europe that continues to make them want to join the European Union. You must therefore realize that the issue of the European Union is a matter for now. And so let us be very clear: the CDS has rejected these sanctions from the outset. The President of the CDS had the opportunity to write a very clear letter on this — and not now, but two months ago when the process started. I can now reiterate that, with regard to the suspension of funds, this measure is not only inadequate as stupid as it is. from the point of view of those who apply it, the European institutions do not realize that suspending the funds — which are a fundamental instrument for a country to be able to recover economically and that, from the European point of view, they are the most scoutable money by Europe in terms of national public investment — does not make any sense of this kind of attitude. Therefore, we are not only against; we explain why we are against and, excuse the presumption, we explain better than you do. It is that you live in a picture that is totally disconnected from reality,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... while we, as we live within the framework of reality, are able to say what it needs to be different within Europe so that Portugal will benefit from the solidarity that has always been the basis of the construction of the European project. But the honourable Member spoke about slaves, foremen and employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u69	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u70	I will finish, Madam President. Mr Miguel Tiago, about slaves, fortresses and employers, who is the foreman who proposes 25 € increase for minimum pensions and accepted an increase of less than 1 €? Oh, my God! Who is the foreman who spoke against tax increases and accepted increases in indirect taxes that brutally affect the lower and middle classes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u71	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u72	And who is the foreman, armed as boss, who refuses to apply IMI to the parties, but does not refuse to apply IMI anymore to the workers and the people? Oh, my God! Who's that foreman, armed with the boss, sir? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u73	To reply, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u74	Mr President, Mr João Almeida, I would also like to thank you for the questions you have raised. I would also tend to answer you, in a way, as I asked about responding to the PSD. It's just the way it avoids the concrete matter... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... and tries, through a diversion maneuver, to speak of everything less of the concrete question that is put here, is also revealing the commitment that is, in fact, the same commitment of the PSD,... [[PCP applause.]] ... because they were part of the same government, because they have applied the same measures, because they have defended them and because they have subjected the Portuguese people to a programme of impoverishment and aggravating exploitation which still has consequences today, consequences that are also the basis of this process of sanctions. The question, Mr. João Almeida, is not whether, more or less demagogicly, the CDS sends letters or comes here saying that it is a lot against sanctions in the European Union; the question is which side the CDS was at each time the European Union's architecture has been defined to allow these sanctions to be even equated. It is to come here to say "we are against sanctions, but we are very much in favour of the rules that allow them" is a hypocrisy that we hope that the Portuguese people too will quickly understand, penalise and make the CDS pay responsibility for this hypocrisy, which, in fact, is one of their main characteristics. And, Mr President, it is also strange that the CDS now, with all that force and vehemence with which you say it rejects sanctions, does not say that it rejects the instrumentation of the regulatory framework and the pressure and blackmail, because that is not what it rejects. The honourable Member says he rejects the application of sanctions because they are stupid, because they do not make sense, but he does not reject that there is a supranational institution that could be publicly blackmailing the Portuguese and the Portuguese Government at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u75	And applaud!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u76	...and the sovereign bodies, with possible sanctions, are more or less stupid, because it is the very framework, it is the very normative that allows sanctions to be applied. So that's what I should denounce as stupid, something that not only your party did not do as I wanted it to be in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u77	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u78	The honourable Member is part of a party that wanted these rules, which are now being acted against Portugal to apply sanctions, in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, by means of the 'gold rule' of the limitation to the deficit, that the CDS was indeed the main standard carrier. And, honourable Member, as regards IMI, we have already clarified: the CFP pays the IMI it must.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u79	Don't pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u80	It is not like the CDS, which has a seat leased to the Church and which, therefore, even if there were IMI for the parties, would not pay it. And even if it did not have a seat leased to the Church, the CDS, as it lives at the expense of the State, would pay the IMI with the money it receives from the State. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u81	Having completed the replies to all requests for clarification of the CFP's political declaration, we will continue with the Greens'political declaration. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: "To play with fire" is, let us agree, almost an euphemism, if applied to the "nuclear power plant" case in Almaraz. This nuclear power plant has been operating in part since 1981, and in full since 1983. Its two reactors are in everything similar to those of Three Mile Island, in the United States of America, where a brutal nuclear accident occurred in 1979. Almaraz expired in 2010, and without any reservation, his closure and dismantling was required. However, the Spanish Government, contrary to the intentions previously announced, decided to extend the operation of Almaraz, extending the business licence for another 10 years by 2020. This is nothing less than the oldest, absolutely obsolete Spanish nuclear power plant located just 100 km from the Portuguese border and which uses the waters of the Tejo River for cooling. Failures and deficiencies in the functioning of the Almaraz plant have occurred to dozens over the years and, as their activity is being forced, already with an expired technical and technological deadline, the normal thing is that it is going to be more prone to failures and that these occur in recurrent incidents that can at any time become very serious accidents and cases. Only in this year of 2016 were failures detected in the cooling pumps, there was a stop of one of the reactors, a fire in one of the power generators, detection of the use of defective parts in their generators and the completion of the Spanish authorities is always the same: it's all right, no reason for concern! This is, of course, a desire to make people crazy and demonstrates a huge irresponsibility that can result in dramas that we cannot subject ourselves to! In the face of this threat, the successive Portuguese governments have been very soft, not wanting to interfere with the decisions of the Spanish State. And what the Greens reaffirm is that this softness is unacceptable! If the Portuguese Government is to defend the interests of its people and its territory beyond global sustainability, it is not acceptable for it to maintain constantly passive behaviour in relation to the « Almaraz » case, which is virtually the mine walls with Portugal. It was known, however, that the Spanish Nuclear Security Council gave a favourable opinion on the installation of a temporary waste disposal warehouse from the Almaraz plant, which will occupy an area of about 3000 m2. This consortium project that explores this nuclear power plant, which integrates Endesa and Iberdrola, implies an investment that leads to believe that there is an even greater extension of the operating period of the Almaraz power plant, because the tanks where currently are stored the fuels used in reactors expire in 2019, so that this waste store is built until 2018. If this is not a clear indication that the continuation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant for many years is intended, please tell us what it is! In view of this situation, the Minister for the Environment informed the hearing held in the Committee on the Environment last Tuesday that the Portuguese Government called for an urgent meeting of the Spanish authorities. The Greens are very pleased that this urgent meeting is being held, which is only overdue. However, we call upon the Portuguese Government to have a mission from which it cannot be diverted and which is from the outset to fight for the fulfilment of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 107 / 2016, which recommends to the Portuguese Government an intervention with the Spanish Government for the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. What we want to say is that if the Portuguese Government contacts the Spanish authorities to say that Spain knows about the future of the nuclear power plant and that we, Portugal, are still concerned but we trust everything that Spain decides, little or nothing will be worth the urgency of the meeting. What the Portuguese Government should do is to express its total opposition to the construction of a temporary nuclear power plant waste and fuel warehouse and to state that the Almaraz nuclear reactors have already exceeded their validity period for several years and, to that end, it is crucial to remember that under the Madrid agreement between Portugal and Spain in February 2008 Portugal has an active word in relation to all this situation in Almaraz, because in a context of cross-border impacts we are not only entitled to a favour of information but to an effective participation in a decision-making process. The Almaraz nuclear power plant is a threat to the look, it is an imminent risk at any moment. In the event of an accident, we would have serious radioactive problems in Portuguese territory, and in the Tejo River with great particularity, destroying its biodiversity and so much that its stability represents for Portuguese. the Portuguese Government calls for this commitment to the Spanish Government and to the Portuguese citizens a certain statement with the Portuguese Government and also with the Spanish Government to ensure that the Portuguese people are attentive and determined, in the light of the principle of security and the principle of responsibility, to fight for the preservation of our lives and our natural heritage, free from nuclear threats. The Greens, which have been persisting in this struggle for more than 30 years, will continue untiringly, in and out of the Assembly of the Republic, for the progressive end of nuclear energy and for the concrete closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. If there is something that Fukushima, in 2011, taught us that serious nuclear accidents are not history of the past, but, yes, something very present that we all have the responsibility to fear and act accordingly. At the end of the nuclear threat they always count on the Greens. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and the honourable Member of BE Jorge Duarte Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u83	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members, to whom Mrs Heloísa Apolónia will answer together. First of all, to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u84	Madam President, very late for everyone. I now greet Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for bringing the issue of the Almaraz nuclear power plant here again. Let me say that the Greens are not alone in the struggle not only for the guarantee of the best conditions but also for the absence of any risk to this problem. As is known, and as has been mentioned, the Almaraz nuclear power plant has already taken more than 10 years beyond what would be its normal operating time. contrary to what was usually said to us, we now see that the Spanish Nuclear Safety Council came to assume that there were failures, among them in the cooling system, and others, which until recently did not take up Ora, this made all the pressure of public opinion grow, as well as the pressure of the Portuguese Government, to impose, as Mr Minister has said, an urgent meeting to discuss the matter. As regards the construction of the nuclear waste storage warehouse, the Spanish Government's positive opinion is not sufficient. It is necessary for Portugal to take a decision on this matter not only because it is established as a rule in the Madrid agreement but also because it is close to the Portuguese borders. Therefore, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, what I would like to assure you, on behalf of the Socialist Party, is that we accompany this concern and, as we have done so far, we will also keep ourselves alert so that nothing can happen and that the nuclear power plant in Almaraz, in the best of the results, can be closed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u85	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue to debate, a subject on which we share your concern. Yesterday, however, the PSD called for the first issue to be put in the hearing of the Minister for the Environment. It is true what the honourable Member says. In fact, the Almaraz nuclear power plant is only 100 km away from our border, its operating licence expired in 2010, there were several reports of incidents in its nuclear reactors, and the fact is that the parliamentary groups immediately warned Mr. The Greens, the PSD, the Block, all in general, warned Mr Minister. Furthermore, the Committee on the Environment of this House of the Republic unanimously adopted a resolution calling on the Government to take a position before the Spanish Government in the context of bilateral relations between Portugal and Spain, but the fact is that, in the following hearings, we heard the Minister saying that he was not doing anything to push the closure of the German power station and that the information he had obtained from Spain was reassuring. Even though being alerted by all parties, even if alerted with a draft resolution, which we unanimously approved in this House, the Minister chose to have a gambá position, which is a huge animal that, in the face of a situation of stress or danger, is thrown to the ground and is killed waiting for the danger to pass. And, in recent weeks, two more news has emerged: one, saying that in Almaraz parts are being used with a lack of quality, and another, as mentioned here, saying that there may be the assembly of a nuclear waste store. If the Minister, who so far was dead, has not ignored all of our warnings, now he says that the Portuguese State will intervene and Portugal will stress, together with the Kingdom of Spain, the rights it has. These were the words of the Minister at yesterday's hearing. After that, questioned whether we will follow up on our resolution, return to the Gambá position, reign the silence again. The truth is that it is a minister who is killed in the face of these situations which concern the Greens, but which also has unequivocal and unhesitating support from the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u87	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u88	I will now finish, Madam President. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the question I put to you is how the Greens assess the government's performance in this area so far and are satisfied with the Minister's position on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u89	To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u90	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, until yesterday, we had 35 years of absolute compliance by the governments of Portugal with the interests of the Spanish State and the shareholders of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, across the line. It was the first time that a Government presented a concrete initiative and gave guarantees of action to the Spanish State so that, on the continuity of operation and on the implementation of the plans of the shareholders and the Spanish State to the Almaraz Central, it would be a position, a brake and that the Portuguese State would have a voice and something to say about this process. The Espoo Convention was invoked, which recognises the right of the Portuguese State, in this case due to cross-border impacts which are undeniable in the prolongation of the useful life of the Almaraz Central, to pronounce itself, and therefore that the proceedings of this environmental impact assessment and public consultation process run. Our great concern relates precisely to the allusion made by the Minister at the hearing to the security guarantees he will seek from the Spanish State, which assumes that the Government is keeping open the possibility of accepting or complying with the continuity of the operation of this nuclear power plant. Well, there's no safe operation in a nuclear power station. There is no safe operation in an obsolete and obsolete nuclear power plant. There is no safe operation, even in a closed nuclear power plant, because the process in which it is dismantled is one of the most complex and dangerous of the life of a central power plant. Therefore, even if the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant was now decided, there would be no security guarantees that could be given to the Portuguese border population, which is the responsibility of the Portuguese Government to defend. Madam Member, given the knowledge and allusion you have made to the resolution adopted unanimously here in Parliament, which recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for closure — it is not for the security conditions! — of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, I ask you how you can see that it can be used by local associations, authorities, economic agents and members of the Assembly of the Republic, the opportunity to assess the environmental impact, the public consultation and this process now opened on the initiative of the Portuguese Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u91	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u92	How do you see that this process which is now being opened can be taken advantage of so that there is a major pronouncement in the country by the immediate closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and the security of populations is guaranteed? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u93	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, before referring to the usefulness of her speech, I would like to acknowledge the relevance of the topic and therefore to comply with it. in bringing the debate to this typical and important issue on ecology, the honourable Member justifies the role, since she is a Member of the Green Party. I am not criticizing this; on the contrary, I am praising it. Madam Member, I would like to tell you that, from the point of view of the matter and the concern, we all agree. For some reason, this Parliament will have unanimously adopted a draft resolution which seeks, even more than dialogue or more than negotiation, the closure of the Almaraz power plant, which is obvious. It is not up to us, of course, to define the energy policy of our neighbours or other European countries — in Portugal, we do not use nuclear energy and, indeed, I think that most of us, which is unanimous and that we agree on this, do not even defend the existence of nuclear energy in Portugal — so we cannot prevent the Spaniards from having their own policy. This is a question—and what has been said here is not rigorous—recurrent and has already been passed by many Portuguese governments. And the dialogue between the Portuguese governments, such as requests for clarification and requests for information that are being made, and the Spanish governments have always existed. Now, the question is slightly different and it has to do with three things: with the deadline of validity of this plant and the risks it entails; with such a deposit of nuclear material and potentially toxic at the Portuguese border; and with the security conditions of the plant itself with the question of whether it is safe, whether the material used is necessary or not. Having said that, and all agreeing on this matter, I would like to say to the honourable Member that this is a matter of sovereignty, it is a question of dialogue between Portugal and Spain and it is a matter of foreign policy. It is therefore up to the Portuguese Government to guarantee that sovereignty and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u95	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u96	And it is therefore the Portuguese Government that has to give us an answer, regardless of good will and votes. If the honourable Member wishes to present a vote already on Friday, we will vote in favour and even subscribe to the same vote. Regardless of what this House decides, and decided unanimously, regardless of the pressure of the Portuguese and the protection of the Tagus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u97	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u98	... in particular this one which is a concern of the Member of the Socialist Party Maria da Luz Rosinha, who so well knows the Tejo, is the government that has to act. I would like to ask you, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, how far the Greens go about this. That the Left Block will accept whatever the government is! The PCP will say: "One is with the kisses and another is with the legs! », but it will also accept. Are you willing, or are you not, to be more demanding with the government, to be more demanding with the Minister and, if necessary, to criticise the government whether this meeting, which is a good initiative, does not produce concrete results? That's what we want to know. on our part, we'll be demanding. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u99	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u100	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who asked me questions. Mr Telmo Correia, The Greens are demanding on this matter, there is no doubt, but it is not only, I am sorry, « thirty-one mouth». And that is because there are Members who speak a lot when the government is not here, and even sometimes when the government is there, but then when it is to take concrete measures and even very vehement positions with the government, there is a little more silence than we do, Mr President. Therefore, in this regard, I think that you have no doubt that the Greens will be very serious. In fact, I think that in my speech I have even been very clear in saying that the Greens do not make an urgent request for a meeting to Spain, about Almaraz, to go there and say that we are very concerned. No, no, it's to demand our own rights. What the Madrid protocol of 2008 tells us is that we have the right to participate in a decision-making process. And we cannot abdicate from him, as is evident. It is something that the Portuguese Government must take into account in addition to the fact that, by representing the interests of Portugal and Portuguese, it must manifest itself and must express itself, in accordance with the resolution adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, the desire of Portugal, which is that that nuclear power station is closed for the safety of Portuguese and in accordance with a principle of responsibility which the Government must have. This is our position. We have no doubt about that. Mr Jorge Costa, I think we all have a responsibility to be involved in this issue. Everyone: the Portuguese Government, of course, according to its responsibilities; the Assembly of the Republic, which has also had a very important intervention in this area; and all Portuguese citizens and all the authorships, which, together, can manifest themselves at the most different stages on this issue. This is because the voice of the Portuguese people is, of course, a form of pressure on the Portuguese Government and on the Spanish Government which I think is extremely important, in accordance with our rights of participation at the most different levels. Mr Bruno Coimbra, it is true that on Tuesday we had that conversation with the Minister and that the Minister gave us the news that he had called for an urgent meeting in Spain. But, Mr President, we agree that, regardless of the colour of the governments that have changed, of the parties that have alternated with the government, you know that I am right when I say that there has been a passivity and an almost absurd silence in this matter. And the strength of conviction, regarding the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and its dangers to Portugal and, in particular, to the Tejo River, has not been overcome by the various Portuguese governments to Spain, and we believe that it is time for that to happen. That is why we will, of course, be vigilant in what the Minister of the Environment will say there, because he must explain to Parliament and, therefore, he must come here later to tell the outcome of the initiative he has taken. Mrs Rosinha, there is only one guarantee that nothing will happen if there is the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and its dismantling. From there we can breathe relief. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u101	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the political statements. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: EUR 713 million — I repeat, EUR 713 million! — is the amount of late payments of the hospitals of the National Health Service, determined in August. An increase of EUR 262 million since the current government took possession: EUR 32 million per month; EUR 1 million per day. In homologous terms, comparing August 2015 with 2016, late payments from SNS increased EUR 244 million, and we compared here only what is comparable. How, then, is it possible that in such a short time the government has increased its hospital debt? But in terms of total SNS debt, the situation is even more serious. The total debt to suppliers should now exceed EUR 1500 million, an increase of more than 20 % in less than one year. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, only with regard to medicines, debt has risen to EUR 820 million. Until, this irresponsible left, will it continue to disrupt the enormous effort that the Portuguese have made to save the SNS? As a result of the last summary of budget implementation published this week by the Directorate-General for Budget ( DGO ), which in August of this year the SNS balance was less than EUR 20 million, representing a deterioration of EUR 2, 6 million compared to the same period. It is the DGO itself to recognize that things are not going well! And here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to be very clear: in recent years we have all made too many sacrifices for history to repeat again. The National Health Service is too important to ensure that the financial irresponsibility of a social-communist government can ultimately undermine the regular functioning of public health services and thus the citizens' own access to health care. And who says it isn't just the PSD. The recent international reports also point to a growing concern about the spillover into health accounts. In fact, it is regrettable to see the European Commission, in its recent report on the 4th post-Assistance mission, after recognizing that the sustainability of the health care system has improved significantly since 2011, to note that the debts that have been payable more than 180 days have increased since 2016, especially in the health sector, where it identifies among others an increase of EUR 155 million in the debts of public hospitals. In view of this reality, it is worrying to see high officials of the Ministry of Health, after they have argued that it would be good this year to have a amending budget, because they recognize that the government has not guarded the replacement of wages, nor at 35 hours, come to say, and I quote, « (...) although the stock of late payments has increased, it is far from the ceilings reached in the past». If this government does not urgently recognise that the accumulation of debts, in this obsession of 'we do not pay', is a mistake, the country will pay very much for it! We, PSD, are well aware of the effort we made with the Portuguese between 2011 and 2015, paying more than 2000 million debts of the National Health Service and thus avoiding its financial collapse, which is why we cannot remain indifferent to this disqualification. That is why we tabled a draft resolution yesterday, in which we recommend that the Government reduce the amount of debts. And through this initiative, we have also urged the Government to pursue a policy of financial rigour and investment in resource management. More, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this draft resolution we are still talking about investment. Currently, as we know, there is no investment in the SNS. We are becoming, as a permanent announcement of any Council of Ministers, with another wonderful package of promises, and contrary to what has happened in recent years, in which, despite the financial difficulties that we all know, seven new hospitals and 166 new family health units have entered into operation. Even last year, two linear accelerators were purchased for the Portuguese Institute of Oncology (IPO) in Lisbon, thus enabling more than 20,000 cancer treatments annually and serving more than 52 000 patients. But in 2016, in this year's budget, there was from now on a 12 % fall in investment compared to 2015. After eight months, this investment is falling 23 % for the 2015 same period, i.e. almost twice as much as expected. The gentlemen today, basically, pay wages and nothing else! And the gentlemen. Members of this new social-communist majority? You who, every day, demanded more public investment in the SNS, now that this investment falls peak, silence reigns! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u103	How is it possible to thus betray the principles they once defended? Oh, my God! How is it possible to deceive so much who chose you? Oh, my God! They fill their mouths with public investment, but they lose their minds when your government cuts into investment in the SNS twice as much of the budget as you approved and applauded. But, Madam President and Mrs and Mrs. Members, the PSD also presented another draft resolution recommending that the Government reduce the use of so-called 'training doctors'. We know that costs for the provision of medical services decreased from EUR 130 million in 2010 to EUR 80 million in 2015. It happens that, despite the sweet words of the current Minister of Health with his new left-wing friends only in the first half of this year, the SNS spent more than 47 million euros on these services. But even here, no one hears us! They are now just a shadow of the past, accommodated in the vertigo of a command they never dreamed of and which, no doubt, never deserved. The partners in the current situation have only one desire: to remain in power. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u104	The PSD clearly understands that in the SNS the use of doctors through the provision of services should continue to be disincentived, as has happened in recent years. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives presented by the PSD here should be peaceful in this House. Both advocate good management of the public health system. Both defend patients and taxpayers. We shall see, of course, that without great illusions, as will be, at this autumn time, the democratic tolerance of the parties of this government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u105	I inform the honourable Member that you have four requests for clarification from PS, the Left Block, the CDS-PP and the PCP. Question : How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u106	Two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u107	All right. So, to ask for clarification, Mr. António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u108	Madam President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, until I understand that the budgetary performance of this government and the budgetary consolidation trajectory that put the deficit in 2, 8 % made the PSD forget the deficit. Now the devil is no longer the deficit; now the devil is the debt. Debt is diabolical. And when debt enters its budgetary consolidation path, another macroeconomic variable will appear any to diabolize. Unfortunately, we are getting used to this persistent culture of negativity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u109	But, Mrs. Ángela Guerra, I already have more difficulty in understanding your lack of budgetary rigour. It was important for the honourable Member to show the chart that allows all Portuguese to see that the estimate of the deficit presented at the beginning of the year, which was 30 million, amounted to 371, 8 million, which means a 10-fold increase. This is the starting point. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the starting point is what I just mentioned, the point of arrival is that in August 2016, the budget deficit is 20 million. It is the real rescue of the budget deficit. [[PS laughter.]] Also curiously, Mrs. Member, I realized that there was no oversale or concern of the PSD when, in full "clean output" from 2014 to 2015 — that "clean output" we all know — the debts to SNS suppliers increased from 1700 million to 2079 million,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u110	... the net result of the exercise went from - 267 million to - 407 million,... [[I didn't care anymore!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u111	... or, moreover, short-term third-party debt passed from 2014 to 2015 from 1928 million to 2251 million, or also, Mrs. Deputy Ángela Guerra, when in 2015 the payment period of the Santarém District Hospital was 523 days, that of the Setúbal Hospital was 424 days, that of the Northern Lisbon Hospital was 380 days, that of the 324-day Middle Tejo. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Madam Member, we are talking about budgetary rigour. But, ladies and gentlemen, to rest it, I must say that these are not really the concerns of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u112	You have to finish. Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u113	I'm done now, Madam President. The Portuguese have other kinds of concerns. The major concerns are the global moderate rates that have decreased, which have allowed access to health to more than 1 million Portuguese. The main concerns are the transition of 1, 2 million users without a family doctor to 500 000 users. The major concerns are the USF (family health units) that were created, the more than 3000 professionals who were hired,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u114	Please put the matter down, Mr President. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u115	... services that were accredited and 20 % transplants of the first half. This is where the big worries are. Madam Member, the PS makes serious reflections on this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u116	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u117	Mrs. Member, I ask: is the PSD coming to play in the next Budget? What political priorities, what new models of funding, what social sensitivity does the PSD have for these matters? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u118	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u119	Madam President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, I was listening to her and I was thinking that Mrs. Deputies would not tell the previous government of the PSD / CDS-PP. [[Oh! Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u120	That's for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u121	What would you not say when the previous government increased moderate rates by more than 100 %, for example? What I wouldn't say when there was a State Secretary of your government who, seeing hospitals crowded with monkeys, said: « They are well installed! They're well installed! "? What would you not say when the previous government published portals that involved a widespread closure of valences in hospitals or, at the end of the day, offices that closed emergency services? What would you not say when, with all the austerity that applied to the National Health Service, the year 2015 ended with a deficit of 372 million euros? To a double deficit, for example, what would the honourable Member not say? The honourable Member has spoken of people or parliamentary groups who have lost their minds. I think whoever lost his mind in the last term was even the PSD and CDS-PP. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] On losing your mind, the honourable Member knows well what you're talking about, because no one heard her say anything while the previous government cut down on health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u122	No one said anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u123	Now we know that the PSD has decided to present a draft resolution, whose title is: « It recommends that the Government continue the policy of former executives in order to manage with responsibility and investment the resources of the National Health Service ». It can only be funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u124	It's very serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u125	It can only be funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u126	No, it's not, it's very serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u127	Follow the policy of the former Executive in order to manage the SNS with responsibility? Oh, my God! With responsibility? Oh, my God! [[Yes, yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u128	Is that how the former Executive managed with responsibility? Oh, my God! [[Yes! Yes!]] [[Yes! Yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u129	But how? Delivering the SNS to the private? Oh, my God! [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] Was that the way to manage with responsibility? Oh, my God! Was it hindering users' access to health care? Oh, my God! Is that how they managed with responsibility? Oh, my God! But how? Uninvestment? Oh, my God! By forcing the material in hospitals, for four years, to become obsolete? Oh, my God! Is that how they managed with responsibility? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u130	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u131	I will finish, Madam President. Was he expelling 3000 doctors from the SNS, pushing them to the private and doing a bleeding in the National Health Service? Oh, my God! Is that how they managed with responsibility? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u132	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u133	I shall finish, Madam President, by telling the honourable Member that we already understand what Mr Pedro Passos Coelho said when he announced the devil for September. The devil is in these projects with which the PSD wants to return to the past and to the policy of destruction of public services. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u134	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Angela War.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u135	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions put to me by the honourable Members. Deputies Antonio Sales and Moisés Ferreira. I begin by answering in particular Mr António Sales' questions. Do you want to talk about starting points? I don't know who the graphics you presented here are.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u136	São do Instituto Nacional de Statística (INE )!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u137	... but to evaluate by the last ones I saw here by Mr. Prime Minister, only checking who they are is that I am certain of the statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u138	They're from INE!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u139	The honourable Member has come here to talk about a deficit. Regarding the deficit — we have already told the Minister on Tuesday — I think you must know something very important: who closed the 2015 accounts was Minister Adalberto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u140	Two months!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u141	The accounts of December 2015, where Minister Adalberto 'infia' — between quotes — with more than EUR 140 million solely of his responsibility, are accounts for the deficit. One more thing: the honourable Member also heard the PSD referring to the Minister who had that strange mechanism, on which we asked several questions he never answered, which was the cost anticipation of the new medicine for hepatitis C. You see? It had costs, but to avoid appearing in 2015 they passed to 2016. It's the same thing for the profits... [[It's a trick!]] [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u142	It's a trick! And the same thing happens for the transfer of profits: the APIFARMA agreement goes to January, which is not to stay in December. With regard to points of departure, do you want to talk about points of departure? Total debt: in November 2015, EUR 1220 million; in July 2016 — at this time we had not yet had the August data, they were not yet available on the portal – to assess for this debt, EUR 1500 million, as I said of the rostrum. You don't deny any of this that I say, on the contrary. In fact, it is not just us saying things: today, there has been a news that Dr. Correia de Campos — I don't know if he knows who he is... — an ex-Minister of yours has come to recognize the spill in health commitments. You recognize it, but in the right socialist way, you don't care much about it either. What's bothering you, look at it! , is the « centralizing drift... » of this government, «...that everything swallows, decapitates managers, disincentives the services. » Here's what Mr. Correia de Campos says!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u143	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u144	In addition, we still have a report that tells us exactly the opposite of all that Mr António Sales says and also what Mr Moisés Ferrira has said, for example that the INEM fleet has had a 60-percentage increase, that the number of exemptions from moderate rates has increased. And see who made this report! Mr. Minister Adalberto! It is Mr Adalberto who highlights this balance sheet, which shows a widespread improvement in people's accessibility to health care and services. It is Mr. Minister who says that this, between 2011 and 2015, has improved. Look at that, sir! Mr. Moisés Ferreira, it is no joke what I said from the rostrum, what is funny is that, indeed, now— in his district, Aveiro, there were still 7-hour rows on Monday and in Oliveira de Azemés it seems that the oxygen was missing. And now there's no candy! Nobody hears you! Everybody shut up! What was the PSD priority? Save the SNS as well as the rest of the country from bankruptcy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u145	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u146	Madam President, I welcome Mrs. Angela Guerra for bringing this issue to discussion and clearly saying that the CDS wants a health pact, but that the CDS is not available to contribute to the silence pact... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u147	... that they have tried to whiteen the reality of the serious problems that exist in health in our country, with documents attesting it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u148	That's what you've done for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u149	I repeat that it has not been for months now that the CDS has been alerting us to these problems, often questioning the Minister's concern about this reality. In fact, we have made an appeal here to the Government on health policies and we have put forward proposals. So we are the first, and for some time now, alerting to a problem that must effectively concern the Portuguese. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] You will certainly listen to me with the same respect that I have heard. The scenario in health is known, it's factual. There are still days in committee when the CDS asked the Minister about the increasing debts of the SNS, and we do so because we are concerned about a reality, which is factual, and therefore speaking of it has nothing to do with it, Mr Deputies. Talking about her has nothing to do with diabolization! Furthermore, our concern is that, if we do not talk, we return to a scenario that has led us to bankruptcy, with a debt of EUR 3000 million and that at nothing should pride these benches, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Therefore, ignoring growing debts in the SNS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u150	That's what you guys did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u151	... to ignore the increase in the supply of services, to ignore the impossibility of new investments is to contribute to returning to a scenario that, I think, no one wants to see repeat. It is essential to speak of this reality and to demand that it not return to the past. We do not want it to return to the past and, indeed, we find it strange that, in the face of problems such as strike announcements, there is a lack of recruitment of human resources...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u152	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u153	...and cancellation of debts, benches that once cried out against destruction and dismantling today demand a deafening silence. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u154	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u155	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u156	In conclusion, Madam President, I ask Mrs. Angela Guerra if, in view of this scenario, the inability to replace obsolete equipment, we are waiting for a fourth magical quarter, in which everything will be resolved, or if, indeed, the Portuguese have reason to be concerned about socialist governance in health. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u157	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u158	Madam President, Mrs. Angela War, who hears it and who hears it! [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] During the four years of the previous Government, when the CFP here posed the problems of professionals, de-investment, non-renewal of equipment, the hiring of undertakings for temporary work, what was the honourable Member doing? Shut up! I'd keep my foot quiet! [[PSD protests and laughter.]] But the honourable Member is very wrong! You are very mistaken and very distracted, because the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party has put the problems and the honourable Member knows very well that we say, and we have always said, that the PSD/CDS-PP government has had a huge responsibility in the situations that are currently being experienced in the National Health Service. Mrs Deputy, I am going to stir up your memory again — in fact, I did it on Tuesday, but it seems that Mrs Deputy is a little forgotten: there is a debt today in the supplies of the National Health Service that dates back to 2014. It is not the PCP that says so; it is the association of companies linked to the supply of oxygen to domestic patients who say there has been unsalted debt since 2014. And who was the government in 2014? PSD and CDS-PP. Madam Member, this does not mean that we underestimate this problem; this is, in fact, a problem with which the SNS is facing. But, Mrs Deputy, where were the PSD and the CDS when the PCP presented successive proposals for strengthening investment in the SNS? Where were they? What did the PSD do? He has voted against systematically! What did the CDS and the PSD do when we presented several times here the replacement of the hiring of temporary workers by permanent and right-based working links? PSD and CDS voted against! Who hears it and who hears it, Your Honor! But here we are, Mrs Deputies, to say that, in fact, the problems of the SNS are not today, they are not now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u159	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u160	I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that the problems of the SNS come by far, come from a further underfunding by PSD and CDS-PP, which did nothing, contrary to what, shamelessly, the honourable Member here said, i.e., that it had been to save the SNS. [[PSD protests.]] Don't! What they did was destroy, dismantle and weaken users, professionals and the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u161	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Angela War.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u162	Madam President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, thank you very much for the questions you asked me. Indeed, we have many reasons to be concerned about this situation in the SNS, which is why, as you know, we presented these three draft resolutions and decided to choose this issue to debate here today. As for the questions that Mrs Carla Cruz has asked me, and I do not see them as questions themselves, I must say the following: shameless, on my land, is the one who does not pay debts. What our government did was pay EUR 3000 million of debts, which is what you left in your previous government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] With regard to the analogy of the pio, which I made of the rostrum, perhaps they did not really like it, but those who talked about the kiss and the legs here were not the PSD — I don't know if you remember — it was a colleague of yours a few days ago. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u163	Mrs Deputy, as regards 'who hears it and who hears it', I must say that, by the 13th and 14th of October, a strike of nurses is announced. But there has already been a strike of nurses in Barcelos, Guimarães and Guarda... [[And very well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u164	...and I don't remember the honourable Member saying anything in the Health Committee. I didn't hear her, look at her! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I was hearing bad! [[Protests of PCP Members.]] It seems that pharmacists are not very pleased with Mr. Minister's announcement, which has come to say that careers are no longer for 2016, are only for 2017, and let's see if there is money. I didn't hear about that either! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mrs. Deputy, it seems that the hospital in São José has dropped ceilings and that in Aveiro the emergencies are bad. I didn't hear her talk about it either! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u165	Last year the ceilings were good and now they fell!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u166	Madam President, you don't like to hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u167	You're right, Mrs. Member. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they create conditions so that you can hear the honourable Member as well as the honourable Member heard them when the questions were put.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u168	Thank you, Madam President. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u169	Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today there has been news of a suspension of the fund for research, amounting to EUR 1 million. They noted that it was intended to finance research activities and projects aimed at protecting, promoting and improving people's health. I repeat, 1 million euros! Look, I didn't hear anyone! There are no bombs this time, or anywhere if you hear them claiming anything. With regard to the rationalization of health care, the limitations of access, instrumentalization and, of course, dismantling — and I have already mentioned this in the Health Committee, but it is never too much to repeat, even for the Portuguese, at home, to listen — have you heard of the "controller" of finances? It seems that they do not trust the accounts of the Minister of Health and have now put a gentleman to account. That's why Dr. Correia de Campos is talking about beheading managers. That must be why! And I can't hear you say anything about this! But I have not heard anything about that non-news, which Mr. Minister says it is a non-news, but it was the President of the Central Health System Administration of ACSS who said that it is best to have a guardian for patients who abuse emergencies. What now? Oh, my God! Now there is no rationalization of health care, no dismantling, no restriction on access! Mrs. Member, who heard you and who heard you! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u171	For a political statement, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a time when Portugal, in about two weeks, will be aware of the proposal for a State Budget, it is important to bring to this House the prospects that are being met for 2017 and how in 2016 it was possible to build the solid foundations to continue the effort of budgetary consolidation, in a framework of reintroduction of income and promoting economic growth and employment. For the country, for the Portuguese, it is important to stress that, despite all the warnings of storms that the opposition will make, the international organizations of the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) to the OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, through the European Commission, wait for Portugal a year of 2017 better than this year that has not yet ended.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u173	Worse it's impossible!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u174	Even the most skeptical have been announcing more growth for 2017 than in 2016, with the particular aspect that they record an economically virtuous combination of strengthening investment and exports, even saying the Banco de Portugal that after a year of 2016 where extraordinary or non-repetitive events occurred in 2017, the Portuguese economy will have a robust growth of exports, increasing the openness of the Portuguese economy, with a decrease in unemployment, the deficit of public administrations and the public debt ratio in GDP. It is never too much to emphasise: if there is unanimity in all the analyses that are made about the Portuguese economy it is that the year 2017 will be better than the year 2016, with more growth, more investment and more exports. But these expectations are not the work of chance. First, as the PS has always said, in a heavily indebted country with little scope for public and private investment, the proper implementation of Community funds is a fundamental aspect. I said that in 2011, in 2012, in 2013 and 2015. We warned about the need to adequately support the transition between Community frameworks, but once again, as in other areas, the PSD/CDS Government has failed both in programming and in regulation, even in the management elements of the incentive system, which were not prepared for the start of Portugal 2020. The low financial performance, almost two years after starting this Community framework, illustrates how early work has not been done. Let me give another illustration: Portuguese SMEs waited one and a half years for the new competitions for internationalization projects, waited two years for a decision and the first payments were already made by this Government in 2016. Two years late! And two years of delay underlined by Mr President of the Republic, still this September. The PSD and CDS claim more investment, but apply the motto « does what I say, do not do what I do », « does what I did not do ». It's a case to say, sirs. Members of the PSD and the CDS : welcome to the consensus of growth and employment, after four years to defend impoverishment and austerity at any cost. Welcome to this national consensus! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2017, it will be possible to accelerate the implementation of Community funds. After the work that has been done, we can even say that, after what this government has done in 2016 to speed up the implementation of the Community funds and after some events, such as stopping the refinery or a car assembly line, 2017 will be a year with more investment and more exports. But it will be with more investment and exports for a political option of this government and for what is included as a political priority in the Government Programme and the Socialist Party Election Programme. And unfortunately, it is not just a year with more investment because, to a large extent, the inheritance of this government was an execution of Community funds stopped. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party and the XXI Constitutional Government always presented investment and promotion of the integration of Portuguese companies into international value chains as a political priority. The PS reaffirms its confidence in a country that creates investment opportunities and job creation, with greater value for work and capital, rejecting the fatality of impoverishment, erosion of labour rights and the tax base as the only way to survive the challenges facing the country in the global economy and belonging to the euro area. With the work oriented — drawn up in the Government Programme, the Stability Programme, the National Reform Programme and the Great Plan Options (GOP) for the Budget and for the year 2017 — Portugal will continue to create conditions for creating wealth, investment and employment in this country. Mr. Prime Minister announced here the GOPs, but we also know that these Great Plan Options are a contradiction to what the PSD and CDS propose in the 2015 – 2019 Stability Program. in this Stability Program, it was once again proposed to cut pensions and once again proposed a rate of income replacement slower than that which this government is executing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal needs people and investment and, in PS, we have an advantage: we do not need to oppose ourselves. We have always said that there is another way and, in the PS, we have the advantage of being able to do what we have said, fulfilling what we promise the Portuguese, fulfilling the agreements signed with our partners and fulfilling the international commitments of the Portuguese State. This is the Government Programme, this is the PS Programme and this alternative, which you do not want to recognize, which is being implemented in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But welcome to the consensus on investment, job creation and promotion of well-being in Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u175	Mr Brilhante Dias, I inform you that four Mrs have entered. Members to make requests for clarification, so I ask you how you want to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u176	Individually, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u177	So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u178	Mr President, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, in fact, when I heard him, I was no doubt left: yesterday's debate went even badly to the Socialist Party. The urgent debate on economics and investment went so badly to the Socialist Party that they gave it this difficult task to get back what went wrong yesterday. And perhaps that's why you just had one solution: getting here, going to the gallery and talking about 2017, 2017, 2017... Mr, 2020 is what it will be! Let's go back to 2016, which is the year we're living in. And indeed, in this regard, you have had an opportunity that you have wasted in order to be able to correct some of the misgivings that have come to the public. Through whom? two of us. Members of the Government and its supporters — how startling! — they still want to mix different realities and compare data that are not comparable. With regard to employment, Mr President, we look at the unemployment drop data which has been occurring since 2013. But let us look at the fine mesh: let us look at the results of net job creation, the balance between those entering the labour market and those coming out. In the second quarter of 2016 and not 2017, as you have often mentioned, you have created 21 700 jobs. It is good, Mr. Commissioner, we are pleased! But when we compare these numbers with the numbers of the second quarter of 2015, at the time of our government, they tell us the same sources, the INE, which have been created 66,200 jobs, net jobs, net jobs. It's more than triple, sir! How do you explain this? Are we unfortunately not faced with a slowdown in the creation of net employment? We are also talking about public investment, Mr. You used public investment as one of the highest during the election campaign. That was one of the touchstones of the difference between your government and ours. They said it, but they didn't! After all, you're the ones who say and don't! As soon as your government budget proposal for 2016 the amount entered for public investment was lower by 4, 9 % than the words of the 2015 State budget ; that is, your starting point was below the one we had. More: let's look at the execution. In fact, when we look at the National Account, we find that public investment in 2016, not 2017, fell 27 % compared to 2015. What about total investment? For 2015, the fall is 2, 9 %, Mr. These are the numbers! But we compare with what happened in the first and second quarters of 2015, at the time of the PSD/CDS government : the investment increased by 8, 9 % and 5 %, 9 % respectively. I am saying again: today, in the second quarter or, better, at the end of the first half of 2016, which is the year in which we are, has fallen 2, 9 %. That is why 'the boot does not beat the partridge', forgive me the expression, Mr President! One thing is what they say, another thing is what is actually happening. What about internal demand, another of the axes that you said were decisive?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u179	Mr President, I ask you to conclude because you have clearly benefited from a distraction from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u180	I will finish, Madam President. In the context of domestic demand, Mr President, it is also obvious that the execution is far from what you have thought, very precisely, and it is probably due to something that has already been mentioned: hospitals now hire, but do not pay. And only in hospitals are more than 250 million euros,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u181	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u182	... that suppliers are needed, which are the companies. I shall finish, Madam President, with a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u183	Stop right there, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u184	Mr President, if everything is so positive, why is it that for 2017, the year you have so often mentioned, you do not propose a tax drop? Why is it necessary to raise taxes in 2017? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u185	To reply, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u186	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, I thank you for your questions, but let me tell you that I am talking about 2017 precisely because, and I said from the rostrum, we are two weeks away from having here the delivery of our State Budget for 2017 and at the moment it is important to look at what the international institutions say, particularly at a time when they already know the Stability Programme. And what they actually say is that if in 2016 we are going to have a growth that will be in line with what has been said by the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u187	Less than 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u188	... 2017 will be better.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u189	That's futurology! We are in 2016!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u190	Will this be amazing? It is not surprising because you did not want to listen carefully to what I said about the implementation of Community funds in 2016 and how you left the programming of Portugal 2020. You still want to talk about 2016 a little bit like you did with what I call "Marão Tunnel Syndrome". You have used three fundamental verbs, with regard to public investment, for four years: stop, freeze, block. One of the works that blocked was that of the Marão Tunnel, and they did -in 2011, with more costs for the taxpayers. Then, at the end of the party, they executed, running, the Marão Tunnel, happily for the transmountans. Therefore, the difference we have today in the variation in gross fixed capital formation is essentially in the building item, because Portugal 2020, due to your poor programming, has more difficulty in running and because in the first half of 2015 you carried out a work that lasted for four years. The gentlemen froze, blocked, stopped the Marão Tunnel and came to talk about public investment, as if your brand, which is the Marão Tunnel, was worth it. Mr Emídio Guerreiro, you speak of 2016 because you first know that you have left the country blocked, without being able to implement Community funds, particularly in the inter-municipal communities and in the authorities—just talk to the autarchs—and, secondly, they have executed the end of the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework) in 2015, because, as you know, from a financial point of view, the QREN can be executed in the following two years. This is your speech, which is made on the basis of a fallacy. It is the "Marão Tunnel Syndrome". But be careful, Mr. Deputy, ends on 31 December, and the same values at the beginning of 2017 will show that the PS and the Government Programme are right. The country has even another way—and that is what you fear—that not the austerity of the cost, that of cutting in public investment, that of cutting in everything that concerns public investment and public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u191	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u192	Madam President, I shall conclude by making a small allusion to an issue raised by Mr Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u193	The honourable Member is also having the same benefit as Mr Emídio Guerreiro on the distraction of the Bureau. If we continue like this, we won't leave here today. Can't you leave that allusion for the next answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u194	Madam President, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro would be on the lookout and I don't want to leave it on the wait. Mr President, yesterday the debate went so well with the Minister for Economic Affairs that you had to come with the "heavy artillery" at the end. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u195	Yesterday, what was proved was basically that you had to try to save, at the end, without contradiction, what you did not succeed during the debate. That was, essentially, what happened yesterday! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u196	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor, to whom I ask to respect the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u197	Mr President, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, the CFP values and contributes actively and actively to a path of recovery of income, living conditions, economic activity for workers, for populations, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And, as you know — in fact, we reaffirmed yesterday in the plenary — the dynamisation of investment is a central and indisputable issue, without which the uncertainty of the environment always ends up imposing itself on our economy and on the promotion of employment with rights. The CFP continues to emphasise and draw attention to the specific public investment problem after the collapse we had with the previous government. It should be stressed that the most recent developments—and already at this plenary session the CFP referred to them—are evidence of the inconclusive nature of submission to European Union taxes and a policy capable of responding solidly and coherently to national problems. As the CFP has stated, regardless of the response to more immediate problems, the size of public debt and its charges, the taxes associated with the Stability and Growth Pact, the budgetary treaty, the Economic and Monetary Union, the monopoly area on the bank and the rest of the economy, among others, are barriers to any intention to tackle and break, more decisively, the options and policies that have been responsible for the path of national decline and backwardness. The weak economic growth, after the brutal breakdown during the previous government, the slowdown in the pace of imports and exports, the continued devaluation of public investment or the tender progress in job creation, bear witness to the limitations resulting from the option not to break off external constraints and the interests of monopolistic capital — limitations that are placed on the indispensable political response to ensure the affirmation of a developed and sovereign Portugal. However, the trust that can and should be designed with regard to the future and the path to be taken by the people and the country, by our economy, needs to be undermined by these models of development or, better, by denial of development, which we have had over the years. And this is the question that we are asking you: to what extent does the honourable Member think that it is conciliable, that it is attainable, that level of investment, growth and development, that the country needs 'as bread for the mouth', in view of the constraints, blackmails and threats that have been constantly placed in our future? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u198	To reply, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u199	Madam President, I thank you for the question. Mr President, public investment and investment in Portugal are central issues for the development of the country and, to a large extent, the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party share this desire, so that the country can renew the fixed capital it has, creating better conditions for creating jobs with rights, but better employment. As regards the question of investment raised by the honourable Member — and I am responding in part to what has been raised by Mr Emídio Guerreiro — I must say that in 2007 gross fixed capital formation in Portugal is worth more than EUR 40 billion. During the PSD/CDS government, the value of gross fixed capital formation fell to almost half. [[And now he's back down!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u200	And he's going to come down more!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u201	And it came down even at that time when Minister Vítor Gaspar reprogrammed QREN to cover current expenditure and decreased in investment and capital expenditure. It's numbers that you guys are. Members can easily consult the Banco de Portugal series. There is one issue that the Socialist Party stresses: we believe that Portugal will have better conditions to create wealth and employment within the euro area and that, with constraints, we must fight every day to make these constraints smaller. Every day we fight to have, for example, a different solution to investment to know how that investment should be analysed under the excessive deficit procedure. But, Mr. Deputy, public investment in 2016 has an original sin: bad programming of funds during the mandate of the PSD and the CDS. There's no giving again. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Bad programming, underlined by Mr. President of the Republic, means that in 2016, autoarchs, inter-municipal communities, the State, have to launch projects, have to make competitions, which consumes time for good execution. I am going to give you an example: yesterday, the Secretary of State for Energy made that reference. Mr. Secretary of State for Energy said: « We had to solve problems in Brussels, of a regulatory nature, to launch the competition ». This government has been in office for 10 months. You were in 2012, in 2013, in 2014 and 2015 in the government and this was the circumstance, this was the situation in which you left the country : they executed the QREN programmed by a socialist government and left Portugal 2020 without conditions of implementation in 2016. This is a brand of this government, it is a brand that we are trying to change and that we are going to change in 2017. That is why, surely, we will all be here in 2017 to see how public investment and growth in Portugal will be virtuous. There will be more public investment, but also more exports. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u202	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u203	Madam President, I begin by congratulating Mr Eurico Brillante Dias on bringing to the debate a reflection on a variable that is absolutely decisive for the future of the country, which is investment. It is a bit of a matter to resume yesterday's discussion and I believe that there are several issues, both in yesterday's and today's discussions, which can provide a better explanation of this issue. First of all, I begin by drawing the attention of the honourable Members. Members for the fact that we are on 29 September — (there is one day left for the end of this month — and the figure of the devil that would emerge, according to the news, during this month of September standing over the country and perhaps about the Assembly of the Republic will have much less space to be able to appear. I am referring to the news that is manifestly exaggerated, mainly played by the PSD bench and its great and unquestionable head of board. So, instead of the devil news, we have a country that is recovering dignity. Families are recovering their ability to breathe after four years of austere asphyxiation that has stolen their jobs, which has stolen their wages, which has stolen their rights and that is undoubtedly good news for the country. On the other hand, in the context of the recovery of this dignity, all Mr. Members, all the Portuguese people will finally be able to enjoy October 5 as a holiday and recovery of national dignity and sovereignty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u204	That's the devil! It's the devil!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u205	... arising from the action of this Government and the majority of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But the recovery of a country's dignity is not enough to make life, employment and investment more dignified and sustainable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u206	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u207	From this point of view, I ask Mr Eurico Brillante Dias to bring us something more concrete about the release of the ties that hang on the public investment that resided in the country under the supervision and the grip of the excessive deficit, so that at last there is a more productive and sustainable approach to creating investment and employment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u208	To reply, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u209	Mr President, I thank you for the question and for your reflection. What we witnessed during the first two years of QREN implementation, but also now, Portugal 2020 was a process in which, to a large extent, the PSD/CDS Government left without conditions of implementation in 2016 the most significant part of investment, which concerned the authorities and the inter-municipal communities. The companies had a blockade and this blockade, this year, has been largely eliminated. I said here yesterday, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, but also Mr Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has already said that it was possible to open new competitions, that SMEs can finally start to have the payment of incentives and that in 2016 we already have objective signs for private investment. We have objective signs of investment in equipment and also in circulating material and transport material. But we had a garrote, which is the garrote of the planning of the work — first, in the project and then in the planning of the public work. This process is long, takes the necessary time and is imposed by legislation, which, of course, we need to implement. The Minister of Planning and Infrastructure has already said here in the Commission that this work was largely done in 2016. Therefore, as all international institutions have said, knowing our Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, the expectation we have is that in 2017 we can have substantial investment growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u210	For the year it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u211	You always say it's for the year. We liked that « for the year» was in 2016, but you prevented it from leaving conditions for the implementation of Community funds. You will hear this sentence as many times as you need to avoid demanding things from this government that cannot be realized because of your incompetence and because of your lack of diligence in solving the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I shall repeat when necessary: you have left the structural funds blocked, without the possibility of implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u212	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u213	More: From here we have another element...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u214	But not much more, Mr President, you will have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u215	I will finish, Madam President. We believe that the exporting sector will have to a large extent in 2017 the possibility of seeing a set of market constraints that it still had. It is next year that we will start to have a more significant growth in investment and exports, largely because that will be the year corresponding to the implementation and planning of Community funds that this Government could do during the first legislative session that ended in September 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u216	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, I now realize that this time of the year when the Socialist Party announces what will happen in the years to come. I remember very well because, a year ago, a committee of wise of the Socialist Party — many of them still walk here, like the wise Centeno, the wise Galamba, the wise Brilliant... — said this year, economic growth would be 2, 4 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u218	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u219	He said the commissions of the wise 2, 4 %, in addition to the same position, with the same position with which you, from the top of that rostrum, announced the good news that comes there in 2017. It happens that this year economic growth is 0, 9 %, which actually contrasts with the 2015 economic growth that we know today was 1, 6 %, that is, much greater than that growth that we are actually having this year. That is why we, in this bench, who are warned, when we hear the Socialist Party talking about numbers, are careful to go test the nine to effectively understand what is happening. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] In addition, last week Mr Prime Minister presented a set of tables and we were able to verify that there was a great distance between those tables and reality. In fact, when we prove the nine to the figures of the Socialist Party we realize that the result of their policy is exactly that: new out, nothing! There is nothing left or too little left, a word which you certainly realize even better than me. When we look at the investment, which in 2015 grew 4, 5 %, we realize that this year is falling 2, 4 %. When we look at exports, which grew 5, 4 % last year, we realize that at the moment they are growing less than half of that. Until domestic consumption, domestic demand, which was the alpha and omega of your policies, is frankly below last year. That is why, Mr, because you talk here so much about the Community funds, I also checked its implementation in December 2015 and today, programme. For example, by the end of 2015 the Social Inclusion and Employment Programme had been paid 5 % and at present it was more than 1 %. In the case of the Human Capital programme, by 2015, 10 % had been paid, at present it was more than 5 %, and in the case of the Rural Development, Agriculture programme, it had been paid 15 % by 2015, and at this time you paid more than 2 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u220	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u221	But, Mr, to conclude, and since your intervention was on the 2017 State Budget, there is a question I cannot but ask you. We have heard a lot of discussion about the 2017 State Budget and the discussion we have heard is a lot about taxes and nothing about economy. Mr President, I would like to ask you today to assure the Portuguese that in the 2017 State Budget there is no increase in any tax, i.e. that the Portuguese will not have to pay any more taxes with the politics of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u222	To reply, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u223	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the 'wise' compliance. She's always fine and she'll stay in my resume, probably. Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, we knew that for four years you were inside and outside, and even opposed your own government several times,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u224	Are you talking about Dr. Mortagua? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u225	... but today, listening to Mr President's question, I have no doubt: you continue to oppose the PSD/CDS-PP government. For a government that has not achieved a single goal in deficit, unemployment, debt, for a government that has made four budgets and eight corrective budgets,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... come to say that the set of wise Socialist Party, in which he wrongly included me, does not succeed a number, you need to have a bit of discharge! How is it that, in 2016, a government member, who did not hit a number, comes here saying: "You failed the projections you did in 2015? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u226	It's true! We anticipated 1, 5 % growth and 1, 6 % growth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u227	Mr President, let me tell you that you do not lose due delay in replying to the 2 4 %, until it is easily explained. The Socialist Party presented that macroeconomic scenario, except error, in May 2015. Do you know what was the trajectory of the second half of 2015? GDP has always been growing, exports have grown in equivalent value, investment has been declining. Look, to a large extent, we weren't expecting you to be as bad as you were in the second half of 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To a large extent, we even trusted that you were able to do a little better than what you did in the second half of 2015. Second, in relation to exports, it seems that Prof. Mário Centeno is Minister of Finance in Angola, Brazil, the United States and China. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It seems that the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by this majority, is responsible for the management of these countries and for the search for the Portuguese economy that comes from them. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, to a large extent, you know as well as I, in terms of homologous variation, that the refinery of Sines was stopped in the first quarter of 2016, as well as the assembly line of Autoeuropa. And do you say that exports fall? Oh, my God! This government is good, the set of wise was also very good,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u228	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u229	... but he cannot control what was the exercise of your government and of private actors making legitimate decisions in his interest. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u230	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u231	Mr, to conclude with regard to the tax guarantee, if there is anything that the Portuguese know is that who cannot guarantee not to raise taxes, it is the CDS-PP and the PSD. You made the biggest tax increase ever, when you promised to drop the tax burden. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You, in this tax raising debate, are indeed champions. They are the champions of the increase in taxes for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u232	Having completed the requests for clarification to Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, we will continue with the political statements. To give the political statement of the Left Block, Mr João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The Formosa River consists of a set of barrier islands — Faro, Culatra, Armona, Tavira and Cabanas. The lagoon system of the river was classified in 1978 as a natural reserve and later the Natural Park of Ria Formosa was created in 1987 with the aim of preserving, preserving and defending that important natural heritage of the region. In 1999, he acquired the status of Special Protection Zone, which is part of the Natura 2000 Network and also integrates the list of sites of the Ramsar Convention. The Formosa River is fundamental to the economy of the region, either through its natural resources, such as fishing, aquaculture and seafood, or through tourism dynamics. The preservation of the Formosa river is essential for nature, for the guarantee of quality of life and for the yield of populations, and it is necessary to combine environmental defense with the interests of the resident populations. The protection, conservation and exploitation of the Formosa River is not incompatible with a controlled, regulated and responsible human occupation, as they complement themselves in a necessary and sustainable balance. We have a number of problems to solve on the environmental front. In the river, today we have the direct discharge of effluents and waste water from septic pits installed on the island of Armona and in the village of Marim, which empowers the appearance of toxins, leading to the death of fish and bivalves. The river is degraded and the damage is enormous for the fauna and flora and for the economic and social sustainability of the populations. The construction of the new ETAR (residual water treatment station) is a positive step, but not enough. The dredgings, claimed by fishing professionals, seafarers and vivairists, are a urgency for their decisive influence in the renewal of water, ensuring its quality in the production of bivalves. However, the dredging plan promoted by the Polis Society is a side-by-side shot, as it will have little impact on the improvement of current water flow conditions, since the planned interventions are limited to artificial bars and navigation channels. The renaturalization of the islands, in order to be viable and effective, must follow an integrated plan that reflects the serious and consequent treatment of all the effluents released in the Formosa River, the disabsorption of the access bars to the river and the application of structural measures to combat coastal erosion. To talk about demolition and relocation of populations without solving environmental issues is not to see the problem overall.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u235	The demolition program, provided for under the Orla Costeira Planning Plan, Vilamoura / Vila Real de Santo António, is distorted by reality, when it omits the fixation of the current communities. It ignores the paths of settlements that have sedimented identities, sociability and particular historical and symbolic relationships with the environment and the urban nuclei border. It was the residents and their ancestors who built and contributed to the good conditions of access, services and security that currently exist and constitute support infrastructures to those who visit the beaches, including corridors, catering services, health support, leisure activities, as well as the very existence of regular careers linking the islands to Faro and Olhão. This is very visible, for example, in the nuclei of Culatra, Farol and Hangares, The risk areas indicated on the beach of Faro and on the island of Culatra, in particular the population core of the Farol, are the example of the absence of a policy to combat coastal erosion. The measures that various governments have taken have only served to throw out public money. It proves that despite the interventions made, the problem continues to persist. Integrated solutions should be sought, taking into account the hydrodynamic action of the sea. The intended renaturalization should be a process compatible with the legitimate expectation of residents of the population nuclei of the barrier islands of the Formosa River not to be expelled from the territory where successive generations lived. Renaturalization is a process that should serve the interests of the resident population, and thus cannot be made from back to and against the population. For the Left Block, the solution is not to start by demolition of dwellings. Therefore, we presented two draft resolutions in the previous Legislation, proposing the suspension of demolitions and dialogue with populations, which were plunged by the votes of the PSD and CDS-PP. in this legislature we presented a new project, which was rejected again with the votes of the right and, in this case, with the abstention of the PS. Only a timid project that had been presented effectively by the PS was approved from this parliamentary debate. However, even this approved project, although admitting demolition, stated that all the nuclei would have the same treatment of equality and in dialogue with the populations. We see now that none of this has happened. Once again priority is given to demolition rather than dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u236	On the side of the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u237	We are now faced with situations where many residents of Culatra are receiving letters from Polis for the enforcement and administrative possession of the dwellings, after the Minister of the Environment mentioned two days ago that all the processes were being analyzed. It is incomprehensible that, two days later, if you see this pressure on populations. The people who live on the spot are currently really outraged and feel deceived by the statements made by these political leaders. The Left Block defends what it has always said: there must be an environmental defense within the protection of the rights of local residents. This is what we want, as the people want: that the process be suspended and duly analysed and weighed, in dialogue with the main leaders. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u238	Mr President, the Bureau has registered five Members for requests for clarification, including the PS, PS, PCP, CDS and Greens. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u239	I will answer two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u240	You have the floor, first of all, Mr José Carlos Barros, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Vasconcelos, you came to talk about the demolitions in the Formosa River and let us be amazed at the way the PS and the government speak. Let us be amazed that we all remember what we have just been reminded of about a year ago in the election campaign for the legislative elections, your party and your ex, in particular in a chorus with the Socialist Party and the Communist Party, they said about the Formosa River: « With us there will be no demolition, with us there will be no single demolition! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u242	That is why we do not understand, Mr President, this exaltation, this discomfort with the announcement of demolition. If the Government is of the Socialist Party — the Socialist Party that said in the Algarve, in campaign, exactly the same as the Left Block said on this matter — and governs with the support of the Left Block, and if, as far as you know, working groups are created to decide matters that are considered important, then you understand, Mr Deputy, and do not look at our bench. Understand! And he understands our difficulty in realizing that the common understanding they held on this matter had, after all, elections as a time limit for validity. You, Mr President, may continue to send protest rockets on demolition and on other things—we are already used! — but not waiting for us to catch the canes. You are an integral part of the new majority and are part of the process running to catch the canes of the rockets they throw. That is why, Mr President, I ask you what you think has happened so that suddenly the PS, the Left Block and the Communist Party would stop agreeing on this matter, so that the unanimitys could be completed. And I ask this for a very simple reason: because Algarve voters must at this moment be thinking that someone has not told them all the truth, and this clarification is fundamental. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President. I note that there has been a very strict fulfillment of time. Mr Luís Graça of the Socialist Party has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I believe we have heard a statement here in Mr PSD's question, which is a huge void. The PSD used us to these statements that here say nothing to say in the Algarve, to play double in the Algarve, telling people something in the Algarve and doing exactly the opposite in Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. João Vasconcelos, it is good to remember the starting point. The starting point is that the PSD and CDS government was going to demolish all the houses of the Hangars and Farol cores on the barrier islands. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It would demolish 212 houses on the island of Farol and 157 houses on the island of Hangares, totaling 369 houses. That is not the starting point where we are today. Where we are today it means that fishermen will see the historic right to live in the slums. In Culatra, where they have lived for more than 200 years, the Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens, for the first time, will grant licences to fishermen, who will be renewable and transmissible to the children of fishermen, which has never been done before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the island of Faro, where you demolished the houses, leaving the fishermen alone, abandoned, the government has already undertaken to build in the legal area a fishing core, with all living conditions, conditions for the fishermen, for their work, which you have not done. Therefore, it is guaranteed the first habitation and the life of fishermen, sailors and vivairists in the river Formosa. The gentlemen wanted to do exactly the opposite. It is as excessive to defend the demolition of all houses, as you have done, as it is too much to say that everything is resolved without resorting to demolition. There may be demolition and the Socialist Party has always said that there is no requalification of the Formosa River without resorting to demolition. Where? Where there are environmentally at risk areas, in areas which the Water Law itself defines as flood-free zones. It is not acceptable today, from an environmental point of view, to defend the existence of houses on top of the primary dune and within water.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u245	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u246	I shall conclude, Madam President. What the Government said today in the Newspaper is that the demolitions are confined to areas of environmental risk, which preserves the nuclei of the Hangars and the Farol and recognizes the rights of fishermen, which you have never, but never, done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I want to end by saying the following: people deserve all respect. It's time we don't play with people's lives down there, with fishermen. It is time not to play double games with fishermen, with those humble people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[You're absolutely right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u247	To reply, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u248	Madam President, I would also like to thank the honourable Members. Mr José Carlos Barros and Mr Luís Graça, the PSD and PS, their interventions. Starting with Mr. José Carlos Barros, I would say that some statements which he used here, in the background, are a great insult to the people, when he says that « this is protest rockets». When people fight for dignity, for the right to life, for the right to housing, you insult them by saying that we are launching rockets of protest. [[All right! That's it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u249	Mr President, in fact your statement should be criminalized and you should apologize to the people, who are certainly listening to us live. [[PSD protests.]] PSD seems to have been playing with the populations. I have here in my hand a motion from the City Hall of Faro, dated February 15, 2016, Municipal House that is governed by an alliance between the PSD, the CDS and the PPM. This motion reads as follows: « The City Council deliberates : 1 — To manifest vehemently protest in the face of the government's determinations to take these demolitions forward, undermining the expectations of the city of Faro, by the misunderstanding manifested in the face of what are the best interests of the population of the municipality; 2 — To demand the suspension of the demolition programme on the island of Culatra". Well, it's not worth being here to point out more points in this motion. After all, how many PSDs do we have? One in the Assembly of the Republic, another in the Algarve, another in the North, another in the Centre, another in Madeira? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I do not really understand these divisions. You have to understand. People are understood and not deceived, especially in electoral periods. In reply to Mr. Luís Graça, I have to say that the Block of the Left in the previous Parliament presented two draft resolutions on the theme of the islands of the Barriers of the Formosa River, where it proposes the suspension of the demolitions. The PSD and the CDS voted against; all other banks voted in favour, particularly the Socialist Party. It is the understanding of the Left Block that, with a new government and a new political framework, which brought hope to the country, the result of a four-year destruction by disastrous policies of the PSD and the CDS, this hope also reached the populations of the Formosa River. That is why we presented another project, in February, proposing the suspension of demolition and that we should follow an integrated plan to combat pollution, coastal erosion, dredging. But the Socialist Party has disappointed us, abstaining in the vote on our draft resolution. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u250	Anyway, we think nothing's lost. In fact, the political leaders said a short time ago that the situation would be examined. Therefore, we are confident that it is not yet a completed process and that, of course, in the coming days, also the result of the demand, indignation, the struggle of the populations, the broad consensus and dialogue, it is possible, of course, to reach an understanding. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u251	We shall continue with the requests for clarification to Mr João Vasconcelos. To that end, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Vasconcelos, the former Government initiated a process of demolition of housing on the islands of the Formosa River. [[PSD protests.]] He had the unconfessed goal of expelling local communities from the slums to deliver this valuable natural heritage to the great private interests, so that they would explore it for their benefit. That was the goal of the PSD and CDS and it continues to be. Today, they cannot hide your satisfaction with the possibility of demolition advancing into the Formosa River. That's the truth. They cannot hide your satisfaction in this debate because of the possibility of demolitions moving forward. [[PCP applause.]] The courageous struggle of the people, who always counted on the support of the CFP, stopped this process. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u253	They're on the moon!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u254	Madam President, I would ask that conditions be created so that I can continue to intervene without having to scream. In the context of this struggle, in March 2015 the CFP presented to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution proposing the end of the demolition. This draft resolution, which deserved the favorable vote of the PS, was plunged by the majority PSD / CDS. The new composition of the Assembly of the Republic, resulting from the legislative elections of October 2015, opened the possibility of definitely ending the process of demolition on the islands of the Formosa River. in this new political context, the PCP re-presented its draft resolution on the end of the demolition, but the PS changed its sense of vote, opting for an abstention when it had previously voted in favour, indicating that it could be preparing to conclude what the previous PSD/CDS government had not been able to achieve. Recently, the CFP received information that the Government was planning to resume the demolition of dwellings on the islands of the Formosa River, so last Tuesday we asked the Minister for the Environment about this. In response to our question, the Minister of the Environment said that the processes were being evaluated and that «I have no final answer to give it; it will certainly not last 15 days until I have it». at the same time as the Minister said this in the Assembly of the Republic, in the Algarve, the Sociedade Polis Litoral Ria Formosa resumed the process of demolition of dwellings, sending notifications to the owners. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u255	In view of the seriousness of this situation, the CFP Parliamentary Group immediately called for the hearing with the Minister of the Environment yesterday with the utmost urgency to explain its statements on Tuesday. Mr. João Vasconcelos, how does he assess this situation, in which the Minister of the Environment says in the Assembly of the Republic that nothing is decided about the demolitions and, at the same time, in the Algarve, is moving forward with these same demolitions? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u256	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u257	Madam President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, be welcome, because we, CDS, and the Portuguese have long been disappointed by the PS for several years now. So welcome. Finally, we see that you begin to understand that management in which you got involved. [[CDS-PP applause.]] in this question of the process of renaturalization of the Formosa river, which was launched by the previous Ministry of the Environment through the Polis Litoral da Ria Formosa program, as you well know, before the demolition of illegal constructions on the bars, as the assumption of the replacement of legality and also as the assumption of the protection of the coastal edge. The former Minister of the Environment has always ensured that the whole process of demolition is done in coordination with the population and local authorities. However, the Left Block and the Communist Party have always demonstrated clearly their disagreement with this programme, thus compacting with the existence of the various illegal buildings, which are, in the vast majority, second houses, i.e. on vacation. This we all knew, Mr. Deputies. What we did not know and what we admired, and that is why we understand your disappointment, is that the Left Block apparently did not know, apparently did not know that its coalition partner, the Socialist Party, who always voted alongside it in the previous legislature to prevent the completion of those projects, namely the demolition of illegal dwellings in protected areas, would now go to the government to choose to carry out necessary and urgent programmes for those protected areas. Yes, Mr. Deputies, it goes against this question: the Left Block, which has already announced measures to be included in the next State budget, apparently did not know that the Government would continue with the demolitions without any prior consultation of the management, i.e. the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. I also want to tell you that the CDS has always, and maintains, its position on this matter. It does not matter whether it is in the government or in the opposition, or whether it is years of election or not. We are in favour — we were, are and will be — of the valorisation and revitalization of our coastline. Others, especially the Socialist Party, no. Mr President, I would just like to ask you one question: what is the use of the Left Block in this matter? Once again, Mr President - and therefore you are disappointed, but this is not the first time - the Socialist Party and the Government have "passed your leg", you and your voters. What's the use of the Left Block for, after all, Mr. Deputies? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u258	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u259	Mr. President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, the PSD / CDS government, with the clear support of the PSD and CDS banks in the previous legislation, started this process of demolition in the Formosa River. They had a very deep opposition from the population and, curiously, contrary to what Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has now just said — absolutely on the contrary — the people have never been heard on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u261	Fatal Error! There is no possible renaturalization or defense of any protected area or zone without the participation of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u263	Everything else will be a gross mistake! It's not possible! So it was something that was imposed by the previous government. Now, the Greens, like the Left Block, have always answered this whole process and the outcome they had guessed. And the people, too, very vehemently, tried to make their voice heard to a deaf government that did not want to hear them. That is why, Mr President, we consider this attitude of the Ministry of the Environment to be regrettable — and I also want to say that to you very frankly, Mr Socialist Party Member. It is that we should respect the people and there is no process of this kind that could advance or that could be imagined to advance without the consultation of the populations, without listening to the populations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u264	People must have a word. Nothing can be taxed! It's a total failure they haven't heard. The petitioners who brought this matter and whose petition will be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic have been present today in the Assembly of the Republic, by their own will, who have clearly stated to the Assembly of the Republic that they have never been heard at any stage of the proceedings. This is not done! That is why Mr. João Vasconcelos, who would like to announce here publicly that the Greens will urgently present a legislative initiative to suspend the process, to listen to and involve the people. What is the fear of discussing with them? What is the fear of discussing with the people? I have heard them say that there are very urgent priorities in the Formosa River that are not being answered, such as the problems that you have already spoken about — sewage discharges, the absorption of the bar and the river and the erosion of the donor cord — and that nothing is being done about this matter? Is that what we're afraid to hear? What are these priorities? What is this respect for the population? And what respect is this for a protected area that is worthy of the natural values and worthy of the participation and well-being of the population? When we arrived at the committees, we heard all the banks say: « There are no protected areas without populations ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u265	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u266	I will finish, Madam President. And then, when you make decisions, that's it! It can't be! The Greens must therefore act quickly on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u267	To reply, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u268	Madam President, I would also like to thank the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who have now asked questions, that is, to the honourable Members. Deputies Paulo Sá, do PCP, Álvaro Castello-Branco, do CDS-PP, and Heloísa Apollonia, dos Verdes. With regard to the questions put by the honourable Member of the Portuguese Communist Party, of course we are also concerned about the situation and we believe that this whole process should stop and be examined. The letters that people are receiving from the Coastal Police Society Ria Formosa, SA, must be returned, must be cancelled. A dialogue is needed, on a case-by-case basis, and with all the people involved, also taking into account the statements made by political leaders, namely the Prime Minister and, a few days ago, the Minister of the Environment in the Committee on the Environment, when they said that the situation would be examined and that there would be a conclusion in the next 15 days. So we are also concerned about this and are receptive to this situation. About what Mr. Álvaro Castello-White said, we all know what the CDS is for. The CDS serves to bring destruction, serves to bring what we all know to the Algarve, whether in tolls, or in demolition. Even I assume that the CDS should be happy at this time, because it has always defended these positions to the wake of the populations. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Even today, I should have been present, for example, at the hearing of representatives of the population movement, because it would certainly be faced with emotional statements by people who actually live their problems and who you deny, you despise. You don't want to know anything about the lives of the people or their rights. They're interested in destroying. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The questions put by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens, of course, that we are also receptive and we will share these concerns, and the Left Block will also shortly present a legislative initiative on this subject. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u269	We will continue with the last political statement. For this purpose, on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We heard that the school year began normally because the teachers were placed. The Ministry and trade unions showed themselves proud and satisfied. But the school year did not start normally for students of the School Group Dr. Jorge Augusto Correia, in Tavira, or the School Group of Albuquerque, in the Guard, or for students of the Integrated Education and Training Programme (PIEF) of the Camp College, in Vila Nova de Cerveira, or of the School Group of Vieira de Araújo, in Vieira do Minho, or of the Group of São Gonçalo, in Torres Vedras, or Anacorensis, in Vila Praia de Âncora, and so many other schools with an association contract, or for students of the EB 2, 3, of Alto do Lumiar, or of the Jardim-Scola João de Dio, in Alvalade, both in Lisbon, or of the Group of Schools of Buzio, in Vale de Cambra, or of the Group of Schools of Maximinos, could continue on Braga, the list... And I'm not the one who says it. They're the parents of the students of these schools. They are the school leaders of ANDE ( National Association of School Leaders ) and ANDAEP ( National Association of Grouping Directors and Public Schools ), is the CONFAP ( National Confederation of Fathers Associations ). The older ones, like me, will certainly remember the cotton test. Yes, sir. Members, « cotton does not deceive», and even the Left Block complains in the newspaper i that « the cases of schools with no employees » are multiplied, from which a dramatic lack of quality of the school results. After all, the whitening that the Government and the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) wanted to open this school year does not pass in the test of reality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u271	Is everything quiet with FenPROF? Looks like it does. But is everything okay with the school directors? Don't! Are the education assistants placed in schools? Don't! Are students with hours without holes and lack of teachers? Don't! Are students with special educational needs to be truly included? Don't! Are all families with their children at the school of their choice? Don't! And is Mr. Serene and quiet with all this? Say yes. And that's what's worrying. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let's hope it doesn't become normal for this Ministry not to worry or, even worse, hide the problems of students. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Ministry of Education cannot be transformed into the 'Ministry of the Union'. There is much more to be done in the education and teaching system than to meet a corporate agenda. In fact, Mr. President of the Republic, in his intervention to open the school year at the National Education Council ( NEC ), said the following: «Ambide forgets that education system and education system are quite different realities and that thinking about education only for the first is to ignore increasingly important protagonists who also enter the second. (...) Ignore them is to imagine a closed school world or a tower of political solipsist ivory». He also called on Mr President "to take steps that will always turn education into a meeting place and not into a arena of struggle between parties or social partners. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, that's exactly why the CDS introduced today a bill that proposes to change the Basics Law of the Educational System and that will be discussed in a legislative agenda next week. The Basic Law, as you know, 30 years ago in the next month of October, justifying the need for a review: on the one hand, it no longer reflects the current practices of schools and, on the other, it does not offer the necessary latitude to the prospective practices of the coming years. With this update, the CDS aims to call everyone into a process of consensualization so that the Basics Law can frame not only the present time but, above all, the next 30 years of education. We propose a number of amendments to the non-superior education that can be summed up in four major ideas: the first is the stability of education policies for six-year periods, untiring the policies of electoral cycles, to ensure greater predictability to schools and families; The second is the universalization of pre-school education at 3 and compulsory at 5 years of age, in the recognition that an early intervention is promoting greater equity in access to school success, and, in the same way, the reorganization of compulsory education in two cycles of six years, to eliminate the excessive segmentation that is potentiating failure; The third is the recognition in the Law of the concepts of 'autonomy' and 'decentralisation', with the aim of strengthening the approximation of education policy to people; The fourth is the creation of conditions for the participation of teachers in their children's school life and greater freedom of choice, due to the definition of a public education network, composed of various schools and different educational projects, including non-state, contractual with the State. António Barbosa de Melo said in 2007 at the National Council of Education on the Basics Law that « Education is a work of all Portuguese, of all institutions and of all actors». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are proposing. For the week we'll know who's going to build. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u272	Four Mrs have signed up. Members of the PS, PSD, PCP and BE, to request clarifications. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u273	Mrs President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, your speech has two aspects. I will quickly refer to the first and then devote myself to the second. On the opening of the school year, it is very simple: we will have to talk about this more calmly, because I know that Mrs Deputy was not in this Parliament, and I was not, either, when the openings of the school year of Minister Nuno Crato were a joke behind another trick, and then the CDS didn't care much about that. At that time, everything was very good. But now, when the teachers are put in time, when there are fewer teachers with zero hours, when the hiring of 450 operational assistants is prepared—and they are contracts, not remedies—when they start the program of promotion of school success, when they start again adult education, when they reinvest themselves in schools, when they do all this and when they talk to directors, teachers and schools, you return to FenPROF, you return to association contracts, you return to pure ideology. But, after all, that's what we've been waiting for. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the Basic Law of the Education System, the case is more serious, Mrs. The honourable Member announces that, in the next legislative agenda, half a dozen days from now, we are going to see who is in favour of this or of that in relation to the Basic Law. Madam Member, I would like to say — and I am very sorry — that it is clearly an extreme irresponsibility to think that this is the way in which consensus is being built, that convergences are being built, that agreements are being built on an essential subject such as education. The honourable Member has the notion of how much work, how many debates, how many articles, how many colloquia were made in the first law to build consensus?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u274	No, Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa has no notion!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u275	Does the honourable Member have any notions of the difference between this and say today that, for the week, we will decide on the reform of the basic law? Do you know that the National Education Council is still carrying out a series of initiatives to discuss the basic law and its prospects?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u276	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u277	I conclude now, Madam President. Does the honourable Member know that Mr President of the Republic is invited to take part in this process and that the Assembly of the Republic, through the Committee on Education and Science, if you want to associate with this process, precisely in order to do things with time and seriousness? No, I'm sure you don't know, because, if you knew, you didn't have the irresponsibility to want to talk about convergence and consensus and come here, in a play and in a parliamentary manoeuvre, try to kill these consensus, try to kill these convergences and disrespect parents, students, teachers and education in Portugal. Responsibility, Mrs. Member, that's what you're asked for! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u278	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa informed the Bureau that she would respond to requests for clarification together. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u279	Madam President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, first of all, and after Mr Porfirio Silva's request for clarification, I would like to thank you for bringing here the subject of education, particularly the opening of the school year, so that we can explain to the Portuguese that there is a narrative on the fact that the school year has begun with tranquillity that does not actually occur.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u280	PSD is quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u281	The social-communist government and parliamentary governance have made it believe that education is all going well, but nothing is more wrong than that. What actually happened was that there was not the traditional union festival of Mário Nogueira and, with that, it can be made to believe that everything is fine in education. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] But education is not exhausted in the placement of teachers. The placement of teachers is even an administrative act and if we understand that the placement of teachers must be done by the end of each school year, we can do so. But that's not it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u282	Not even the PSD and CDS were able to do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u283	As they said earlier, there is more life in education than the placement of teachers. I ask Mrs Ana Rita Bessa if you know, because we have had a permanent contact with the schools, that there is a financial breakdown in public schools. That is, there are cuts of approximately 20 % in the budget for current expenses and we have been informed by all school directors that we have contacted that there is possibly no money to pay for water, light, communications and heating costs during this first period. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] More: I just hope that the left benches do not get water and, as there is no solution yet, the group directors have asked for solutions to this problem and there is no answer from the Ministry — that they do not remember to invent that teachers, as a result of their replacement and as they have become part of the richest ones, must pay their fees and expenses for the functioning of schools. I hope they don't get to this point and they don't get a weird formula to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u284	That was the Rabbit Pass proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u285	More: Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said, and very well, that there is a lack of assistants in education. This Government and this majority were unwilling to reduce the number of hours of work without taking into account the impact it would have on public services, particularly on education. And with this, the problem, which was already serious, has been aggravated. For those who have social concerns and the most disadvantaged, I would like to know, Mrs Ana Rita Besa, if you are aware that there are multi-deficiency units that are not currently operating because of the lack of education assistants. On the other hand, and I finish quickly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u286	You really have to finish quickly, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u287	... I ask Mrs Ana Rita Bessa whether she is aware of the late payments that exist today and that there have been throughout the school year, since there has not been a transfer from POCH (Operational Capital Human Programme) to the professional schools, who have been financing vocational education throughout the school year and who are currently also indebted and charged to meet their obligations at the level of functioning, salaries of assistants and teachers and the payment of their taxes. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u288	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u289	Mrs President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, was extraordinary the moment we just witnessed. The CDS, which was an active member of a government that has played the greatest ever attack on public school, now presents itself as the paladin of public school, with a sort of solution that now suddenly presents? Oh, my God! But what is this? [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] This is the same CDS which, in parallel with the PSD, has repeatedly overrun the Basics Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic — that is the question of education — and now comes with this proposal? Oh, my God! The CDS is telling us what? You want to change the Basics Law of the Education System for what? Is it to put there your prospect of destruction of the public school? Your political practice? All the destruction that has been done? Is that what you want to put into law? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] So if that's it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, don't count on us. It is that we remember very well the successive work — from tangled up to the final trick — of the PSD/CDS government at the beginning of the school year. It was in such a way that even ex-Minister Nuno Crato came to apologize for the mess he made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u290	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u291	That's not our school vision. It's not that, at all, our view of school! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] If you want to change the Basic Law of the Educational System for this, do not count with us for this petition. They will not be able to erase from our memory the cuts, the dismissals of thousands and thousands of teachers, the non-contracting of thousands of other fundamental workers for the proper functioning of schools — which is your responsibility! — the closure of so many schools in this country outside. No, we don't forget! We did not wake up yesterday for the intransigent defense of public school, we always face this fight, we will always continue to give it and we will always embrace it! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Is that a CDS? Not the CDS! The CDS walked elsewhere, the CDS walked on the black side of force, on the side of destruction, from attack to public school. That's the truth! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Although there are problems to solve—with certainty that there are, are identified, the unions have already denounced them and we continue to denounce them, as is the case with the lack of assistants, the lack of technicians, the lack of psychologists—we cannot forget, of course, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the immense, the tremendous contribution that the PSD and the CDS have made to the situation of chaos with which they have tried to undermine the public school. And that's the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u292	And the 30,000 teachers who haven't been put up yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u293	The PCP here will, as always, be in front of the defense of the public school, but do not count on us to overthrow the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u294	Your time is up, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u295	The Basic Law of the Education System met and half of the government's bullshit PSD/CDS would never have even happened. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u296	For a final request for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u297	Madam President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, we note that you have come here to make the preambular of the power schedule next week, but we do not know whether it was due to lack of subject matter or to have real interest in the Basics Law. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But it is understandable the interest of the CDS in the question of changing the basic law. The CDS never liked the Basic Law, as it never liked the Constitution. In fact, she voted against both of us!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u298	We only voted against the 1976 Constitution, not the current one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u299	The CDS problem is not with the need to have a consensus, is that the CDS does not like the consensus that was created in the Basic Law and the Constitution and therefore wants to subject everyone else to what it thinks should be consensus. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] In fact, what the CDS said, at the time of voting the Constitution, was that it voted against it as a paternalist, since it offered social services to people. And he also said that there was « a particular education reduced to the precarious characteristics of the supplety of public education ». The problem of the CDS with the Constitution and the Basics Law is that private and private education was not living at the expense of public money; the problem of the CDS with the Basics Law is that it does not allow the implementation of a gigantic association contract to divert money from taxes to private schools, and that is what we learned. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u300	You can only destroy! They can't build anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u301	And the CDS so much doesn't like the Basics Law that it never asked to comply with. Just look at the Basic Law and see that it obliges the State to guarantee access opportunities and school success. Compared with the basic vocational education introduced by the right-wing government, we realize that the Basics Law has not been fulfilled. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] When we look at the Basic Law and see that education should contribute to the correction of asymmetries and regional and local development, what did the CDS and PSD government do? They've closed schools in the interior! When we look at the Basic Law and see that education should ensure a second-opportunity education for those who did not have the opportunity to enjoy it at the right age, what did the CDS and the PSD do? They're done teaching adults.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u302	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u303	Even in the chapter of curriculum development the CDS and PSD were able to contravene the Basic Law, when it is said there that education should also serve to create a critical spirit and human beings that can contribute to the country's fair progress. In all the CDS and PSD contravene Bases Law! Are there problems in schools today? There are problems in schools today, but changing the Basic Law will not solve any of these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u304	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u305	I conclude, Madam President. About the lack of employees what does the Left Block say? Let's get out of here! What did the CDS and PSD say? Call the workers under the IEC (employment-inclusion contracts) and call the unemployed to work in schools. That's how the CDS solved the public school problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u307	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I ask you the following: after all that you have done, do you think this country trusts the CDS to review the Basics Law? Do you think that, even if it was possible to improve the Basics Law, the country would trust the CDS to do that task?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u308	Your time is up, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u309	I'm done, Madam President. There are teachers and students from high school Camões, a high school for which your government has done nothing. Ask them, if you have the courage to hear the answer, what your government has done for them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u310	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u311	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, about the past, in fact, I was not here but I was in the country and I therefore find a certain grace to do this once again when we define the success of the opening of the school year from the successful placement of teachers. Moreover, I ask: if this placement was so extraordinarily well done, why was there still on the reserve list 6000 places to be filled on September 17th? Therefore, if the teachers were all placed on the 17th, no more 6000 teachers would be needed in schools. [[PCP protests.]] Question : in our schools there are captivating? Yes, sir! Are there students in containers? Yes, sir! Are there schools with infiltrations and asbestos, now, this school year? Yes, sir! Is there a lack of staff this school year? Yes, sir! Are there mixed classes? Yes, sir! Are there classes exceeding the maximum number of students? Yes, sir! This happens this school year and is the responsibility of the VV government. Ex! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] In any case, I agree that it is not interesting for us to spend the next 30 years discussing what the previous government has done. That is why the CDS proposes a process of discussion of an amendment to the Basic Law. [[BE's protests.]] We do not bring the absolute truth and we would like you to come to the game. The PCP has already said that the game was not coming, so I would like to know if the PS and the Left Block also prefer to keep the status quo,... [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] ... knowing that there are changes that they themselves defend, such as the universalization of pre-school education at the age of three. They simply prefer not to argue because Mrs Joana Mortágua thinks that the CDS does not have morals or, better yet, that this Parliament is not the right place for this discussion. Again, the CDS will present a proposal for an amendment to the Basics Act in the legislative agenda. If you do not agree, come play and bring your amendments so that we can spend the next 30 years having a more productive discussion. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u312	The first item on today's agenda is thus concluded. We will continue with the second point, which consists of the joint discussion of petition No 551 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Commission of Health Users of the Medium Tejo, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to allow the organization of health care in the Mid Tejo Hospital Centre, and draft resolutions 153 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Access to Health Care at the Midwest Hospital Centre ( PS ), 269 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — For a management at the service of the populations of the Midwest Hospital Centre Tejo ( The Greens), 320 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of various measures with a view to the proper functioning of the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo, EPE ( CDS-PP ) and 319 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Access to health care provided at the Tejo Hospital Centre ( PSD ). To present the PS draft resolution, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u313	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The need to improve health care in the Middle Tejo region is consensual, and the proof of this is the set of draft resolutions presented by all banks in the Assembly of the Republic. On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I welcome the 7450 petitioners who defend better health care. This struggle of the autarchs, and transversal to the whole region, for better health care of the populations cannot be forgotten in this plenary of the Assembly. The so-called Tejo Hospital Center serves a population of about 200,000 people and has three hospital units — Abrantes, Tomar and Torres Novas —, a population that deserves access to better health care. The Socialist Party has always been concerned about this situation and cannot allow it to continue to worsen in the Tejo Middle. The concentration of emergencies in the Tejo Medium did not correspond to the highest quality, given the distances to be achieved by the citizens. Urgency and hospital corridors with 60 km and 70 km are not at least acceptable in Portugal that you want to be modern and where you want to serve the citizens better. This situation of the municipalities, notably the one of Ourem and the one of Ferreira do Zêzere, is in part resolved with the possibility that all users of the Tejo Middle Hospital can travel within the National Health Service, but it is important to continue to defend the National Health Service in the Tejo Medium. A hospital without internal medicine is not a real hospital and still one of the three poles has no internal medicine: the Tomar pole. The Minister of Health and the President of the Board of Directors of the Hospital Center have already announced that the Tomar hospital will have internal medicine. It is urgent for this hospital to have internal medicine. It is urgent that this problem be solved. It is certainly important to have more valences either in Abrantes, or in Torres Novas, or in Tomar.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u314	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u315	It is important to respond to the citizens of the Middle Tejo and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group here will, together with all, seek the necessary consensus to resolve the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u316	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u317	Mr President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on Greens, I would like to begin by welcoming all the subscribers of this petition and also the Committee on Health Care for the Medium Tejo, which has stimulated this petition. The Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo, which integrates the Hospital Dr. Manoel Constancecio, in Abrantes, the Hospital Nossa Senhora da Graza, in Tomar, and the Hospital Rainha Santa Isabel, in Torres Novas, comprises geographically the populations of 12 municipalities in the district of Santarém and also serves, indirectly, the populations of Gavião, Ponte de Sór and Vila de Rei, covering, as a whole, more than 230 000 inhabitants. In fact, the reorganization in 2012 led to the concentration and division of services by hospital units, with the consequent loss of valences, including the medical-surgical emergencies in Tomar and Torres Novas, questioning the right of populations to access to health care of proximity and quality. With the new restructuring carried out by the previous government, which, in fact, expressed the political position of the PSD/CDS Government on the national health system — basically cuts and closure of services — this Hospital Center was once again limited in its public service competences, in providing health care to its populations. However, the increase in the distance that users and family members now have to travel implies more suffering and more spending, aggravated by the lack of public transport. Situations that add to the lack of family physicians and the closure of health extensions, making it difficult to link primary and hospital health care, compromising not only the lives of users, but also the working conditions of the health professionals themselves in the region. It is therefore in this context that the Greens present today a legislative initiative to recommend to the Government, on the one hand, that guarantees the existence of medical-surgical emergency services, internal medicine and pediatrics in the three hospital units of the Hospital Center of the Middle Tejo and, on the other hand, that it provides this Hospital Center with health professionals and material resources capable of ensuring the quality of health services that users in this region need and who have the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u319	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u320	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Tejo Middle Hospital, as mentioned above, is composed of three hospitals — Abrantes, Tomar and Torres Novas — and today it is consensual that this option by three hospital units was not the best solution, neither in terms of management, nor, most importantly, for the service it provides to the population. The CDS understands and accompanies the concerns of the population served by this Hospital Center, in fact, expressed in the petition, but we cannot fail to state that proximity is not always synonymous with quality. We understand, therefore, that planning the valences of a hospital unit is essential to reconcile the difficulties of hiring health professionals with a better use of resources, both human and material, in order to provide the best service to the population. Thus, the best solution for the Middle Tejo Hospital Center, the same is to say the best solution in terms of health care for the Middle Tejo population, involves involving all entities to find solutions to the problems that exist and that need to be solved. The previous government, PSD / CDS, has made an important contribution to improving this situation either by opening new valences in some units or by encouraging the hiring of health professionals. However, there is still much to do and from there the reason we have presented a draft resolution to continue this path of improvement of health care, namely a better link between the units of the Middle Tejo Hospital with the Santarém District Hospital, which is already promised to happen with the use of the Santarém hospital with the operating block of Torres Novas, the continuation of the effort to hire human resources in the hospital, for which additional measures are necessary to encourage the establishment of professionals. We cannot but reaffirm our concern at the consequences that the reduction of working hours for 35 hours can bring to the pursuit of these objectives, because this 35-hour reality is certainly contrary to the possibility of improving the strengthening of human resources in this hospital unit. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u321	For an intervention, you have the floor for Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u322	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health problems of the Tejo Medium, especially at the level of hospital care, would not make us expect them to be so worrying when it is a region that has three hospitals practically the same size. What could be a great advantage for the region has become, over the years, a problem of management, a problem of equipment, a problem of resources, a problem of people, above all, a problem of health. Fortunately, in this House today there is a broad consensus that it is necessary to change the management and how these hospitals relate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u323	I'd say!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u324	In fact, this has been said over the past few years and, fortunately, already in this mandate, even the Minister of the Socialist Party himself agreed with a proposal that the PSD gave him in this regard to be discussed among all. It's not worth continuing to say bad things about the Midwest Hospital Center, the lack of doctors and nurses. It is a reality that we all agree with, it is a problem that has decades, it is not only now, and it is only the result of what was perhaps the healthy competition of all wanting to have your hospital at home. What is true is that the Santarém district has four hospitals and is not happy, it is not satisfied with the health care it has, because it may have better, with more quality and, above all, more effective, which is what is intended for health. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that this debate be held without demagogy. The last few years have allowed to improve many indices in the hospital and in the Midwest Hospital Center. We appeal here — and we demonstrate the availability of the PSD — in order to discuss this with rigour, with weight and, above all, with the interest of the users above any political and party interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u325	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u326	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the petitioners who have brought a set of concerns about the organization of health care in the Tejo Medium for more than two years. We recognize that from then on, especially in recent months, the picture has improved a little. But there are still many shortcomings, which, in fact, led the Left Block to move forward with a draft resolution, approved here last May. We do not forget the PSD's abstention from this draft resolution. The same PSD that now, four months later, in a hypocritical demagogic maneuver, comes to say that after all it is also very concerned with management, with the Mid Tejo Hospital Center, with valences, with accessibility. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary, in fact, to increase the valences in the three poles of the Hospital Center with internal medicine, pediatrics and surgery, it is necessary, of course, to hire more professionals and to dignify those who work there. On the other hand, there is a lack of family doctors in various municipalities, such as Sardoal, and, as in the whole country, there is an incomprehensible wage disparity between professionals with the same level of requirements, either in USF (family health units) or in UCSP (custom health care units). Recently, the entry of new computer applications into primary health care almost paralyzed the system. Apparently, installed equipment would have insufficient capacity to support applications. The recent acquisition of 2000 new computers will probably solve the problem. That's how we expect it! But the acquisition of this equipment should have preceded the entry of new applications, avoiding the confusion generated. We recognise, in short, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what has been done to solve the problems, but let us also acknowledge that there is still much to be done, as we are rightly reminded of the request of the users of the Tejo Medium, to whom we once again greet. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u327	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u328	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to greet the Mid-Healing Health Committee and the more than 7000 subscribers to this petition, who have struggled much to improve the conditions of access to health care in their region, not only with regard to the Mid-Healing Center, but also with the necessary linkage of this Hospital Center with primary health care, which reveal enormous deficiencies in this region and effectively contribute to further hindering the services provided by the Hospital Center. The justification for this petition is primarily related to the disastrous restructuring imposed by the previous government at the Midwest Hospital Center. This would not be necessary if it was not the closure of valences in several hospitals, namely the concentration of the medical-surgical urgency in the hospital of Abrantes, which posed enormous problems to the populations of the Middle Tejo region. That was the next cause of this petition. That is why, and also because of the initiative of the users, this issue has already been debated several times in the Assembly of the Republic and, including, the resolution adopted here in May, resulting from the draft resolutions submitted by the CFP and BE, which gave rise to Resolution No 132 / 2016, which is currently in force, precisely aims to respond to the problems raised here by this petition. We believe that it makes all the sense, to be approved, as it is foreseeable, the draft resolutions presented here today, that an effort can be made in the Health Committee to adopt a text that prevents the Assembly from adopting successive resolutions on the same subject, even at the risk of contradicting each other at some point. This is not desirable, it does not contribute to the prestige of this House, so it would be important that the resolution which was adopted in May this year could be replaced by another one which incorporates the points contained in the resolution adopted in May, but which adds something that results from tomorrow's adoption, as a result of this debate. What we all defend—in fact, we always defend, even against what was the destructive action of the previous government—is that the users of Torres Novas, Tomar and Abrantes hospitals have the minimum valences so that any of these units can effectively be regarded as a hospital worthy of that name. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u329	The PSD still has time and Mr Duarte Marques has signed up. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u330	Madam President, I was not thinking of using the floor until I think the debate was very high and, above all, there was a great consensus here. However, the Member of the Left Block cannot fail to respond to the speech he has made, which is regrettable and, above all, creates a division between all parliamentary groups here. It only hurts you, personally, and the Left Block. Mr President, hypocrisy is, when you are in opposition, walking to the doors of the hospitals to make demonstrations and now « put the fool in the bag»! [[PSD applause.]] It's just that the PSD members, when there was a nurse strike, were there, in the hospital, and we were government! And now they'll be back! When there were problems they turned their faces and were there! They've always turned their faces around! But not Mr. Block Left! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u331	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u332	Madam President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u333	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u334	Mr. Member of the Bloc de Left, I just want to give an account of newspaper titles : « Medium Tejo : Hospital Centre with excellence in 10 specialties » ; « Medium Tejo : CHMT leads ratios of first external consultations in November last year ; « Mid Tejo Hospital Centre welcomes 100 new employees »; « Abrantes — New Observations Room has entered into operation at the Hospital »; « Medium Tejo — Hospital Centre has new nephrology service. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u335	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u336	Sir, where is hypocrisy? Hypocrisy is to make protests at the door and, when the time comes to do the same, « put the bag in» again! As the CDS says, the Left Block, after all, does not pass from a « laundry», but is a laundry in health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u337	Mrs. Members, concluded the joint discussion of petition No 551 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and draft resolutions 153 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), 269 / XIII ( 1. a ) ( The Greens ), 320 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 319 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ), we move on to the third and last item of the agenda with the joint discussion of petition No 61 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Submitted by the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Second School of Trucks, asking the Assembly of the Republic to rehabilitate and requalify the Liceu Camões, and draft resolutions 157 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the Second Truck School in Lisbon ( The Greens ), 475 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Beginning of the retraining works at the Second School of Trucks, in the academic year 2016 / 2017 ( PCP ) and 480 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Second Truck School ( BE ). To present the Greens draft resolution, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u338	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to welcome, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition, a greeting which also extends to the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Second School of Trucks. The Camões High School, currently designated as the Second School of Camões, was inaugurated on October 16, 1909 and was built of root based on the project of the Architecture Ventura Terra, becoming a reference of the school architecture, being the first modern high school of Lisboa. Through this high school they passed as students or as major teachers figures in the history and culture of our country in the most various areas. Classified, since 2012, as a monument of public interest, the Second School of Trucks is currently in a state of degradation due to the age of the building but also to the lack of maintenance, since it has never known a fundamental intervention. It presents a set of problems that have caused concern by the respective Association of Fathers but also by the whole school community. There is also an opinion of the LNEC ( National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ), and it is expected that the situation will worsen over time and may represent serious risks to the safety of about 2000 people who attend this school daily. In view of this, it is clear that the Truck High School needs urgent works to rehabilitate and requalify the building, which are indispensable to the realization of the right to education and how to provide dignified conditions to the entire school community, as well as to preserve the memory and heritage of this former high school. Finally, it should be noted that there has already been a project planned for its rehabilitation, but that unfortunately it has been suspended, without any further forecast on a new date, which is absolutely unacceptable. Therefore, the Greens, together with the concerns of the petitioners, presented a legislative initiative to recommend to the Government that it take the necessary measures to urgently rehabilitate the Second School of Trucks. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u339	To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u340	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the petitioners for their persistence. Parents and education officers, students, teachers, the director, the direction of the Truck High School for many years have brought to the Assembly of the Republic the very right claim of doing works in a school that is over 100 years old and that has never had a background requalification. So, if today, in 2016, we are discussing this petition, we do so because of its persistence in this very fair struggle for ensuring the quality of the material conditions of this School. More than 4251 those who have subscribed to this petition are more than 1700 students in a secondary school, with night education, professional courses, continuation of studies, and only late the need to perform works in this school. We know that the priority in defining schools to be intervened by the School Park did not identify this as one of the priorities, despite being. And here the former Government of the PSD and the CDS, at the same time that in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, PSD and CDS voted in favour of proposals for the construction of works, suspended the works throughout the country and therefore in August 2011 decided to suspend the works in this school. We understand that it is more than just the need for works, and therefore we present a proposal for them to start in 2016 / 2017 school year. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u341	To present the draft resolution of BE, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u342	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : First of all, the Left Block wishes to welcome, in a very special way, the petitioners of petition No 61 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) for the urgent rehabilitation of the Camões High School and also the entire school body — students, teachers, assistants — who have long made this request for the rehabilitation of your school. This theme has not gone side by side with the public debate in the city of Lisbon but also in the country, since we are talking about a centenary high school with a historically and socially recognized importance. Considered a monument of public interest since 2012, also in the same year the LNEC, the National Civil Engineering Laboratory, certified functional and structural deficiencies as an urgent need for requalification. However, and as the petitioners point out, nothing has been advanced in recent years in order to start the works, despite the fact that it was planned for August 2011 to start re-qualification by the School Park for seismic reinforcement, which was interrupted, as has been said, by the previous Government. It is not acceptable in 2016 that there are still thousands of schools operating with students in a total lack of conditions: roofs and ceilings that allow rainwater to enter that cause infiltrations; walls that have horizontal cracks; an outdoor playing field that has not existed for 10 years due to the risk of breaking down a wall; laboratories without modern equipment and facilities. We speak of about 1800 students, more teachers and assistants who are in imminent danger every day. Therefore, and following the concerns of parents, students, teachers, auxiliaries, the Left Block presents a draft resolution urging the Government to take as an urgent matter that has been urgent for a long time, i.e. the process of re-qualification of the Camões High School. This is because it is important to preserve the historical memory of this Knowledge House, but also so that the future of many students and students can come to be as long as so far. Thus, we also urge PSD and CDS, which previously cancelled the works that were already planned, to have an opportunity here to approve the draft resolutions that request the requalification of this high school once and for all, since so much is spoken in education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u343	Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u344	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet all the petitioners, where they are in charge of education, teachers, auxiliary officials, former students and, in particular, all students of the Camões High School, although many cannot be formally petitioners of this cause according to age, here they have come to remind us today that it is for them and for them who work the public school and who are they and those who succeed them throughout this school area the greatest beneficiaries of the requalification that will be carried out. The former Liceu Camões, a hundred-year-old property of historical value, of public interest, built under the project of Ventura Terra, whose portrait this same House stands with fair pride in the lobby of the Parliamentary Library, arrived at an unacceptable condition of deterioration and degradation at the level of its infrastructure and equipment. This government, taking into account the advanced state of deterioration, but also all the factors that compete to make the Second School of Trucks a reference school, had enough political will to identify its rehabilitation as a priority. Thus, the estimated overall cost of this intervention was resized and adjusted to the new functional program already assumed, and until the end of the first half of 2017, the review and re-laboration of the architectural project should be completed, and the public contest was then launched for the start of the works. This means that, throughout the Legislature, we will have the Second School of Trucks requalified and ready to continue to develop, with other material and pedagogical means and conditions, the excellence of its educational project, objective that has also been defended for a long time by the city of Lisboa, both in the City Hall and in the Municipal Assembly. I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that the Government and the PS Parliamentary Group choose education as a priority and know how to be consistent with that choice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u345	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would briefly like to say, for what we have heard during this debate, that this is a matter, from my point of view, consensual. We will not waste much time recognizing the historical importance of this Ventura Terra heritage, as it has just been said, a building of enormous historical importance, and it is obviously impressive to all of us, from the point of view of the memory it represents for the city of Lisbon and for the country, if we see the list of personalities and former students who passed through the Camõ High School today. It's absolutely impressive! Just to quote some and not to spend all the time I have, I remember Má Sá Carneiro, Aquilino, Rumuluo de Carvalho, Cardoso Pires, Virgílio Ferreira, Fernando Namora, António Lobo Antunes, the writer, and also Lobo Antunes, the doctor, great figures of our politics like António Guterres, Durão Barroso, Álvaro Cunhal and more recently and in the world of culture names like Nicolau, Francisco Nicholson, or more recently, Jorge Palma, Zé Pedro, to quote two of the youngest, although they are no longer themselves young. Therefore, this represents an enormous and very relevant cultural heritage and value. Now on the political issue, I wanted to say the following: what has been said here is not out of reality and therefore it is not worthwhile to radicalize what is as it is, that is, the Camões High School has been degrading over time. It should be remembered that such an old building has certainly not deteriorated in the last year or in the last four years, and it should also be remembered that in the last 20 years, the Socialist Party has ruled for 14 years, i.e. three quarters of the time of government. We have to recognize this! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u347	It is true and it is indisputable that the former Government suspended the works of the School Park when in 2011 it was confronted with the Memorandum of Understanding and the pre-banking of the Country. You don't have to scramble him either. That's the truth and it's the reality! It is also worth remembering that the works of the School Park were much of the responsibility of such a previous government that led the country to pre-banking, which often affixed in pharaonic works, affixed in schools that did not need that kind of structures, affixed on such candlelights as much talked about, allowing to degrade historical schools, heritage as relevant as, for example, the Camõ High School, in Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u348	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u349	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying the following: having the former Government lifted the suspension of these works, there is a project, the Socialist Party and the Members. Members demanded that the works be done and having Mr. Minister of Education come to say that they would still begin this year, 2016, all the conditions are met. The only question that remains is this: when will these works be started and what concrete project? The previous or some minimalist? These are the questions that are required in view of the importance of heritage and its history. The CDS will obviously have agreement. I repeat, the conditions are met and it is important that the work begin and that this heritage is safeguarded, for the sake of good, of course, by the teachers and students of the high school Trucks. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u350	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor. Ms. Margarida Balsairo Lopes ( PSD ). — Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and saying that the PSD Parliamentary Group agrees with the urgency of these works in the former Truck High School. This is a historic building, as has already been said, over 100 years old, which was, in fact, classified in 2012 as national heritage and which has been an exemplary school in the democratization of education in Portugal. But let's talk about the rehabilitation of schools in Portugal in recent years. We can talk about the 332 schools for which there was a budget of EUR 2400 million and that the Socialist Party managed to spend in 181 schools the whole budget for 332! ... Do you mind asking the question: and the other half? Well, it was, as everybody knows, the famous « party» of the School Park, and I bring here a chart showing that in 2008 they were budgeted by school more than 2 million euros, but not up to 3 million euros; in 2010 the cost per school was above 15 million euros. Take a good look at this: from 2 million to 15 million euros! Well, of course, the PS spent what he had and what he didn't have and obviously cases like this one from the Truck High School were not intervened because of the irresponsibility of those who governed the country at that time. But this school has not been abandoned. It should be remembered that, in the last four years, despite the difficulties that the country has experienced, there has been a transfer of almost €250 000, through the State budget, to urgent repairs. Now that the country is no longer in the pre-bancarrot, as it was in 2011, all the conditions are created to finally advance with the works. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u351	For a second intervention, available for 5 seconds, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u352	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, I just wanted to say that I remember perfectly the afternoon in which I received the Association of Parents from the students of this school to tell us this problem. And the discussion here today and the outcome that will be achieved tomorrow, with the approval of these projects, prove that it has been worth and worth fighting, just as it has been worth the determination of these parents. Therefore, Mrs. PSD Member, what deserves respect here is the persistence, determination of students, the direction of the School and the parents. That's why we're here! [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-29.u353	Mrs. Members, with no further inscriptions, the joint debate of petition No 61 / XIII ( 1 ) is concluded. ( a ) and draft resolutions 157 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 475 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 480 / XIII ( 2. ( a) as well as our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: thematic debate on climate change under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, together with the motion for a resolution No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015 and draft resolution No 477 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — A policy to defend nature at the service of the people and the country ( PCP ). The second point follows the joint discussion of Bill No 243 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Creates the obligation to indicate the country of origin on the labelling in human consumption milk ( PSD ), in general, and draft resolution No 478 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to safeguard national milk production ( CFP ). Finally, draft resolutions 457 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government of the Republic implement a pilot project on the use of air resources for fire fighting in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PS ), 456 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 64 / 2012 and notwithstanding the adoption of regional measures, be directed towards the Autonomous Region of Madeira measures identical to those adopted in 2012 ( CDS-PP ), 474 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government of the Republic take urgent measures to cover the damage caused by the wave of fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PSD ), 476 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to strengthen fire-fighting support mechanisms in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and to the populations affected by the August 2016 disaster ( PCP ), 481 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide military air resources to the territory of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which currently carry out monitoring, search and rescue missions with intervention capacity in the fight against forest fires ( BE ), and 483 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On means of support to the Autonomous Region of Madeira with regard to forest fires ( The Greens ). At 12 noon there will be a scheduled vote, regardless of whether or not we have completed the discussion of the various items on our agenda. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 37 minutes.]]
