ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Let us begin our agenda, which is based on the debate, generally by marking the PCP, of Bill No. 310 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — prolongs for 10 years the period of application of the New Urban Rent Scheme (NRAU) for leasers with corrected annual gross income (RABC) less than five annual national minimum wages (RMNA) for leasers aged 65 or over or with a disability of 60 % or more and for non-residential leases. To present the bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thousands of people have lost their homes. Only by the action of the National Rent Balcão (BNA) more than 4400 families were cleared. Many families, in particular low-income families, elderly families or people with disabilities over 60%, live in total uncertainty and enormous anxiety because they do not know if they still have a home to live in within a year. Many families eventually left the house so they would not go into non-compliance due to the gross increases in income decided by the landlords. Hundreds of small commercial establishments, essentially micro and small businesses, which gave life to neighborhoods, towns and cities, closed and jobs were destroyed. Many groups of sports, culture and recreation have closed, breaking all the experience and social relations of a community. This is the result of the new law of urban lease, of the responsibility of PSD and CDS. The reality contrasts with what PSD and CDS stated in 2012. They promised access to a decent housing, but, in reality, what is found is the disposal of summary and the loss of housing. They promised a fairer and more balanced law, but, in reality, what happens is that many families left the towns and cities centers and went to the outskirts, due to the high costs of renting. It wasn't for lack of warning. at the time, the PCP warned of the consequences of the bill that the then government of PSD and CDS imposed against the will of tenants and tenants. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In the face of the new injustices and inequalities introduced by the New Urban Rent Regime, in the face of the problems created by this law, before the urgency of preventing people from being homeless when the transitional period ends at the end of 2017, before the urgency of avoiding the closure of more shops and collectives, the CFP has presented five legislative initiatives with concrete solutions that go to the most meaningful problems. We propose the extinction of the National Rent Balcony, a real clearance counter and all the mechanisms of its facilitation, and the replacement of the special clearance procedure by judicial means.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u3	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u4	We propose the guarantee of the reallocation of tenants and tenants after the execution of deep works; the extension of the transmissibility of housing to families in the event of the death of the tenant, of a modulation to ensure housing and stability in the lives of tenants and their families; the change of administrative procedures, in order to protect tenants and tenants; and the extension for 10 years to renters with corrected annual gross income of less than five annual national minimum wages, to renters aged 65 or over or with a disability of 60 % or more and to renters with no housing. Today we bring the debate to the Assembly of the Republic. this last legislative initiative, which, in addition to extending the transitional period for 10 years until the application of the urban lease regime in the described situations, also proposes the reduction of the maximum income value from 1 / 15 to 1 / 25 of the property heritage value and the extension of the number of steps to determine the value of income according to income until the approval of protection and social compensation mechanisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u6	With this proposal, the CFP intends, immediately, to give stability and tranquillity to tenants and tenants, in particular the families of the elderly, persons with disabilities above 60% and families with low incomes, who are in a position to denounce lease contracts, because they do not have economic conditions to support the high income values decided unilaterally by the landlords, thus protecting their right to housing. We also aim, with this proposal, to ensure stability and conditions for the development of economic activity, particularly of small commercial establishments, and also to safeguard the sport, culture and recreation groups and the identity of the neighborhoods and communities where they are inserted, of the important sports and cultural activities that offer to the population, as well as the defence of jobs. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Contrary to what PSD and CDS have said, their concern has never been with the guarantee of the right to housing, as demonstrated by the past four years. They did everything to weaken the rights of tenants and tenants, either by introducing mechanisms that led to the brutal increase in the value of incomes, the facilitation of clearance, or by withdrawing guarantees of transmissibility from the lease contract. These instruments, which at the same time completely protect tenants and tenants, reinforce the power of landlords and financial capital with speculative activity in real estate. Although there was no lack of claims from the PSD and CDS that income would be lowered, which would have more affordable prices, the day-to-day proves exactly the opposite. As we have stated, everything has not gone away from propaganda and a mess. The income values are very high and push the working families out of the towns and cities. The liberalisation of the said lease market, promoted by the previous government, will never contribute to solving the housing problem. In February 2012, the then Minister, Assumption Cristas, stated that « this is a law that is not of any particular interest». Nothing more false! It is a law made in accordance with the interests of landlords and real estate speculators. It is a real law of eviction, of which it resulted in the dumping of summaries, the denial and the right of citizens to housing, grossly disrespecting our Constitution. It is a law that ignores the specificities of micro and small businesses and, above all, of small traditional trade and restoration. It is a law that devalues, and does not recognize, the immense activity and importance of the popular associative movement, with a huge expression in the thousands of collectives in our country. It is a law that removes rights to the weakest and strengthens the strongest, a law that has led to the worsening of the living conditions of many families, which were already difficult, due to the degradation of economic and social conditions, as well as also contributing to the growth of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion; a inhuman law and without any social sensitivity. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP believes that it is necessary to change fully the design and model of urban rental in our country, where the rights of tenants and tenants are respected. They are lives, jobs, social relations and experiences that are at stake. With the initiative we are discussing today, the CFP makes its contribution to the immediate resolution of a huge concern for many families, many micro and small businesses and collectives that, after the five years of the transitional period, move on to free income, where the landlord may decide to increase the income value for unproductive amounts. What we want is to ensure that families maintain their home, in fact, in compliance with our Constitution and the right to housing that it enshrines. We intend to ensure the continuation of economic activity and the jobs of small traditional trade. We intend to save and keep alive our sports, culture and recreation communities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u7	Before we move on to the period for requests for clarification, I shall inform the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members who, together with the President of the Assembly of the Republic, are in the diplomatic gallery a delegation of the National Parliament of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, chaired by the respective President, to whom I would like a warm greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs Paula Santos, the Bureau shall register two Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u8	I shall answer together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u9	To ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to welcome the Portuguese Communist Party for this agenda. It is indeed a matter which is not only relevant as it is urgent, with regard to the need to guard up the situations of real social drama in which many families were placed with the legislation approved in the last legislation and which came to destabilize the expectations deeply. This matter is still relevant as regards the need to guard the weaker tenants, whose position has not been properly guarded, and who today look with high expectations at our work and what might be the recognition of a fundamental axis of any public policy that wants to be committed to the defence of fundamental rights. That's what this is about. It is also important, firstly, to remember that we are talking about a right with constitutional consecration and public policies that cannot forget this structural dimension and, therefore, we also appreciate and stress the relevance of this agenda. We also point out that this is a matter which is the subject of the concerns of the majority and the Government and which has already motivated the presentation of a legislative initiative by the PS Parliamentary Group, precisely to respond to what is the most urgent issue, which concerns the duration and need for the extension of the transitional period which is still in force. Indeed, in relation to tenants who are in an age-old who lack increased protection and family aggregates of lower incomes, we cannot wait for the necessary, deep and further revision of the legal regime of urban lease and we must have the ability to give the answer that is really necessary quickly. There are questions that we would like to deepen — we have all the availability to discuss them in the field of speciality — namely the duration of this period itself, the need to review the steps in which the law sets the form and the criteria for access, the need to meet, as the honourable Member has stressed, the different needs of renting for housing and non-individual purposes, taking into account the specific difficulties faced by many small and medium-sized enterprises and the many realities with historical character and importance for city centres, which are also discussed in the context of the new law. But, without prejudice to these questions that we would like to deepen, and without prejudice to cautioning the value of income practised and the effective state of preservation of buildings—a question that cannot be forgotten, because we cannot account for or try to fiction that the buildings are all in the same state of conservation when we apply rules that present themselves blind and which disregard fundamental factors—we stress the total availability for this debate, for the added step we are taking today. I am adding this framework to an integrated public policy, which never undermines the size of the lease as a fundamental matter of housing policies, which, unfortunately, has not always been the case throughout our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u11	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor also to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u12	Mrs President, Mrs Paula Santos, came here to talk about a set of five projects that the CFP presented. But, indeed, it has just been scheduled to vote on a project that is essentially limited to extending a period that already exists, a legal provision that already exists, consistent with a 2012 law, a government — of which, moreover, the CDS participated with pride — that finally had the courage to make a real lease reform. And it did so in a balanced way, not only promoting the necessary urban rehabilitation, pushing what everyone had long considered as a priority for the country, but they did nothing, which was the lease market, protecting microentities, but doing so in a socially fair way, in the sense that it was the exception of both the elderly and those who had a financial shortage, or people with special difficulties. That's why, sirs. Mr Paula Santos and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, there is no social drama. For the most deprived or older people—and, I repeat, the sole objective of the bill is to extend a period which the current law already refers to—there is, in cases of social drama, income limitation and guarantee of continuity of the house. There is therefore no drama. What is the intention of the PCP, forgetting that there is an income allowance, of generating instability in the market on the one hand, because it revises a very recent law, and, on the other hand, with this instability, to break the investment that was in place from a private point of view, and — stop! — to resume or seek to resume the new State's binding regime, which is still curious! And it does not cease to be curious, Madam Member — and perhaps that explains why the CFP, of the five-degree package you spoke about, only agenda this diploma — that what the CFP here intends to do is only trying to ensure compliance with the deficit on the part of the government. It is that what the CFP does is to put private people, those who invest in property, to do social action, which is an essential function of the State. Where is the CFP defending the social state and the functions of the State? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs Deputy, in her speech, spoke of interests. Does it not seem to you that the only interest that exists here is the interest of the CFP in pursuing who invests, who saves and who has property? That is the only interest that is being defended here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u13	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u14	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions addressed to me by the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr Nuno Magalhães and I begin by replying to Mr Nuno Magalhães. Mr President, it is very clear that this initiative is the objective of the CFP and what the CFP wants. Unlike the CDS, which weakened the right of tenants and tenants and pushed people to the streets, having been closed hundreds of small shops of traditional small trade, our commitment is to defend the right to housing, is to safeguard the economic activity, particularly of micro and small businesses, is to safeguard the collectives that are an associative structure of each community.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u15	Go read the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u16	He knows as well as I do that the result of the application of this law, which has your right and responsibility, was exactly this: it was not in the sense of fulfilling our Constitution, that, yes, it should manage the options and laws of the Assembly of the Republic, it was in the exact opposite sense that it was to deprotect people. How many and how many people left your home because they didn't have the means to pay the rent, Mr. Deputies? [[PCP applause.]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u17	This is the reality! How many and how many people today, especially the most deprived families, are with the "heart in hand" because they don't know what's going to happen to them for the year? This is the concrete reality! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] By the way, here I am quoting a statement by Mrs Asunción Cristas at the time Minister, who seems to me to reveal very well what is the real interest and the real political and ideological option on the part of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u18	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u19	She said so to the honourable Member, referring to the elderly tenants: « They do not pay because they do not want or cannot. They will certainly have to redefine their budget, it is natural that they were used to spending very little on household income and now they will become more dedicated». This is the perspective of the CDS regarding the right to housing. [[PCP applause.]] Mr President, I would also like to mention the following: the CFP has indeed presented a package of measures. We have managed this diploma in particular because we believe that this is the most urgent issue to be resolved at the moment. It is important to clarify one question: the CFP continues to completely reject this urban lease regime — indeed, we have already shown it in the past — but, in the face of concrete problems to which, contrary to the PSD and the CDS, we are not insensitive, and with the imminentness of people, in the coming year, they have to leave their homes because they have no money to pay the income, we believe that we should prevent this from happening and from bringing this initiative today to the debate in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u20	Those who can't pay anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u21	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of course this is a debate for which we want to contribute to our proposals and solutions. We are available to, in the field of expertise, we can also deepen and receive other suggestions, other proposals, listen to the tenants — indeed, as we have been doing — and listen to the traders' associations, listen to all those involved. I believe that the fundamental thing is to solve this problem that is on the table and to prevent people from losing their homes for the year, to prevent more shops from closing because of the increase in income...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u22	Exactly! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u23	... and prevent more collectives from closing because they do not have the conditions to pay the high income values that only have one objective: to accumulate the wealth of landlords, of financial capital in the area of real estate that profites from speculation and with increasing difficulties in people's lives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u24	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue today brought to debate by the Portuguese Communist Party is of the greatest importance and welcomes, by the Block of Left, agreement. The review of the legal regime of urban leases, the authorship of the PSD / CDS government, caused a negative social impact and constituted an attack on the constitutional right to housing. The project currently under discussion meets commitments already made with the Government itself in the working group on housing policy, as well as the meeting of the bill of the Left Block on the same subject also presented, in which we propose, in addition to the extension of the deadline, that the updated value of income have as a maximum the annual value corresponding to 4 % of the value of the rental. Let us be clear, the New Urban Rent Scheme has created too many difficulties and too many injustices. It is a law of absolute social insensitivity and must therefore be the target of a profound review. There are, however, some very urgent measures that must be implemented from now on and increase the transition period for the most fragile population by 2027 should be a priority. In fact, that has been the position of the Left Block. On several occasions we proposed the repeal of the law, but we did not, from now on, cease the speciality process in 2012 to present the proposal to extend the transitional period for 15 years. And this time limit, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a coincidence. It is a failed promise of the PSD government / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u26	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u27	in the previous Government's programme it was stated that the deadline would be 15 years, but when Assumption Cristos presented the law the deadline was 5 years, protecting thousands of people. This is the reality. This scheme only added difficulties to those who were already in a bad situation: people over 65 years of age, people with disabilities, historical shops and entities with historical and cultural interest, including cultural, recreational, sports and also students' republics. As a result of the previous government decision, this deadline only postponed for 2017 the actual impact of the law on the most disadvantaged layers of the population. It should not be forgotten that during the four years of application of this scheme, the National Rental Balcony has become the « National Clearance Balcony », with tens of thousands of processes and thousands of families already displaced from their homes. Those who have been attentive to reality in recent years know about the inhumane situations that have occurred throughout the country, and the example of Lisbon is quite paradigmatic of this, particularly the impact on the elderly. This law removed rights to the most fragile part in the process and gave the landlords the power to unilaterally increase incomes or clear tenants and no doubt that older people have suffered a process of discrimination. I'll leave it to the ladies. Members on the right, and more specifically Mrs Cristas, only one request for help, among the thousands we received in 2013 before the amendments made, which I quote: "I replied to the landlord within the legal period, but by misinterpretation of the portal did not answer correctly. I'm 80 years old, I don't have the conditions to pay for what you're asking me to do, and I've already been threatened with eviction. How was it possible to demand so much sacrifice from all of us and at the same time to launch a law of income which is an authentic mouse for those who do not have legal knowledge, nor are they able to consult a lawyer, and put under the bridge elderly citizens who have worked their entire lives and who thought they were safeguarded from such a situation? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Like this honourable Member, hundreds of elderly people, without the necessary legal and financial means, have fallen into the legal framework created by this law and have become in situations of social emergency. It is not too much to remember that, for four years, the Left Block reminded the author of this law, then the former Minister of Christian Assumption, of the social tragedy that was already being drawn shortly after his approval. This was the mark of the governance of the CDS-PP while he was in the government. The attack on social rights, a law by large owners, the worsening living conditions of people with less incomes, the elderly and people with disabilities and the removal of thousands of fragile families. however, like today, they never wanted to hear anyone about the reality, nor the technicians of the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana), who already warned about this situation, not the Members and Members of various parliamentary boards, nor the appeals of those who needed help, because they always preferred to ignore the reality and the consequences of your actions. That is why it is so important that we have managed to arrive at a different political moment, in which there can be a serious debate on this subject and find solutions to curb injustice but, above all, prevent new situations of injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u28	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u29	We believe that these measures are vital for the replacement of rights and guarantees to the most unprotected part in the relationship between the landlord and the landlord. Nor can a tenant remain at the mercy of a gentleman's provisions without having access to legal protection. The lease market must also have clear rules and, when there is a weaker part, that part must and must be protected. Without prejudice to other measures which we consider essential for the replacement of social justice, the approval of the extension of the transitional period of the urban lease scheme by 2027 is now essential. And speaking in dynamizing the lease market, in boosting the lease market, which is supposed to be a great argument on the right, there was no dynamization of the lease market, the policy was not dynamizing, but, yes, exclusion, expulsion of people, of elderly people from their homes, of small merchants from their shops, of students from the republics.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u31	Therefore, it is not worth ignoring reality, as they have done over the past four years, and it is time to decide whether or not they will change it, supporting these projects. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u32	For an intervention, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us discuss here again today the issue of renting, this time by presenting a bill of the Communist Party. In fact, this is a matter that has been extensively addressed and within which the PSD and the CDS-PP have introduced very significant changes, some of which have already had visible results. It is worth recalling that the national housing strategy adopted in the previous legislation had as its main objectives: the articulation of the development of urban agglomerations, urban rehabilitation, demographic and economic revitalization, as an integral part of the world of city policy, but also — and it is important to mention, because this is an essential issue — to promote access to housing and the best quality of life for citizens, through transversal measures and sustainable urban solutions. It was a strategy based on the purpose of facilitating family access to a decent housing, a structural policy that provides more opportunities and social justice to families and, above all, to young people, at the level of housing, but also at the level of residential mobility. Structural changes have long been required and necessary in the New Urban Rent Scheme, monitored and adjusted in 2014, incorporating recommendations from the generality of private entities in the sector, including associations of tenants and owners, and also from the Ombudsman's Office. It was a reform that incorporated changes to the various lease schemes, including the new supported income regime, the New Urban Rent Scheme, the conditional income regime and the income subsidy regime, and it is very important that we consider this issue of income benefit. It was a courageous reform, with more than 30 years of delay, which resulted in the dynamization of the lease market; the increase in the territorial mobility of citizens; the dynamization of urban rehabilitation; the fight against the degradation of the built park, precisely caused by the freezing of income; and the strengthening of protection for the most vulnerable families. In fact, the income allowance scheme — it is well noted! — assumes the obligation to subsidize the increase in income to be recorded at the end of the transitional period, i.e. from 2017 onwards, so that the New Urban Rent Scheme has no impact on the most disadvantaged tenants, who will continue to pay the income resulting from the currently applicable rate of effort, and this issue is essential for this debate. Here, and on the eve of the entry into force of the lease subsidy scheme, the CFP has come to propose to this House a set of amendments which essentially transfer the State's social and financial responsibility to the landlords, opting, soon, for the freezing of income, rather than opting for the income allowance, as provided for in the law. [[PCP protests.]] Where is the notion of social justice that the left so much implores? Where is the defense of the social state underlying your ideology? Where is the concern with the poor lords—yes, because there are also poor lords! — that they often do not have sufficient income to pay the IMI (municipal property tax) and property related expenses? [[PSD applause.]] The answer is simple: it is because the income allowance costs, it pays the State budget. That is the big issue we have to consider here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u35	The reform of the urban lease carried out by the previous Government had social concerns, as was well demonstrated here, through the lease subsidy. If the parties that support the government want to go further in this concern, they are in their right, as long as there are ways to do so. But if the lords are forced to practice solidarity with force and to shoulder the responsibility of the social policy of the government, that is, we cannot accept, neither we nor anyone who has the slightest decor and sense of social justice. You know why? Because we are faced with a repeated immorality, an immorality that was supposed to end after the transition period and now the left wants to prolong, exacerbating the situation of social injustice that has lasted for decades. Moreover, it is also worth noting that the perversion of this proposal is not due to the unjustified sacrifice of the lords. It also has very serious consequences for the rehabilitation of the building, urban regeneration, tourism activity, heritage conservation, the lease market, that is, it has consequences for economic activity in general. Portugal has more than 700 000 fires returned; a degraded housing park, with one third of it lacking deep works; landowners without conditions to take up the conservation of their buildings, a serious situation that matters to reverse. But, unfortunately, that is not what the government has chosen. The proposed changes are a harsh blow to the investment that was being put into effect in all areas of activity related to housing and urban rehabilitation and create a negative expectation and uncertainty that undermines the investment, growth, employment and competitiveness of the national economy. in reality, the real estate was, and I hope it will continue to be, one of the few sectors that experienced some dynamism, mainly associated with tourism and urban lease. It was no longer enough for the government to be killing the "gold hen" by charging everything that has any growth potential, as is now the case with the parties supporting the government to give the final blow in these sectors. My dear colleagues, Madam President, a society that devalues work, savings, investment, individual initiative, is a society that is doomed to failure. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u36	To request clarification, Mrs. Helena Roseta of the Socialist Party was signed. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u37	Madam President, Mrs Berta Cabral, I have heard you and I must say that we have different views. But there is one question I would like to stress. The honourable Member accuses the left-wing political forces of not being concerned about the situation of the poor gentlemen. Mrs. Deputy, that's not right. I have been doing research on this matter and it is important that we realize that, by extending the transitional period that was planned for the elderly tenants, or with disabilities, or with little income, we will deprive the landlords, particularly the poor lords, of receiving a revenue they were waiting to receive. I think we can find a solution to this problem and therefore I would like to ask whether the honourable Member is aware of the incidence of poverty among landlords and tenants in Portugal. I can point out from now on that I have been doing research and I have verified that the rate of incidence of poverty in 2014 at the level of tenants was 33 %—it is very high—and at the level of owners was 16 %, 6 %, that is, half, but it is also very high. We must therefore take this into account. [[Protests by PSD Member Berta Cabral.]] I'm asking if you have any knowledge of this and the honourable Member will answer whether you have or not. We have knowledge and we want to find a solution. It is not necessarily forcing all tenants to meet the five-year deadline, which is very short for the transition—even much shorter than your own party proposed in the electoral programme in 2011 and it was the troika pressure that forced you to pass the deadline they had for a five-year period—that we found the solution. The honourable Member is aware of Rule 65. The Constitution, of course. On so many pages, this article states that «the State will adopt a policy to establish a system of income compatible with family income ». Does the honourable Member think that income in Portugal is compatible with family income? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u38	In reply, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u39	Madam President, Mrs Helena Roseta, I am grateful for the question you raised. Of course, I welcome Mrs Roseta's fact that she is also concerned about poor gentlemen, because this is a matter which is rarely mentioned and therefore we agree on this. There is no doubt that this is a bit like management: there are aspects in which we agree and there are aspects in which we do not agree. What I must tell you is that there are poor gentlemen over 65 years old, poor gentlemen with problems and disabilities over 65 %, all of them must also be protected and I do not see that any proposals have been made in this House of the Republic. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u40	You know why? Because the law is that it should protect them and the law that is in force protects them from the transitional period. however, poor tenants are protected, with these we had this concern, because, at the end of the transition period, they are entitled to income allowance. I wonder what you have against the income allowance. The only answer I find is that you don't want to pay for it. This is the main issue. [[PSD applause.]] This is the issue that we need to take into account. Mrs. Helena Roseta, in her second question on the poor tenants, replied as follows: the value of the income allowance estimated by IHRU is in the order of EUR 23 million per year. in this sense, we have the matter properly equated and what is to be done is to comply with the law, which was approved by this Assembly of the Republic, which protects tenants and landlords and does not kick the social action and social protection of the state. But the state, because it doesn't want to pay, because it doesn't want to pay the State budget, throws over the landlords five more years of frozen income. This is the big issue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u41	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are appreciating Bill No. 310 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) submitted by the Communist Party, which intends to extend for 10 years the deadline for the implementation of the New Urban Rent Scheme, which, firstly, would like to applaud, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. And I say 'applause', because it is a fair, timely measure and is included in the Government Programme. Moreover, on page 137 of the Government's Programme we can read: « Ensuring the extension of the period of income updating in order to guarantee the right to housing, especially for pensioners, retired and over 65 years old, without prejudice to the regulation of the lease allowance », which was also included in the Socialist Party's Election Programme. On the other hand, this House generally approved Bill No 155 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), diploma of the initiative of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, concerning the regime of classification and protection of stores and entities with historical and cultural interest, draft law that is under discussion in the specialty. The content of this proposal is in line with the objectives of the Government as well as pursues objectives identified in that bill. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of the fairness, the need and the opportunity of this legislative initiative, we have already seen in this Chamber, on the right hand side, a chorus of protests, in particular with the arguments that the lease market is being called into question, which is a measure that will condition private investment, are always these arguments brought to the conclusion of these discussions. To see if this would have any reason to be, it would be important to see whether the amendments, i.e. the proposed reform that the PSD/CDS Government has tried to carry out, with respect to the legal regime of urban rent, had any success or not. The fact is you didn't, you didn't. In fact, we can say it was a real flop. In order to understand better, let us see some figures, particularly some of Eurostat. For example, our housing park in 2011 had about 25% of rental fires; today we have exactly the same percentage of fires. In other words, the PSD/CDS Government did not resolve the intended start of the lease market. What has changed on this matter? Nothing! In 2011 the percentage of rental fires at market prices was around 12, 2 % and at the end of three years this percentage rose to 12, 4 %. That is, we had an increase of two tenths. On the other hand, rents on the free market, therefore at free prices, also remained unchanged. It should be noted that, despite the propagated reform carried out, today we continue with 120 000 fires returned, which do not enter the lease market. Where are the results of this reform? These figures show that in Portugal there was no variation in the indicators to conclude that there had been any change in the lease market, i.e. there were no signs of any results of the previous government's measures. Tested the failure of the PSD/CDS government also in this chapter, what remains today are the threats and risks of its policies to one of the most disadvantaged population groups, the elderly with low incomes. Therefore, it is also important to understand the size of the group covered by this measure. Today— and since we are talking about this type of lease— 33 % of lease contracts are before 1990 and more than 36 % of tenants are over 60 years old. in particular, this legislative initiative, according to which the deadline for the implementation of the New Urban Rent Scheme is extended to allow a situation of anxiety regarding this type of population not to arise, affects 42 000 tenants, according to the figures of the Tax Authority. Ex. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is therefore necessary to respond to new housing needs. Without prejudice to the need to relaunch a social housing policy, it is also intended to create conditions for the elderly, young people and families to focus on urban centres close to work, school, trade and leisure activities. This objective requires measures to meet these needs. And these measures should always bear in mind the demand for a fair balance between the market and the social response. The revision of the lease regime is a commitment of this Government and, for the most part, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. It is therefore important to adapt the value of income to the state of conservation of buildings, thus stimulating their rehabilitation and simplifying procedures in order to accelerate the implementation of conservation works and urban urban rehabilitation operations, but bearing in mind that even at this time the rights of tenants must be guaranteed. It is necessary to simplify and reduce context costs, for example by creating, eventually, income insurance to protect affordable housing owners in the case of non-compliance risks, as well as to have to have answers to all poverty situations emerging from the problem of renting. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to reiterate that this is a measure which is widely justified for reasons of social justice and, as such, will deserve the favourable vote by the Socialist Party's parliamentary bench, without prejudice to the necessary debate in the specialty, which may lead, in our view, to the improvement of some aspects contained in this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u43	Mrs Emília Cerqueira wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernando Anastácio, allow me to begin by making a quote which I think is justified here in this House. Dr. António Costa, current Prime Minister, said at the time of the review of the income law in 2006 in relation to the previous regime, « It is a matter that has six decades and is responsible for the degradation of the real estate estate of Portuguese cities, for the abandonment of buildings and for the climate of suspicion and mistrust between tenants and owners ». [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u45	And they're scared, ladies and gentlemen. Members also said our current Prime Minister, then Minister of Internal Administration, in this same House on 20 October 2005, the following : « On the part of the landlord, it is clear that this cycle must be brought to an end, in which the State has attached to the landlords the social cost of protecting incomes». [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u46	Mrs. Members, back 10 years, we have the same discussion here, after the approval of a balanced law, which created a five-year transition period for situations relating to people with less incomes. Yes, because, with the accounting speech that you here make every day, under the cover of social protection, acquired rights, fundamental rights and the right to housing, you, under this cover, with this accounting speech every day, just want, and so alone, not to pay the income allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u47	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u48	It is that this income allowance was clearly established in the law. And it is very clear, for those who are attentive and do not fall into these demagogic processes, that the income allowance covers all cases of housing leases today under discussion and for which it is intended to extend the period of application of the New Urban Rent Scheme. Now, we understand very well, given that we are talking about tens of millions of euros, that these are properly guarded, enough for the proof of income, through the declaration of economic insufficiency. thus, these tenants will no longer be subject to income increases. Yes, sir. Members, because the difference between the increase in income that will enter into force in 2017 and the incomes should be costed by the income allowance. And the tenant who does not have economic conditions to pay will pay the same price rigorously. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u49	Turn around, the pirouettes you want in this house, and before the Portuguese, that the truth is like olive oil: it always comes to the top. And the truth is, under this cover, just and alone, you don't want to pay. They want them to be deprived of social status and to subsidize the social policies of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u51	That's what's at stake here. the Left Block and the PCP, nothing is to be said, are completely consistent—in fact, by the attack they make on private property. The PS is that it makes these real pirouettes to delete decades of policies, decades of principles that have been defending. Mr. Member, explain to me whether or not it is only this will of management to do the will to the extreme left that moves you, or whether it is the interest of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u52	It's the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u53	... when they just and just do this so they don't have budgetary expenses, because they're doing them where they shouldn't. It's this or not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u54	To reply, Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u55	Madam President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, about piruettes, in fact, we have much to learn from the PSD and the CDS. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u56	About this, we certainly have a lot to learn and we will certainly be very good students, at least to understand how it should not be done. As for the citations you have made, I must say that they are an unequivocal demonstration of the coherence of Dr. António Costa's speech, as former Minister of Internal Administration and former President of the City Hall of Lisbon and today as Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These quotations prove precisely that the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party is perfectly consistent in his thinking. In fact, if I had been attentive, both to Mrs. Helena Roseta's intervention, and to what I said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u57	And I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u58	... would realize from our words that there is an effective concern also with poor lords. It's just that if there's poor tenants, there's poor landlords too. In fact, figures were given here, precisely by Mrs Helena Roseta, saying that they were 50% tenants and 16% landlords living on the poverty line. We therefore have concerns about this, and in the debate on this matter we will bring the resolution of this problem to this House. What is at issue here today is something different. And pirouettes gave the gentlemen when they had a certain deadline in the electoral programme and then they changed it for five years — that is a piruette! [[PSD protests.]] So, about pirouettes, we're talking, it's good that you get it! On the proposals of the Socialist Party, it is not about management,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u59	...no budget, no nothing. Until as you know very well, the five-year period does not end tomorrow, it has no budgetary impact in 2017. Therefore, this is not the case. So what we are doing here today is solving a state of anxiety that you have created in many families, in the elderly, aged 65 and over, who are unable to cope with the instability that you have created them. This is the reality. This is what you don't like to hear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u60	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Paula Santos tells Mrs. Paula Santos that the law of 2012 is responsible for thousands of evictions and tells Mrs. Isabel Pires that the law of 2012 has not reached the goal of dynamizing urban rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am puzzled! I am puzzled because, as you know, the safeguard clause, which translates into a transitional period of five years, has not ended. It would end in 2017 if it were not this proposal and if it were not the announcement of the Socialist Party that it will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u62	Are you okay or against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u63	And, as it did not finish, I cannot understand, as they say, how this law of 2012 has already been responsible for thousands of evictions, or how this law could have already achieved the goal of urban rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u64	Talk to your bench! The CDS has already set an example in this debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u65	Mr Bruno Dias, listen and then speak in turn. So I can't understand it's not because of the demagogy they want here to bring. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are here once again to discuss revisions of reforms, important and urgent, undertaken by the previous Government. Since the takeover of this government and the parties that support it have not yet presented a single reform, a strategy, a vision for the country, only reverse reforms. What has happened in transport, in water restructuring and in administrative reform is what they also want to do now about renting. All entities linked to the sector — owners, tenants, real estate agents, investors — are very concerned about the instability that is being created by the government, the PS, the Bloc and the PCP. one day, it is the taxes on the sun and the sights;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u66	They were created by the PSD / CDS government in 2003!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u67	... on another day, it is the creation of new taxes on real estate, such as the addition to municipal property tax or, using the most common designation, the « Mortagua tax » provided for in the State budget proposal for 2017. However, these concerns also cover the announced changes to the lease regime, both those contained in the diploma already discussed by the PS, and the CFP initiatives, in particular in the one we are dealing with here today. As we all know, rents in Portugal have been frozen for decades. I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what has brought this positive to the country, to the population, to the tenants, to our cities? Degraded houses, emptying and degradation of the centres of large cities, house rents to shoot at very high values, inaccessible to most of the population, namely that of lower economic resources, indebted families for the purchase of their own homes, little mobility of people, with labour market consequences and access to employment. What the Country needs and what reform carried out in 2012 by the PSD/CDS government, by then Ms. Minister, Dr. Assumption Cristas, intended to achieve was the reversal of this situation, creating confidence to attract private investment for renting and the recovery of the housing park. Mrs. Members, we are no longer living in the 1970s. The world is different, the country is different and the left corner, as «the law of the wastes», are not serious and do not correspond to the reality and needs of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u68	We correspond, we correspond!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u69	What happens in these proposals, as in many others, in addition to reversals of everything that has been done—and well done—by the former Government, is a radicalization from the ideological point of view, but which then does not correspond, in practice, to the interests of the population and to the impact on their lives. contrary to what they intend to make believe — hide really! — the 2012 Act, which provides for the updating of income, also provides for a protection for renters with greater economic shortage of 65 or more years of age or persons with a disability of 60 % or more. As you well know, the law provides that, at the end of the transitional period, the State, through an income allowance, pays the difference between the value of the income updated and the value of the income that the renter can pay, taking into account its economic situation. And it's the state, Mr. Members, who are responsible for protecting everyone's right to housing at affordable prices, are not the masters. This PCP initiative, which goes even further than the one presented by the Socialist Party for months, which is part of the protection of historical stores, aims to continue to bear the costs of housing the population with lower incomes. This initiative does not aim to protect the most disadvantaged, elderly or disabled tenants, but rather to create instability and cause inequality and social injustice. Individuals, middle and reformed, who have decided to invest in the real estate market to enjoy income, in particular in their reform, which they have saved for years, will be called upon to pay, instead of the State, social protection of housing, in addition to the high number of persons and families under the condition of owners of dwellings who do not have the means to bear their costs with taxes, condominiums, insurance and conservation works. All these people will be targeted if these proposed amendments are adopted. So what these amendments have underlying is a great saving of the state at the expense of the lords. Mrs. Members, with this amendment to the lease regime, which is called surgical, the CFP brings here an old recipe that has been experienced for decades and has proved to be wrong. The latest 2011 censuses showed that there are 700 000 fires returned in Portugal, 1 million degraded fires, 80 % of the population living in their own housing, only 20 % on the lease market and 10 % of the turnover of civil construction allocated to urban rehabilitation, when the European average is 30 %. On the other hand, the indebtedness of the country and families, as a result of the credit to own-house acquisition, multiplied by almost six years in the period of 30 years, which averaged between the 1981 and 2011 censuses. Therefore, we must never agree with a reversal of reforms, which were well done and which were necessary and urgent, to return to the same income freeze policy that led the country to the situation we all know and which, as Mr Nuno Magalhães said, was the situation of the New State. They do not count on us to make it difficult for non-compliant tenants to leave their homes and lower resources with difficulty in accessing the lease market. what people, landlords and tenants need is a lease market that offers an effective, concrete and accessible response to their needs and speed of justice in settling disputes. what the rental market needs is policy stability and a strong bet on the rehabilitation of our housing park and the recovery of our cities. It is up to the State to ensure compliance with the constitutional right of all to a decent housing. It is up to the State to promote protection measures for the most deprived, in particular as regards housing. It is the task of the State to promote and support the rehabilitation and regeneration of our cities. All of this is the responsibility and mission of the State, not of the lords or individuals. That's why, sirs. Members of the CFP, we will not be able to accompany them in the demagogy that is the presentation of this bill to the Assembly of the Republic, a practice we are also used to. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u70	I've never seen the CDS as static as today! It's a statisticating fury of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u71	To request clarification from Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, Mrs Helena Roseta has been registered, but the honourable Member has no time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u72	Madam President, the Socialist Party gives Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco a minute and 34 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u73	If I understand correctly, the PS Parliamentary Group shall transfer one minute and 34 seconds so that the honourable Member can answer. So, and on the assumption that this transfer will be made, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Roseta to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u74	Mr President, it is a good practice that we can all hear and therefore ask the question must imply the possibility of an answer. The question is very simple. The honourable Member has said a number of things, some of which I do not agree with, and others are more or less peaceful. But the main question is the following: Mr says that this law that your government has done cannot be charged by evictions, because the transition period only ends in 2017. You are not looking at the number because more than 10 000 applications have already been made in the National Rent Balcony and more than 4400 have already been made. And not all of them were for failure! [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Excuse me, Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, the question is not addressed to you and, as I have not heard your side, I cannot react. Mr. Álvaro Castello-Branco knows that Law No. 31/2012 was a law full of loopholes for those who did not have legal literature. There were many tenants who were not even able to answer what they had to answer within the time limits that the previous law and who were simply cleared or saw their income increased when it could not have happened. So injustice is created. And, within this injustice, there is a situation of particular anxiety, which has to do with the people who have been waiting for the lease allowance. You have legislated the lease allowance at the end of your term of office in August, throwing it with the belly for the budget to come. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] But let me tell you that we are very interested in this - it is in the Government Programme and in the PDOs (Grand Options of the Plan) for 2017 - to review this legislation of the lease subsidy, because the lease allowance that you have created is very scarce, it is only for people who, at the end of the transition period, have that disability, or that age, or that corrected gross annual income. We must have lease subsidies for other circumstances, such as poor landlords, families at imminent risk of eviction or families who do not have a home. This is not provided for in your lease allowance law. That is why, contrary to what has been stated here, the PS is very interested in reviewing the legislation of the lease subsidy. And this law, yes, Mr, caused many evictions that should have been avoided. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u75	To reply, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u76	Madam President, I begin by thanking the Socialist Party for the time it has made available for me to be able to respond to Mrs Helena Roseta's request for clarification. I would simply like to say two things, Mrs Deputies. First of all, the National Rental Balcony, as you know very well, is for all leases and not only for contracts that the 2012 law, with the safeguard clause, aims to protect, which are lease contracts for people over 65 years of age with economic deficits, or under 65 years of age with economic deficits and with disabilities. Therefore, it is natural that in the National Rental Balcony, as a result of the lease, we call it "normal", there may be other questions. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] But what I am speaking in particular is the protection, which was made with this law of 2012, of those who are most deprived, that is, of the intention of the State to make effective social protection to the most deprived. So it has nothing to do with what Mrs Deputy was saying. In conclusion, and without abusing much of the time that the Socialist Party has now made available to me, and for them to be more content, I will quote a socialist, Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, who was at the time President of the City Council of Lisbon, in the Circle Square, where he participated, said — and forgive me this time, but now he is a socialist who is speaking, I am not: "We agree that this freezing, for decades, had a negative effect— did not enrich the lodgers, impoverished the landlords and, above all, impoverished the cities. Now, how do you turn around? It is very simple: for income to be updated, there is one of two entities that has to pay, or the tenant or the state, subsidizing the tenant. Otherwise, the landlord continues to pay. » That is exactly what we did. Thank you, Dr. António Costa, for your suggestion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u77	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the bill that today is being discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, the CFP seeks to contribute to an urgent and effective response to the very serious problems that the so-called "dispatch law" has also brought to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Our initiative and our proposal take into account this aspect, also of great importance in this debate, of non-residential urban rent, relevant to economic activity in trade, services, hotel, restaurant and drinks and in the work of local businesses that give life to the cities and villages of this country, to historical centers and not only. The CDS-PP and PSD have already come to this debate with the one-sided reading of satisfaction and satisfaction with the results of the law which they approved in the previous Government. « There was no drama! This is what they have said this afternoon; «The law is balanced! », they said recently. It is appropriate to say that, rather than anyone else, the CDS-PP and PSD themselves clearly demonstrate what interests they defend, what interests they represent and what interests they have governed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u79	When the country watched, astonished and alarmed, an authentic race in the micro and small businesses of local trade, when historical shops closed their doors, when unemployment spread and discharacterized the neighborhoods and communities, because the entrepreneurs were faced with truly inappropriate situations in the rents of the buildings, before all this, the balance they make today is enlightening: "There was no drama! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This will certainly be true for real estate funds and financial capital, but you can see how much contempt you deserve from all the micro and small entrepreneurs who have doomed to ruin. The PSD and the CDS both spoke, spoke and spoke today about stability, predictability, business environments, but, in fact, what they imposed was a law that left these entrepreneurs in a framework of total uncertainty and confronted, from the end of the line, with the closure of the companies, with the destruction of the jobs, after years of effort and even investment in the premises — often due to the obligation to comply with the rules in force in the sectors of activity they were in — at the same facilities that were forced to leave because of the situation that this law came to bring and impose. All of this has to have a consistent reading and a fair and adequate response. And the first step, the urgent action now being taken is to stop this bleeding, stop the progress of this situation and worsen these problems. Therefore, we propose the extension of the transitional period of the updated value of income from 5 to 10 years in this lease section, with the same criteria of the housing lease. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP does not intend, nor does it accept, that everything will remain the same. following this urgent response to the problems that are being put in place, we will continue to work together, listen to and take into account the contributions of the sector, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, tenants, we will continue to strive to find the best solutions to the legislative framework, with openness to the discussion on essential issues, but without losing sight of the central principles and objectives in this debate and in this matter. We will be here to deal with the specificity of the area of economic activity in each branch of activity, in each sector, of the respective framework regime and of the relevance of this matter to lease contracts, the conditions of the lease contract( duration, renewal, denunciation) or the rules applicable to demolition cases, remodeling, deep restoration, with the guarantees to be defined as regards reallocation, reallocation of the property or the compensating framework, to refer only to the main ones. But this work, which we shall be here to pursue, puts as the first priority a concrete answer that will prevent the worst, because, for the worse, it is enough. It is therefore urgent and essential to adopt this proposal which the CFP submits and which puts, with all availability and openness, for the debate in the specialty. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u80	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would naturally like to welcome the CFP for this initiative, which comes to a very delicate situation that is living a little throughout the country and perhaps with great particularity in cities such as Lisbon, which is, in particular, my city. But let me say one thing first: we are having a broad discussion here. I heard Mr Alvaro Castello-Branco and many others. Ladies and gentlemen, it was as if we were here living the moment, trying to safeguard freedom in renting, as if the discussion was between free lease and non-free lease. Let us put the points ahead: renting is free from 1990 onwards. Anyone who wants to rent a house pays the price that the owner asks for, for the time he asks, provided the person accepts, and, when that deadline is over, receives a letter saying that he has completed the lease period and that he will have to go look for another house. What we are discussing is a law based on an account adjustment that you wanted to make in your enormous neoliberal desire « wild»,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u82	So, now Dr. António Costa is neoliberal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u83	... that they took when they went to the government, making the first pirouette, which was in fact, as has been said here, to cancel the electoral commitment of the PSD, which would extend the transitional period from 5 to 15 years. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And then they wanted to make a huge adjustment of accounts with the people who were in those homes before 1990, people whose average age is not 65 but 70, 75 or 80 years old and who suddenly received cards at home saying that their income was x and that if they did not respond within a month it was because they accepted the increase in income. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u84	This was the first lever that you created and generated a huge confusion, anxiety, depression and perhaps even anticipated the end of the cycle of many people, because they are people who are in the final phase of your life. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u85	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u86	It is true, it is, Mrs. Member. And I know very well what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u87	You don't know, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u88	I'm a close-up author, and I know very well what I'm talking about. [[CDS-PP protests.]] This was such a worrying problem, that I even remember a PSD Member, in the eagerness to defend this law, say at the time: « Who can not pay the income that changes from home, because that is how the market works! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We all heard it and read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u89	That's sarjet policy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u90	So what you did was an account adjustment with people who had contracts prior to 1990 — poor or remedied people! — which has created an enormous amount of unrest to many people who were able to survive. For example, many people who live in the New Avenues area, here in Lisbon, have suddenly seen increases in their incomes that they could not afford. I know what I'm talking about, because these people came to talk to me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[And with us too!]] [[And with us too!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u91	They would come and talk to me and they were perfectly terrified of the situation. I've been with these matters for many years. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The fact is that the PSD has not been able to move, restore, honour its own word in relation to the extension of the transitional period to the 15 years, which it took on in the election campaign, and I would like to assume that it also won the elections at that time because it has committed itself to this - let us talk clearly about this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, this initiative is timely because it will end with the state of anxiety in which people live right now. He lives here in Lisbon — and I know what I'm talking about — who has always been used to living in the perspective that he could be at home until the end of his life and who now lives with the ghost of being able to get out, have to move, go to other neighborhoods, somewhere else. This, in fact, is something that cannot be accepted and which is very inhumane. With the approval of this proposal, in particular, we will return peace to people. [[Go, go!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u92	Of course, as has already been said, my party that is in favour of the income allowance. Question : Why not pay income to the owners themselves, since they are providing a social service? Oh, my God! Why not? Oh, my God! That's where you can walk. It must be realized that these people suffer from enormous financial iliteracy, do not react at the moment, they are not young people, they do not have powerful unions to protect them and the representative associations themselves are not as strong as that, they do not have "fire power", they do not have the ability to claim. Therefore, this situation is perfectly inhuman and unacceptable. I am glad that this bill has been presented, although it has already been said here that we are all available to improve it, in the field of specialty, and, of course, this income law also needs other correctness. Today, Dr. António Costa was very quoted here, but the last statements that I remember him, as President of the Chamber of Lisbon, were when he said that the previous law should be repealed. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And you know why your law should be repealed? First of all, because he did not respect the 15-year safeguard; secondly, because he removed from the coefficient of income increase the state of preservation of buildings; and thirdly, because he allowed the real scandal that is, today, people can clear themselves on the pretext of profound works. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u93	As you know, the authorities no longer participate in this process, it is enough for the technician responsible for the work, who is paid by the owner, to say that he has to dislodge the building so that people are evicted. Personally, I saw this situation in two whole neighborhoods, where people received cards saying they had to go to the street because there would be works in the building. For these three reasons, the former President of the City Council of Lisbon, Dr. António Costa, said that the law should be repealed. We must, therefore, essentially change the fundamental issues of this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u94	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: With regard to the speeches made by the Members of the PSD during this debate, it seems that the honourable Members. Members were not part of the previous government, a government that the CDS-PP was also part of, because they approved a law that they knew would have very serious negative consequences for populations with lower incomes and more disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u96	There's the income allowance!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u97	The PSD and the CDS have seen, impatience and serene, the excessive increase in incomes and continue to ignore the social emergency situations created by the Government of which they were part. however, they still don't want to do anything, because everything is fine when the interests of the large owners and real estate funds are safeguarded, which was a lot of what happened. Therefore, your position is very clear. As has already been said, and so far thousands of people have been dismissed, as a result of the approval of the new regime, the CDS-PP has seen the landlords increase incomes without people being able to respond because of the legal difficulty of the response. There were no answers in time, because, as has already been said, people did not have the capacity to give such an answer because of the legal loopholes created by this law. Therefore, they did not enter the transitional regime and thus became unprotected.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u99	This is what we are talking about with the bill that is currently under discussion, that is, it is about extending the time frame to protect these people, who are, in particular, the older ones and those who have less incomes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When it comes to the issue of the right to housing, there are other issues that we must raise in addition to the New Urban Rent Regime, which was one of the most urgent problems to be solved, since it was one of the most visible aspects of the attack on the rights and guarantees of citizens. however, there are other proposals that should be discussed if the objective is to facilitate access to the right to housing and promote really public rental policies. First, it is necessary to change the criteria for the calculation of housing rentals in order to suit the update of the value of incomes to the state of conservation of buildings. in our perspective, the so-called National Rental Balcony must be extinct, because it has never served for real lease, only to be transformed into the national disposal counter. Therefore, we also have alternative proposals, such as to forward residents in imminent clearance for proximity care, in order to find alternatives and create a lease fund or income insurance to protect people at risk of non-compliance. On the other hand, it is necessary to protect tenants in a state of safety due to deep work, because what happens, in practice, are abusive situations in which there are owners who take advantage of this argument from deep works to proceed with abusive evictions. On the pressures for urban rehabilitation, which is also very much talked about, it is important to emphasize that much of the urban rehabilitation that is seen in Lisbon and Porto will stop at the hands of real estate funds or local housing and that is deepening a process of gentrification and generalized income increase, and it is impossible not to admit this generalized increase of income. Considering urban rehabilitation as an important model to regenerate cities, we cannot continue to allow it to be creating obstacles for younger people to live in city centres, because that is what is happening today. A young person in early working life has no income to have a house in the center of Lisbon, for example. It's absolutely impossible! And they continue to deny that reality. On the other hand, the proliferation of local housing is creating social dynamics in cities that do not allow those who live there or work to enjoy the city itself. And, therefore, the Left Block also considers that there should be limitation per fireowner available for local accommodation. In other words, large owners cannot place all their housing fires intended for local accommodation, a part must always be intended for housing. We believe that urban centers exist to be lived and also to be residential areas. We cannot ignore that what is happening now puts a lot of pressure on the value of income and on the population with lower incomes. In conclusion, Mr President, we ended this debate as we began: with regard to the New Urban Rent Scheme, it is essential to amend, among other necessary measures, particularly in the prolongation of the transitional period. We speak of a law which is insensitive from a social point of view and which has disbalanced, from a legal point of view, the relationship between the landlord and the tenant. Therefore, the assurance that the most fragile part in this relationship is properly protected must be restored. And, in fact, that is the question that is put in this debate today, it is no longer one. That is, do we have PSD and CDS on the side of replacing a guarantee from the citizens or will they want to maintain this injustice? Ending with an unjust law created by the government that has most attacked the fundamental rights of the people is important and, fortunately, we are on the right track to do so. It is not possible to continue to regulate in favour of the lease market, leaving aside public policies of integration, housing and rehabilitation, which has been done in recent years. Making a way to change the law under discussion is also to make a way for urban planning that calls again the populations for city centres, with incomes accessible to all and to all, which currently does not exist because of the law passed by the previous government, and this is absolutely real, it is not worth running away from the facts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There has already been a lot of talk about urban rental, there has been a lot of exchange of arguments here and there have been a lot of inaccuracies here. It will never be too much said that, when the former Government took possession, the state of the art of housing consisted of more than 700 000 returned fires, in a degraded housing park, with one third of it requiring rehabilitation and with owners without adequate means of preserving it, in families strangled financially, indebted to the purchase of their own housing, in a market of practically non-existent rent, without demand and without supply, and in the cities depopulated. It was this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the diagnosis of the situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u102	It's true! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u103	This is the situation that the previous government has inherited. And the fact is that it was the previous government that had the courage to promote genuine reform, and the PSD bench of course is very proud of it and feels absolutely comfortable with it. A reform, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who were giving signs of meeting the objectives to which it was intended: increasing the supply of leases, dynamising the market and encouraging urban rehabilitation. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not stop in the past, let's talk about the future. Are you now extending the transitional regime from 5 to 10 years with the argument of social protection for needy tenants, as if the previous government had not taken care of it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u105	First, when we presented here, in this house. the reform, we were accused by the gentlemen of not presenting together a model of social protection to assist the lodgers by the end of the transitional period. Do You Remember?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u106	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u107	That model, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it exists, and we have also approved it. It is the income allowance that you seem to want to ignore, and that was instituted by then Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u108	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u109	... that, in the case of economic shortage, funds the difference between the income update and the amount resulting from the current rate of effort. I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in incomes — you will not like to hear this, but it is true! — by the end of the transitional period, it has no impact on renters.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u111	If you use the income allowance, you don't have any impact on renters. [[PSD applause.]] If you want to put the owners into social policy, replacing the state, that is something else, but make it clear that this results not from the absence of instruments but rather from a political, deliberate and ideological option to entitle the owners with functions that are of the State. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the income allowance is there, it's provided for by law. And I ask, why don't they use it? Why don't you guys want to pay the income allowance? We don't understand! We can only conclude that the PCP and, by drag, the Socialist Party and the Left Block are nothing to worry about the tenants, because with the income allowance to function, I repeat, they are protected against income increases. What is it, then? You really want to harm the owners, because you have an ideological agenda and the PCP has an insurmountable complex against private property which, once again, comes back here. You come from the assumption that all owners are rich and that is not exactly the case. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as if this were not enough, the Socialist Party has proposed urban rehabilitation using the money of the Social Security Stabilization Fund, pension money, that is, it will decapitalize social security to promote rehabilitation. But the ridiculous is not here: we have reached the State Budget for 2017 and the radical left parties—see! — propose an increase in property tax of more than €600 00 just for what? Just to capitalize on the social security that they have decapitalized to do urban rehabilitation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u112	It's a lack of consistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u113	This is absolutely incongruent, antagonistic and, more importantly, not serious. I wanted to say that the Socialist Party and this left-wing majority, instead of governing and offering solutions for the country, propose us a return to the home of departure, as if we were in the Monopolie. What the Socialist Party and this majority have to offer to the country is very little. It's a little bit, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u114	You don't know what you're talking about, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u115	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was not only the families who were harmed by the so-called income law that was no longer than the « layoff law », created by PSD and CDS, but also the sports, culture and recreation groups suffered the effects of this terrible mechanism that the previous government created to facilitate the eviction. This damage caused by the collectives and associations did not have an impact only on these entities—and, however, many were forced to leave their homes—and also had very negative consequences for local populations and communities, who lost an area of civic participation and enjoyment of a set of sports, leisure and culture activities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the universe of these groups and associations there are those that have their own facilities, which have been acquired with the significant effort by their leaders and with the contribution of local communities, and which, thus, have not been confronted with the problem of renting; there are those that, although in a small number, are in spaces sold by the authorities and for which they pay symbolic income, or there is no place for this payment; and then there are those who are in rented spaces and who have been severely affected by the brutal and unacceptable increase of income imposed by the previous government, the PSD / CDS. For example, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, considering the districts of Lisbon and Setúbal, we are talking about an average increase of 400 %, and there are cases with increases of more than 2500 % in the value of collective income and associations. In this regard, Mrs. Members, it should also be noted that many of the benefactories carried out over the years in the spaces rented by the collectives were responsible for the collectives, which preserved and valued the property of the landlord, which further aggravated the injustice of this law. For many collectivities this was the final slaughter. After the increase in costs, for example, with electricity and gas, which the PSD and CDS imposed, after many collectives and associations debate with difficulties to continue their activity, also associating the loss of revenue, which is not disconnected from that which was the impoverishment policy that PSD and CDS imposed on families, after all this, and in parallel, comes the so-called law of income with its gross increases, signifying the final blow to many collectivities. This law meant, for many of them, the change of facilities, leaving behind years and years of its history and of close relationship with local populations, and for others, long negotiation processes, which led, in many cases, to the suspension or closure of the activity, with the inherent damage to the community. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The more than 30 000 communities and associations that are expected to exist in the country and that are dedicated to sport, recreation, culture and even social area, the overwhelming majority of them with large tens and even more than 100 years of existence, play an invaluable role with the populations due to their proximity, continuing to be, in many cases, the guarantee of democratization of access to cultural creation and use and sports practice, constitutional rights of which the State has been irresponsible over the years. Without prejudice to the need for an intervention that puts an end to the injustices and inequalities resulting from the urban lease, what the CFP brings here today is a contribution that responds to the problems of sense by sports, culture and recreation communities, in particular with regard to lease spaces, proposing the extension of the transitional period from 5 to 10 years in the case of rent for non-residential purposes. The appreciation of the sports, culture and recreation groups, due to the important social function they play, meaning popular participation, also goes through solutions such as those presented here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u117	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : At the end of this debate, in which housing policies, and in particular the lease regime, were at the heart of the whole discussion, it remains to be concluded that we have seen this afternoon a demonstration of wills which in no way value political action in the eyes of the Portuguese. The Communist Party came here to charge the Socialist Party ;... [[PCP protests.]] ... BE came to the trailer, with a partisan strategy exclusively attached to the maintenance of power;... [[BE's protests.]] ... and the Socialist Party lent itself to a scandalous political incoherence to enter a kind of doctrinal procession led by the radical left, with a single objective — that of the political counterpart. [[PSD applause.]] For all this, it is with deep sadness that I am led to acknowledge, before all Portuguese, that we have ended this debate that is poorer than we have started it, which is not actually conceived in any democracy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: A Parliament that takes pride in its mission works in the present to build the future. A self-conscious Parliament has the clear notion that it represents the interests of the Portuguese and never the interests of this or that party. The problem arises when some parties and members of this House confuse public interests with party interests and confuse popular representation with the mere popularity of the representative. This is the case with the legislative initiative that has been at the heart of this debate: a diploma that has been extended for 10 years the deadline for the implementation of the New Urban Renting Scheme for three types of tenants already identified here. [[PCP protests.]] The CFP identifies situations which, in its view, deserve special support, but withdraws the most intellectually dishonest conclusion that this House has seen in recent years. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] You cannot the PSD, a party that watches throughout society and not only by your electorate, stop reporting today here! [[PSD applause.]] Let's look at this, ladies and gentlemen. Members: if there is a timeless truth in Portuguese politics this truth is that the CFP is a coherent party; the same means that it never changes its mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u119	That's not consistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u120	The worst thing is that you don't change your mind, but you change your mind! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] And when she changes convenience she prays for the political memory of the Portuguese to be short, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The PCP wants today a crystallized lease market, but 10 years ago, by the voice of MP Odete Santos, came here to demand a dynamic lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u121	That was another situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u122	That is, 10 years ago, with the Socialist Party in power, the important thing was to stop the New Urban Rent Scheme because, as Mrs. Odete Santos said in a debate that took place in this House on 18 October 2005, « this law would not dynamize the lease market », classifying the measure as an anti-social measure of the Government of José Socrates. Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me go! — the important thing for the CFP is to freeze this dynamism. It's weird, isn't it? It seems even anachronistic, smells like incongruence. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] But don't be scared, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because we all know the truth. The fact is that this proposal is for the Government to resign from assuming one of its responsibilities in the social state: income allowances in housing. It's as simple as this! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] This bill only serves to throw a State responsibility over the lords, and the aim is only one: the government needs to hide that it is walking, once again, to a ruinous financial hole for Portugal and the CFP has lent itself to the role of putting the privates to force the social policies that do not make the State do. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] We learned that the CFP defends a minimum state, which gives privates the functions of the State itself. Any day we'll see the PCP defending that those who have their own home are forced to pay for the police from the streets of their neighborhood! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] And all this because there is a self-denominated new state, a new time, a new left, the left of submission to radical parties, for pure political survival. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Where is the public interest in government policies? Where is he thinking about the future? Where is the correction of the structural mistakes of Portuguese society? It's a distress, sirs. Members, note that these principles do not take place in the Government of this negative coalition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u123	Whoever wants to reform well does not play a role of denial in the past; he does so with justice and social justice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u124	Anyone who wants to reform well is not guided by any desire to reach a media stage; do so in behalf of people. But only electoralism takes place in this government, because maintaining power is more important than people and national interests. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs a lease market because only it offers us alternatives to access to housing. Our obligation was to continue the work to give it more breath, until, by definition, the lease market is more agile and more dynamic than the home market itself. But what the PCP and the other sides on the left want is the reversal of rental policies, which represents nothing more than a disastrous civilizational backwardness. [[PCP protests.]] No country in Europe affords the luxury of freezing the lease market. No country in the world can facilitate access to housing without a rental market and Mr. Members of the Communist Party are destroying him. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] With this diploma, which today is subject to discussion, you are not defending an alternative, not a new generation of housing policies, nor are they defending the poor, nor the tenants, as they want to appear here. Yes, yes, they are calling into question the fulfilment of the right to housing enshrined in our Constitution, contrary to what they so advocate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end with the strengthening of three key ideas that mark the PSD position in this debate: the PSD wants a truly dynamic urban lease market that gives life to cities and is an alternative to home purchase; the PSD rejects forcing private people to make social security; the PSD — and the whole country — rejects the use of such sensitive materials as this one, such as the right to housing, for the use of any first time on the political and media agenda. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u125	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u126	Mr President, Mrs Emília Santos, as regards the intervention she has just made, what we find is that it was simply a set of statements on intent proceedings, of atoards to the CFP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u128	... that we consider to be deeply regrettable, but these statements...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u129	Just the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u130	... stay with you and only with you and with your bench. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u131	No, you're staying with the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u132	Madam Member, the reason why the CFP devoted this debate is, in fact, due to the concern with people, which I have not seen in one line of speech. He made a set of arguments, of falsehoods, of pretexts, he spoke of the advantages and great improvements that your lease law has brought to the country, but, Mrs. Deputy, we, in the CFP, bring only concrete problems. What does the honourable Member have to say to the people who have already left their home because they had no money to pay the income that was imposed on them? [[PCP applause.]] What does the honourable Member have to say to the families of elderly people who live in enormous anxiety because they don't know what's going to happen to them because of your law which, from 2007 onwards, threw them into the free lease? What does the honourable Member have to say to small shops and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are making a huge effort to continue their economic activity, to safeguard jobs, and that many have already closed and many see themselves in the eminence of closure by your law? [[PCP applause.]] What does the honourable Member have to say to the many collectives who play a fundamental social role in our country and who also, by your law, many have already closed or are in the eminence to close? These were the answers that we would like to hear from the PSD, because on the side of the PCP we bring concrete solutions to concrete problems and not vague statements about vague objectives which, essentially, led to the deprotection of tenants and tenants, have called into question the right to housing. The honourable Member has also invoked this same right of the Constitution, but let me tell you that the practice of your government was exactly the opposite. Do you know what it was? Clear! Clearing was the result of your policy! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u133	In reply, Mrs Emília Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u134	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I am not going to say that I am pleased to register your question; it is indeed your discomfort and the discomfort of your bench. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u135	The honourable Member asks us to bring the problems here, but we do not bring the problems, bring the solutions... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u136	Exactly! That's the big difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u137	They've created new problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u138	... and we always work on solutions. We are looking for solutions and we have set an example in all the discussions of the legislative initiatives proposed by the majority banks. I must also say that the PSD brought here, and I pointed out - several solutions, such as the income allowance - but we are here, because this has already been discussed today - and I also remember that the PSD proposes a dynamic lease market...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u139	They're full of dynamism to the eye of the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u140	...because that's what's at the base of everything, of all the city policies. The PSD rejects that private individuals replace social security. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u141	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u142	The PSD rejects that the PCP bench and the rest of the left benches take advantage of these matters of extreme sensitivity, such as social housing, to make political and media use. That's what it's like to regret. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u143	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Helena Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to make a telegraphic speech, just to draw some conclusions from the debate we have been working on today. First conclusion: may less-income tenants, over 65 years of age or with disabilities be calm because there is at this moment in this House a majority able to tell them that, for more than five years, they have their home guaranteed and their income also. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Second conclusion: the PSD can take due note—it is in the Big Plan Options for 2017 and has been reaffirmed here today by the bench—that the Socialist Party is available and interested in moving in the legislation of the income allowance so that it can provide for other situations that were not provided for in your legislation and indeed be an instrument of social justice and greater access to housing for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third conclusion—and with this end: you can be sure that we will discuss the New Urban Rent Regime again, because there are matters that we have to revisit. You have ended the link between income value and state of conservation and this is neither a policy of renting, housing, city preservation, nor urban rehabilitation. We'll have to get back here and we'll be here soon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u145	For one last speech, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this debate, what we have noted is that both PSD and CDS are deliberately ignoring the difficulties with which many families today live, precisely because they do not have stability, tranquility and what reigns is uncertainty. The issues we have raised here, about how we will solve these concrete problems, PSD and CDS have insisted on the same side, that of rehabilitation, which we consider necessary to promote, but not at the expense of the removal of families and the closure of shops and collectives, which is what is happening, in practice. They speak in fair law, in balanced law, even mentioned that, when this law was discussed, in 2012, one of the major problems was that of laziness and the cost of clearance actions and we understand why—the result is, indeed, in view. When they come to bring questions related to the rehabilitation and the lease market — the so-called lease market — what we see is that you do not accept that today, if you are discussing safeguarding and protecting the rights of tenants and tenants who are contrary to the interests that you wanted to preserve, that of the capital, that of the real estate funds, which have no face. But these people have faces, they are flesh and bone, they've already had a working life,... [[PSD protests.]] ... and now, who should be in a situation of stability and quiet, nor restless sleep can manage because, indeed, it is on the table, on top of your head, this great nightmare that is to come to lose your home. Also in relation to the enormous effort that many and many people, also face-to-face—we can identify them in every neighborhood, in villages, in cities,...—, they do to keep their activity, to give life to our localities, to our neighborhoods, you have said nothing. It is clear what interests you are defending. Clearly, it is not those whom the CFP is defending today with the proposal it brought to this debate. Mr President, in conclusion, I wanted to leave one last word. from the PCP, we consider it urgent that the Assembly of the Republic immediately contribute to the resolution of these problems and provide a guarantee of stability in the lives of these people, ensuring that their right to housing is not concerned, that they will not lose their dwellings and that, effectively, as regards economic activity and collectives, they are also safeguarded. Finally, Mr President, as I said, we want to make a serious contribution to this debate with concrete solutions, listening to those who are the actors of the sector — the tenants, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the Associative Movement — all those who can contribute so that we can effectively solve this problem, one more that was created by the PSD and the CDS, because they did not bring any solution here, what they created was more problems that did not exist and that we are now willing to solve it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the agenda of this plenary meeting. I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file which has, however, entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u148	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the project of lein.o 330 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers ( Tenth Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ) ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission and draft resolutions 520 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the right to reform without penalties for professions with age limit for their exercise ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 521 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the end of the demolition process in the boreholes of the Formosa River ( PCP ) and 522 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the Convent of San Francisco in Portalegre, in the list of buildings that integrate the REVIVE ( PS ) project, which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-20.u149	The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: from the first point there is the general discussion of Bill No 300 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the national cadastral information system ( SNIC ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) together with draft resolution No 513 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to implement the rustic register in Portugal ( CFP ). of the second point is the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 358 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Students with special educational needs in higher education ( PS ), 511 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — By a public and inclusive education in higher education ( PCP ), 512 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — For greater inclusion of students with special educational needs in higher education ( PSD ), 514 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — answers at higher education level for students with special educational needs ( NEE) ( The Greens), 515 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government draw up an action plan to enable students with special educational needs to be accessible to higher education ( PAN) and 516 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — Support for students with special educational needs in higher education ( BE), together with the general discussion of lein.o 321 / XIII projects ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exemption of propines in the first and second cycles of higher education for disabled students ( BE) and 329 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Effective accessibility for all students with special educational needs in higher education ( NAP ). of the third point is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 308 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to the Electoral Law of Local Authorities, approved by the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( BE), 318 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( Electoral Act of the Bodies of Local Authorities ), concerning applications by groups of electors ( CDS-PP ) and 328 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the Electoral Act of Local Authorities, simplifying and clarifying the conditions for applications by groups of citizens and extending the scope of the Equality Act ( PS ). The fourth point follows the assessment of draft resolution No 491/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the budgetary allocation of the Rural Development Programme ( CDS-PP ). in the fifth point, without time for discussion assigned, are scheduled the motions for resolutions 17 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part, signed in Luxembourg on 10 June 2013 and 20 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the European Satellite Navigation Programmes, signed in Brussels on 18 December 2013. At the sixth point, the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2017, also without the allocated discussion times, is followed. under point 7, the President of the Committee on European Affairs, of the text, of the initiative of the Committee on European Affairs — in the context of the Green Card procedure (strengthened political dialogue ), recommends that the European Commission promote, monitor and monitor the correct and effective implementation of the instruments and mechanisms created for cooperation in the field of taxation, more efficiently addressing tax evasion, replacing draft resolutions 300 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the Community Legal Framework in order to increase transparency in financial transactions ( PSD ), 317 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends strengthening and deepening of European coordination and action on transparency in taxation and financial transactions ( PS ) and 362 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to increase the coordination of European action in the area of tax transparency and the fight against tax evasion ( CDS-PP ). Finally, there will be a vote at 12 noon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 7 minutes.]]
