ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 32 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Mrs. Members, the slight delay with which we started this session was due to the fact that the hearing of the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, about the State budget, which took place in this same Chamber, had it extended longer than was expected. Before we go into the agenda, I ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization informs of the expiry of the procedure relating to the assessment of Decree-Law No 39 / 2016 of 28 July, which amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March, as amended by Law No 64 -A / 2008 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 8 / 2012 of 18 January [ Parliamentary assessments n. 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ), given that the proposed amendments have been rejected within the Commission. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 331 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend Act No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), establishing definitive reductions in public grants for the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns and at the ceilings of election campaign expenditure ( CDS-PP ), 332 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Revoke some of the benefits of political parties provided for in Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, and reduce the values of the financing of electoral campaigns ( PAN ), 333 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of 10 % deduction on the grant of political parties for another two years ( PAN ), 334 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Obligations to assess the environmental impact of oil and natural gas extraction prospecting operations ( BE ), 335 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection of individual and common water rights ( establishes the fundamental right to water and sanitation and provisions for the protection of that right, as well as the right to water as an environment and the rights common to water and public property of water as a resource and its management in the collective interest, hierarching the use of water and preventing the privatization and marketing of water services, public infrastructure and the water domain ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 336 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Reduce public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns ( PCP ), 337 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Revocation of Decree-Law No 109 / 94 of 26 April which regulates the access and exercise of exploration, research, development and production of oil in Portugal ( PAN ) and 338 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In order to make the environmental impact assessment mandatory for the exploration and research phases of hydrocarbons, it promotes the third amendment to Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October 2013 establishing the new legal regime for environmental impact assessment of public and private projects likely to produce significant effects on the environment ( The Greens ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 523 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government enhance the use of all available mechanisms for water level control and acts to speed up the de-absorption of the Aveiro River ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 524 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Because of the need to solve environmental problems in the Formosa River and for the suspension of the demolition announced on the Isles of Barriers ( The Greens), 525 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a new form of updating the values of cooperation agreements with social sector entities ( PSD ), 526 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a new model of State financing for the social and solidarity sector with regard to the use of social services and equipment ( CDS-PP ), 527 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value long-term contributions ( BE ), 528 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of contracts for prospecting, research, development and production of hydrocarbons in Algarve and Costa Alentejana ( The Greens), 529 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt new energy options and carry out a rigorous and independent assessment of the prospecting, research, development and oil production contracts in the Algarve ( PS ) and 530 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around the requalification and enhancement of the Formosa River ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We will move on to the first item on the agenda, which consists of the current debate required by the PSD, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the subject : « The reality to be imposed: the implications of budgetary seizures in public services ». To open the debate, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The debate today, promoted by the PSD, could not be more timely and important. We watch every day as the goal of the deficit, which became the first and last objective of this majority, undermines the quality of public services provided to the citizens. Despite the complicity silence of the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), bought with revisions of contracts concluded by the Portuguese State and with the distribution of bandages — small, it is true! — by their customers, the cases are so serious and so frequent that they cannot be heard anymore. The lack of doctors and nurses causes chaos in emergencies—and still without the flu outbreaks that appear every winter. Expectations for surgeries, even for emergencies, are much higher than recommended, with unnecessary suffering for patients and family members. The occupational orders of the health sector joined, on an unprecedented initiative, asking for an emergency programme. In education, there are schools that close because of the lack of employees who have ceased to ensure the much-needed extension to many parents. There are closed gyms and libraries, schools that demand money to pay water and light accounts and try to negotiate payments to benefits from suppliers. There's no money to buy the most basic equipment. of the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) there are almost no news, only sporadic apparitions to pretend that they care about public school. Public transport is on the verge of chaos, causing serious problems to the people and giving the country a very bad image to tourists. Faced with the lack of tickets on the Lisbon metro, the Minister of the Environment complains that he had had chance. The infrastructure of Portugal states that the extraordinary seizures imposed upon it strongly condition its activity, denouncing the impossibility of completing contracts, even in the compulsory preservation of roads and railways. With everyone's safety at risk, will we hear another minister say that there was a chance of an accident?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u6	The Government repeatedly guarantees that there are no captives in education and health. How then does the government explain the succession of problems in these two areas? If it's not the lack of money that justifies the problems, what is it? Another succession of tares? Mrs. Members, the reality is imposed beyond the rhetoric and apologies of the left majority, beyond the complicit silences of the parties that in recent years have promoted demonstrations, strikes and protests for far less serious things, always with the accusation that the right will end the National Health Service, with the public school, with public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u8	Now that the National Health Service is really involved — and it is the professional orders that say so — that public school and the quality of public services in general deteriorates, where are your convictions and commitments with voters, when there are no magistrates in the Public Ministry, when there are no nurses, when do the government need to say that prisoners' meals are not at risk? The complaint is no longer appropriate, you can no longer blame PSD and CDS. It's your responsibility. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But in addition to explaining what causes serious problems in health and education, since it claims they are not captives, the government must clarify before Parliament and the country where they affect the captives of EUR 445 million, presented to Brussels as one of the measures to ensure the achievement of this year's deficit goal, and that they become permanent because the government wants it to count as a structural measure. What expenditure should be paid with these EUR 445 million, which, after all, will not happen now or ever? The lack of information in the report of the State budget proposal for 2017 is not a chance, nor a delay, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The serious updating of the budget programme expenditure projections would leave it to the public to whom the cuts will fall. Will it affect justice or prison services? Will it prevent the repair of ambulances or renewal of the INEM fleet ( National Institute of Medical Emergency )? Are you going to reduce the resources available to the police? Will the country's defence commitments be called into question? We have a right to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u10	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are limits to the concealment of reality and lies are always short legs. The national emergency was surpassed when this government took possession and the blind cuts of expenditure that we witnessed are only and only the result of bad political decisions. The economic model failed, the promised growth did not happen, and this is the result. The PSD welcomes the Government's statement of commitment to the rules of the budgetary treaty, but these options do not guarantee compliance with the commitments nor preserve the quality of public services. Continue to hide the incidence of captivating, continue to deny the information that allows voting by Parliament, try to mislead reality for a few more days or weeks do not disguise the in disguiseable : PS, PCP and Block failed roundly in their economic and budgetary strategy. They try to remedy the damage in the worst way possible and end up condemning public services to situations that neither the pre-bancarrot nor the troika program have ever provoked. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This may even be a new time. There's even a turn of page. But, unfortunately, it's to get all of us so much worse. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u11	Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since yesterday, when we became aware of the intention of the PSD Parliamentary Group to mark this debate, we have wondered why the party that led the biggest attack on public services has been calling for it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u13	It's because we're so much worse now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u14	What were the reasons that led the party responsible for reducing public officials by more than 70 000 and 30 000 teachers, the emergency chaos party, the closure of hundreds of schools and more than 40 courts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u15	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u16	... the party that created an environment of instability in public service in Portugal, having the record of strikes of the history of our democracy,... [[PSD protests.]] ... harming public services... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to mark this debate 15 days after your partner has already held a debate on the same subject on the budget debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u17	It's because we're so much worse now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u18	We can only find two possible reasons: one of them is the PSD's inability to debate the State Budget for 2017, which forced us to invent a theme to try to focus the attention of a Budget which, we understand, is difficult for the opposition. How are we going — the PSD thinks — to discuss a budget that provides for the reduction of the tax burden... [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u19	... when again in the 2015 2017 Stability Program of the former Minister of Finance Maria Luís Albuquerque predicts an increase in tax burden? How will a budget be attacked that not only reduces the tax burden, but increases social benefits to combat poverty,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u20	... which increases pensions to 1, 5 million pensioners who, with pensions of 275 €, 300 €, 380 € and contributions careers of 20, 30, 40 years, had the pensions frozen for four years and would continue frozen for another four years? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is clear why the PSD held this debate. This is a plausible reason. The second, also acceptable, may be the inability, for some, to understand and even to irritate others, to understand how a government supported by socialists, communists, bloggers, environmentalists prepares to meet the budgetary goal agreed with Brussels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] How are they the first to do it without a corrective budget? How, after 12 Budgets, in which eight were Reformary Budgets, are socialists, communists, bloggers, more The Greens, to meet the agreed goal with Brussels, without cutting wages, without cutting pensions, without brutally raising taxes? How are they getting? This is also a plausible reason why the right does not want to do this debate, because what happened was that the PSD made a bet in a single speech saying that this would not work, that it was not possible, that there would be a disaster by turning around the corner, that there would be a second rescue, that would need additional measures, that would need a plan b,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u21	That's what we're waiting for!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u22	...that the devil would come... but he didn't come.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u23	He's totally stuck to the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u24	And then the PSD strategy is: public services. What's the reason? Captivating. Here you go. It's the captivating! What are captivating?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u25	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u26	It is a budgetary management instrument. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u27	I'm going to use another term, Mrs. Minister... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u28	It was for almost four years. As I said, capitulations are day-to-day management measures. That is exactly what the PSD parliamentary leader said at the end of 2015, when we had as a measure to try to meet the deficit below 3% in 2015 freeze the pending decommissioning processes. What did the PSD say? That this was routine management, daily. Well, that's what we're doing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u29	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u30	...is budgetary management. Captivating: EUR 445 million. This is what is now guaranteed, negotiated, agreed with Brussels for 2016. In 2015, was it less? Don't! It was 543 million captivating. In 2014, was it less? Don't! It was even more: it was EUR 578 million captivating. The speech for today dies, there is no basis! [[P.S.'s applause.]] You, in addition to cuts in wages, pensions, rights, tax increases, captivated more, and failed budget targets! Are public services okay? Don't! They have a lot of problems. Did you find out now? Did the de-investment in transport, education, public health find out now? There are problems. There is no doubt that if there is any party that wants to protect, defend, preserve, the social state and public services is this. I end up with a challenge to the PSD: in opinion studies, in surveys that you ask the Portuguese people in whom they rely most to defend the National Health Service, the public school and the public pension system. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u31	The Bureau has neither Mrs nor Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen... It's gonna be a day when we're right ahead. And why not today? There are several parties that have not yet spoken. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u32	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for an explanation to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u33	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u34	Mr President, this strategy of the other parties in this House is beginning to be used to protect registration. In fact, it is already the last time that Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u35	This is not an appeal to the Bureau, it is an intervention, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u36	No, Mr. President. It is an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. Mr President, I would like to say to you that, as Mr President and all parties well know, there is a practice instituted by the Leaders Conference that the party on which the initiative is scheduled should close the debate. The PSD Parliamentary Group joins in this debate with the commitment to speak now, if no other party joins below.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u37	All right. The challenge is done. Any match if you want to sign up? [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u38	Mr President, I understand that the matter is uncomfortable for all those who now have the responsibility to govern and make decisions, which is not only the PS, it is also the Left Block and the PCP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u39	It is true that it is the second time, in 15 days, that we are having a current debate on the same subject, but it is no less true that the seriousness of the situation and the point at which several public services have arrived well justify that we debate not only 15 days in 15 days but perhaps every week. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u40	Madam Member, I am sorry to interrupt you, but there is a small problem: it is that the current debates are for a fortnight and therefore they could not be every week. [[CDS-PP and PSD protests.]] It is only tomorrow that, if we were to be strict, there could again be a debate today. But please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u41	Mr President, I am very grateful for your correction and clarification, but I was talking about the material discussion, as I suppose everyone in this House has understood. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And this discussion can be made, as it is obvious and evident to any Member, with the use of various regiment figures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u43	I thought it was obvious, but it was good that it corrected and clarified, because it could not be. In any case, and continuing, it does not cease to be extraordinary that parties that previously devoted so much time to this matter, as was the case not only of the PS, as of the PCP and the Left Block, now do the most absolute silence. Nor does it fail to be extraordinary that the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, who, before, had so many concrete solutions to the problems, has now only a great deal of speech, but with regard to serious problems such as, for example, if in a hospital a machine is broken and it is necessary to consult it, the Secretary of State would say that this is not possible without the permission of the Minister, or even if a school is closed because there are simply no assistants to take care of children, the Secretary of State and the Government have zero to say and answer these problems. Mrs. Members and Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you want to keep exactly where you are, and to that end I understand that, particularly in the area of transport, concessions should be made to trade unions. And there is no doubt that the fact that the unions have left the unions satisfied and have chosen measures such as those of 35 hours allows them to remain there. But, Mr. Secretary of State, the price of the choices of your government and the left that support it is badly served users and a higher bill being passed to the taxpayer. It is regrettable that this fact is simply indifferent to you. Secondly, I would like to say the following: much has already been said about the fact that this year's budget simply does not talk about the implementation planned for 2016 — is the so-called 'hidden roll'. Now let's not talk about what they're forecasting for 2016. What I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, is if it is not by chance that you are not saying this because, from the moment you know what the execution is planned for 2016, we will also know what the real cuts you made in 2016. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u44	Well, well! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u45	You'll know, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u46	Finally, because I already know and have heard the argument "no, no, you are wrong, there are no captivating in health and education", well, then there is a much more serious thing: it is subordination and simple irresponsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u47	Because the problem — you understand this once and for all — is the fact that the school is closed and not if the reason is capitulation or subordination.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u48	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u49	Today neither the government nor the Bloc nor the CFP should leave here without giving an explanation to the Portuguese for what is actually happening in public services. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u50	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u51	Now you'll talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Captives are, yes, and we must admit it, cuts in public services. That is why we criticise captivating, which is why, so far, there is no debate in which we have not asked where they are being made and what services they affect.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u53	Do you have the answer or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u54	What is difficult to understand is how Member Maria Luís Albuquerque can, who in 2014 captured 576 million euros, now criticise seizures of 475 million euros. How can the PSD now appear, dressed as a public service defender, concerned about the quality of public services, with the happiness of public servants, with the ability to defend the public service, when did everything to humiliate them? Everything did to humiliate them when he cut wages, when he sent hundreds of social security workers to requalification with the only goal of being fired, when he took part in social security and hand-delivered them to private institutions without transparency, without anyone realizing what was being done, when he caught up in bits of the SNS (National Health Service) and handed them over to mercy, breaking the essential principle of the SNS and its public status, universal and free, when he increased moderate rates, when he cut in health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u55	What now? Talk about it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u56	...more than the troika even recommended, and placed Portugal on the international OECD radar by the health cuts that happened in the last four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u57	Stop talking about the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u58	How can the PSD now come to worry about public officials when it created a war in the country against public officials,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u59	I'll explain it slowly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u60	... convincing or wanting to convince the precariousness of this country that the fault of its precariousness was the fact that public officials had more rights and therefore could very well be cut in wages, rights, meal allowance, career progression, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u61	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u62	...in everything possible to cut public servants. How can the PSD now come to worry about transport, after so many cuts in transport and after they had cornered the workers on strike and the unions that protected them, when what these workers were saying was precisely that the cuts of the former Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro were questioning the quality and safety of public transport? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u63	There's never been a lack of tickets!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u64	It was these workers — public officials — that the PSD and the CDS had collided and that every day or every week they had come to say that the fault of the degradation of transport was those employees when, in fact, the fault was for the cuts of your government. It was these workers, I repeat, who before, as now, defend and defend public services [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mrs. Members, of course they have the legitimacy to speak in the Assembly of the Republic, as we all have,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u66	...but they have no political legitimacy to defend public services. They have no political legitimacy, because there has never been a government in Portugal that has attacked the public service so much. So they don't have that legitimacy, and she's not recognized you. But we can also go to the bottom of the question: what you are. Ladies and gentlemen are here to criticise captivating. Captivating that they did, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u67	But it didn't go that way!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u68	He's grown up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u69	The underlying problem here is a budgetary consolidation that places Portugal with the largest primary balance in Europe. The Left Block is against this process, it is against the budgetary treaty and it is against this budgetary adjustment...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u70	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u71	...that, we think, shouldn't be happening at this rate. And we are consistent with that criticism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u72	They're not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u73	The PSD problem is that it is not against this adjustment and therefore has no alternative to propose. It has no alternative, and that is why it clings to these cases, to the 'homes', to the execution, to what is happening. [[PSD protests.]] He has to invent himself and dress up as a public service defender because he has no alternative to show the country. In fact, if you were in the government, you would not increase the solidarity complement for the elderly, you would not increase the social income of inclusion, you would not increase the pensions, you would not lower the IRS and you would keep the same cuts. Therefore, what actually irritates the PSD — and that is the bottom line —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u74	What annoys you is your hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u75	...is today not having an alternative for the country. And that is very clear and very obvious in all the budgetary debates we have had so far. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u76	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: Truly, this debate is not intended to discuss seizures nor to seriously discuss the problems of public services, because this is really not the intention of the PSD. The intention of the PSD is divided into several other sub-items. The intention to seek to transfer to other responsibilities that are yours and the intention not to want to assume the responsibilities that they have in relation to the problems that exist today and that they will certainly continue to mark the next few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u78	Now it's our fault! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u79	Because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the process to which the public services were subjected, exhausted from the financial resources they needed to function in conditions, exhausted from the financial resources they needed to ensure the investment that prevented the obsolescence of equipment and infrastructure; the problems that the public services had in the provision of health care, in the proper functioning of schools, in social security services, of as many and as many public services as transport are not problems today and will not end today because the consequences of the policy that has been followed for years, in particular in the last four years with the policy of the previous government and the implementation of the troika pact, will continue. Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, instead of the charges she has made of the rostrum, should do my own fault and assume the responsibilities...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u80	It's assumed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u81	... that, as the former Minister of Finance, has in the situation in which the country is today. [[PCP applause.]] There is one aspect in this debate which is truly dramatic and which results clearly from the intervention of the PSD. The PSD has no concern about the difficulties faced by users of public services, has no concern about the problems faced by workers of such services and in this debate said zero about the solution to these problems and the response that users and workers need.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u82	You're in government now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u83	It is obvious that it is in the genetic burden of the PSD, which by liquidating health services, liquidating schools, liquidating public services, of course now could not, seriously, be said to be concerned about its functioning and those who depend on the proper functioning of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u84	Now they're being liquidated!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u85	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, we are well aware of the problem of capitulations because they are an instrument used by several governments over the years to introduce cuts which, not being expressed in the State budget, eventually undermine the functioning of the entire Public Administration, in particular the central administration. But we also know the reality we faced. I will no longer discuss the problem that captivating has taken place in recent years, particularly under the responsibility of the former Minister of Finance, today Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, because this issue has already been addressed here, but I would like to remind you of other concrete aspects regarding the effects of seizures and cuts in public services. Lack of doctors and nurses, do you say anything, Mrs. Maria Luís Albuquerque? Maybe, you might not say. Do you know what your government colleague, at the time Secretary of State for Health, said, faced with a television report that reported the miserable situation of patients, piled up in hospital corridors, with the chaos of emergencies? What Mr. Secretary of State said was as follows: « What we saw were well-installed people». [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u86	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u87	I mean, it's okay now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u88	"What we saw were people in articulated beds, with oxygen posts, modern hospitals..." This was the response that the government that you were part of gave to users who were piled up in hospital corridors, because emergencies did not work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u89	Is that over? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u90	And it didn't work, you know why? Because your concern about the functioning of public services was zero! What you wanted was for public hospitals to work badly so that people who had money could resort to other solutions, but did not get an answer in public services. [[Protests by PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares, beating hands at the end of the bench.]] We are well reminded of the difficulties experienced by patients with hepatitis C, for lack of response in the National Health Service, because you have prevented the National Health Service from having the necessary means to respond. We remember the reports of the parents, who had to organize themselves to have the canteens of the schools working, because you withdrew workers from the schools, because you prevented the schools from working in conditions, withdrawing their employees, withdrawing their technicians, withdrawing their teachers. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We are well reminded of all that has been done, for example, in relation to public transport, not only by the examples that have already been brought here, but also by the contempt with which the former Government has dealt with the demands of workers, who have often joined their professional demands to the demands of users for better transport services, for more appropriate times, for investment in infrastructure and equipment. You, at that time, when you could have given an answer, the only one who gave was contempt for the workers and the users. Therefore, we realize that they bring here, cynically and manipulatively, the fair concerns that the people have, the fair concerns that the users have, the fair concerns that workers have with the need to provide the public services with the means necessary for them to function properly with quality and in a manner appropriate to the needs of the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u91	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u92	I shall conclude, Mr President. These just claims that people unfortunately only receive cynical manipulation and instrumentalization from the PSD, because to solve this you say nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u93	As you can see now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u94	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u95	I leave these last words to you, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque: as happened when you were a minister, you must continue to see the CFP giving voice here to all those who fight for quality public services and try to solve the problems, because that is what we have done, contrary to what you have done. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u96	Now it's okay what he said was wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u97	You have the floor for one speech, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u98	Mr President, I believe that the Greens should explain to Mr President because he has put a challenge here to the parliamentary groups, when there were no entries for interventions, in order to get the parliamentary groups to sign up. I want to tell Mr President that at the time I didn't sign up because I didn't know what I meant, but because I was looking for a qualifier for what I had just heard from Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque. [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] And it was difficult because, of course, it is up to us to find qualifications that fit well into the parliamentary language. So see, Mr President, that the one I have found and which, I think, is very well suited to what we have just heard is a great, but great rejection, Mrs Deputies. Is that all right? It's appropriate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u99	How long did it take you to find the qualifier? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u100	I had to find a qualifier that was appropriate for Parliamentary language, Mr. Well, whoever fell here in parachute and heard Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque say: "Well, if that woman was a ruler, she certainly got a grip on an absolute improvement in public services! That woman did what she could and could not for the improvement of public services! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u101	He saved them! You saved them from bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u102	Well, it happens that the Portuguese have not fallen into parachute here and have coldly known the outcome of the policies that Mrs Deputies has developed in our country. The Portuguese know that you were one of the protagonists of the greatest attacks that there is memory of public services in Portugal. Mrs Deputies, the Portuguese people remember, because they lived in the skin, the chaotic emergencies, the operation and closure of schools, the closure of courts, the absolute de-investment in public transport and the demand for privatization. Mrs. Member, this memory, no matter how hard you try, will not be able to erase. But next, the honourable Member ends with a fantastic thing, which is to welcome the rules of the budget treaty, when these rules are of the greatest constraint to the development of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u103	But do you not now support the budget treaty? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u104	Don't tell me you haven't found out yet, sir! In fact, it's unbelievable! Therefore, the honourable Member now says, in the opposition, something he did not do when he was in government, but he continues to welcome the rules of the budget treaty, which are indeed a brutal obstacle to the development of the country. There is no other qualifier than a brutal rejection of what the honourable Member today had the opportunity to do, seeking the Portuguese to erase reality from memory, but we will contribute so that this does not happen. I believe that it is also essential for each party to say what it considers about the state of the situation and what it has done about the situation. Is there a malfunction in public services? Of course I do. Are we working so that this deficit can be overcome? Obviously so, because what we were saying when you were government is what we say and we do now when you are in opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u105	Don't! Deceive yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u106	What we have done with the government — please note that they do not find any resemblance to what I am going to say with what we were saying when you were government — is precisely saying that we need more civil servants. Removing public officials means degrading public services. When we provide the necessary public services of human resources, of course they work better! The Greens therefore called for this State budget — and we will present this proposal in the speciality — more nature-monitoring.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u107	I haven't read the Budget. They have the rejection that they have not read the State budget proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u108	We are constantly discussing the problem of forest fires, biodiversity, protected areas and nature conservation, so we need more nature watchers. « Family doctor for all», « we need more doctors» — that was one of your goals, and you did not or would not. But we want to comply, Mrs. Member. And family doctor for all implies more health professionals. The reduction in the number of students per class implies restructuring of schools, which implies, in turn, more professionals. We must work for the quality of the supply that public services provide to the people. This is no novelty, because no, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u109	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u110	They have already quieted themselves and realized that what we are saying today is what we were saying when you were government, unlike you, that they completely rolled up the conversation and today they say something different than what they said before. Too bad they hadn't said it or heard it when they were government. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know whether it's parliamentary lexicon anymore, but it's a big ghost! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u111	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Galamba, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State: When I saw the PSD Member on board, I thought: "How strange! It's so similar to Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But it couldn't be. Only then, when I saw all the other Members and even Mr President refer to the name of this PSD Member as Maria Luís Albuquerque, I realized that perhaps he should be the same person. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u113	You're so funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u114	But it should not be, nor could it be the same person, Your Honor. We all remember, as has already been mentioned here, either by the Secretary of State or by the Left Block or by the CFP or by the Greens, what you and your government have done for four years. But worse: they didn't do it for just four years, they planned to do it for another four.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u115	That's what the Portuguese wanted!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u116	The stability programme that you have presented, with the significant expenditure reductions there, is known and public. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, your party and now the CDS are probably the last parties that may have some authority to say whatever it is about public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there's one thing, Mrs. Member, that you can't say in this house. The honourable Member said here that the unions had customers. Madam Member, trade unions are not international financial institutions and do not have customers, they have workers who ensure the public services that you have deteriorated and that we now, slowly and with difficulty, because there are no resources for everything, we are, with conviction, recovering. [[P.S. and BE Mariana Mortagua's deputy.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs Deputy, there is a party, allegedly social-democrat, that does not tire of denouncing and comparing the unions to mere interest groups and to mere companies with customers. Do you know the name of the party that belongs to? I'll tell you: Social Democratic Party! [[PSD protests.]] Do you know what is the main feature of the social-democratic parties throughout their history? It's the workers' movement, it's the unions! And there is no social-democrat party throughout Europe and in all history that treats trade unions as their party treats! No one, Mrs. Deputy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Does the honourable Member come here to talk about public services as he dehumes public officials and treats them as mere customer representation organizations? Oh, my God! You cut wages, cut rights, degraded all public services and wanted to continue to degrade them,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...dismotivated, cut and sent public servants and come here to make that speech? Oh, my God! The honourable Member spoke here about reality, but I have already seen that reality is something that does not assist you. Two weeks ago, for example, it ensured, in a television interview, that the deficit was mathematically impossible to remain below 3%. Have you ever looked at reality a little better or not, Mrs. Member? Mrs. Deputy also confuses cuts with captivating. Mrs. Member, a cut is a cut, which does not allow for release. Cut, there's no, it's over! Captives are a budgetary management technique.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u117	Permanent!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u118	Oh, is it? And you say that?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u119	We can choose which children we release and which children we do not release and, according to the needs of a particular service, we can free money. The children of this year are smaller than the children you had in 2014 and 2015, years that, according to your speech, were already off-the-shelf, in which we had already left bankruptcy, had the clean exit and it was time to recover income. They then had taller children and defended larger cuts in spending until 2019. Now, we have this amazing thing about seeing the PSD want less taxes, less spending, more public services and less deficit! If you think well of the various statements you have made in recent years and the content of this statement, you will realize that it can be everything, but seriously it is not, and you are certainly not the person to be the spokesperson of these ideas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u120	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u121	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u122	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: I would like to begin by saying that this debate has already had a great merit, to demonstrate how wise our people are, which this Parliamentary Group already knew. Indeed, Mr. President, the Government, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party, The Greens and the Socialist Party today well demonstrated what the Portuguese said on 5 October 2015. They have the same way to be in opposition, stuck to the past, constantly talking about what they think is right for them, because, in fact, they have nothing to add to the future. [[PSD applause.]] I wanted to start by reminding the Left Block, the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Government where the political legitimacy of this Parliamentary Group comes from to bring this issue to debate. The legitimacy of debating the defence of public services comes from the Parliamentary Group which, over the past four years, has saved the public services that you have left in bankruptcy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS laughter.]] The legitimacy of this bench comes from who took the Country from the pre-banking situation! And some of the gentlemen who are sitting on the Socialist Party bench were part of the government that led the country to that state. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you supported a government that signed a memorandum that cut pensions, cut wages, blindly cut spending on public services...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u123	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u124	... and come here today to accuse of penalizing public services in Portugal those who had to carry out the program that you signed with the troika? Oh, my God! Mr. Secretary of State lost a great opportunity to clarify this House, but above all the country, where the government will stop spending EUR 445 million. We have heard the Director-General of Prison Services say he has no money to pay for prisoners' food in prison establishments.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u125	That problem already existed with your Director-General!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u126	We have heard that hospitals are in an emergency situation, that to buy thought, alcohol, drugs, or even to send for repair of equipment, they have to ask for permission to protect them. We have heard the infrastructure in Portugal say that you have no money to meet contracts and repair roads. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] We have heard people complain that there is not even a role for public transport tickets to be issued. And Mr Secretary of State, who is indeed good at the opposition, because he has lost the elections, comes here to have the great top of not being able to tell the Portuguese where the government is cutting and comes to say that this is no cause, it is not the effect of your captivity! Is that what you're talking about? Mr. Secretary of State, in his speech, spent another 27 seconds of his time. The PSD Parliamentary Group is in a position to give it 30 seconds—it is with great pleasure that we give it that time—to clarify, once and for all, where the Government will permanently cut EUR 445 million from the 2016 Budget. Now, to conclude, I would like to tell the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block the following: you speak, speak; you speak is lower and do not act accordingly. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u127	The strategy of you is to throw sand into the eyes of the Portuguese people, because, in fact, you are actually going to guarantee, with your vote, the next State budget, which continues this series of wrong policies and to bring public services to the total race. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u128	With no further inscriptions, we move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u129	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u130	Again? Oh, my God! Looks like a late bus!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u131	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked to finish my speech by not using the time we had made available to the Government. This is not the first, it is not the second, it is not the third, it is not the fourth attempt of the PSD Parliamentary Group to ensure that the government can clarify, once and for all, where it is cutting, where it will stop spending. So we have insisted on such maps of the State Budget for 2017 that you have hidden. I shall therefore take advantage of the time left to say once and for all to the Secretary of State and, through him, to the country which, in fact, said what you said yesterday concerning the documents which did not send with the State budget, as was legal requirement, is the reason for this debate. It is in these maps that you are reflecting where you are hiding a cut of EUR 445 million from the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u133	If I wanted to speak alone, I would excuse having marked this debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u134	But this is as serious as one of the following conclusions—and I let the Secretary of State choose one of the two: either you have the maps and are hiding them from the Portuguese, saying that they are drawing them up—because they're going to hide something on the maps that are now doing again! — or, Mr Secretary of State, your budget is a real fraud, because it is based on completely outdated figures. Choose one of the two, because one of the two has to choose! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u135	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to speak to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u136	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u137	Mr President, what was decided by the Conference of Leaders is that the party that agendas a legislative initiative or a debate has the right to close. But nowhere is it written that this closure is done in two acts,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... and we had registered at the end of Mr Hugo Soares' first intervention. We will not create an incident on this subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u138	We can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u139	... but to be recorded that this closure in two acts is an originality that is not to repeat.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u140	Everything that is said in the Hemicycle is always recorded. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the second item on the agenda, which consists of political declarations. To give the first political statement, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we know, the implementation of COP22 is shortly to 22. the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and it will not be new to the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Members if the Greens here reaffirm the idea that we are not particularly enthusiastic about the final text reached on the Paris Agreement. We believe that this has been an important step, but being emptied of concrete targets and concrete paths for the different states, the different countries continue to take action with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, it ends up a much more fragile agreement, in addition to our concern about all emissions trading mechanisms, which, in our view, take much more account of the negotiation than the idea of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to note that the warnings that the scientific community has made at international level regarding the instability that is being created on the planet, resulting from the climate extremes that already make themselves very evident, the rise in sea level and the fact that the most fragile, the poorest are the most affected, and the phenomenon of climate change can result in many more millions more poor in the world and in an extraordinarily significant number of refugees. Let us therefore make a warning here concerning the present and future of humanity that has to move us. Of course, in the discussions on climate change, the word 'discarbonise' or the expression 'energy transition' are always those that come at the top, and the Greens consider them relevant. But there is another aspect that the Greens have called for at the top of the priorities, which is precisely the reduction in energy consumption and we are trying to see what capacities we have to change lifestyles that result in the objective of reducing consumption. This is important, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because if the National Barrage Programme, for example, was compatible with the low carbon objective, it was no longer the reduction in consumption. As you recall, this programme was precisely supposed to increase consumption. And if we constantly think about the increase in consumption, we are led to commit many ashtrays that can be avoided and that should not be committed. If we want to respond to a matter such as the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, there are also other materials, such as those related to the decrease in biodiversity, which the National Barrage Plan has affected in a very pressing way and which is another very serious global problem. I wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens are working hard towards this prospect of reduced consumption. And if it is important, especially at the level of the building, it is also fundamental at the level of mobility. As we know, transport has very direct and very strong implications for greenhouse gas emissions and for the Greens the key word in this sector is collective mobility. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Members, we will present, in the discussion of the State Budget for 2017, proposals to ensure that social passes can be deducted within IRS and also that there is an effective discount on the price of the title of transport of the social pass to university students. That also proves, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that environmental taxation is not only useful, as the previous Government intended, to extract taxes, taxes, money from Portuguese, but must also have the objective, in the perspective of the Greens, of encouraging more appropriate behaviors to better prospects and environmental standards. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the prospect of adapting to the effects of climate change and not only mitigation is also fundamental. in this sense, The Greens work so that we have a more resilient forest and more suitable carbon dioxide slurry. Thus, the top mount and its defense are decisive and the Greens are working on this perspective. On the other hand, in the next State budget we will also fight for measures that promote the fight against regional asymmetries in our country. The dynamization of the rural world is fundamental in a country that has the coastline absolutely sacrificed and pressed. In our view, this issue is fundamental in the area of adaptation to the phenomenon of climate change. In addition, and because there are other gases in question that also contribute to the increase in emissions, including methane, The Greens warn that there is a need for a change in diets because if we live in a world of inequality where proteins are lacking to millions of people in the world, there are other parts of the world, particularly here in Europe and in Portugal, where meat consumption is absolutely exaggerated and has an impact on people's health. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Members, The Greens believe in people and their sensitivity, so there is information for that purpose, and they believe that Portuguese consumers are sensitive to the consumption responsible for social and environmental implications and also to the consumption they are responsible for their health. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u142	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u143	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that if we walk in the fight against climate change, we cannot go counter-cyclically, and walking counter-cyclely is, for example, research and exploration of oil in the Algarve, the Alentejan Coast and other areas on our coast without absolutely no need for answers that Portuguese can and should give to climate change and, more importantly, affect the potential for sustainable development of the regions. But on this point, Madam President, we will have the opportunity to discuss in a little while at another point on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u144	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered, to request clarification, Mr. PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, and PCP. In the meantime, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia informed the Bureau that she intends to respond together. Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u145	Mrs President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, has brought up as the subject of her speech a matter that has indeed become important and has been concerned not only this House, this country, like all the rulers and, I would say, the whole world population. Yesterday, it took place in this House, promoted by 11. the Commission in partnership with the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development (CNADS), a conference that brought together a large group of experts who were unanimous in assuming that Portugal has taken great steps, either in the assumption of problems, in its conscience, or in the need for action for its resolution. However, it is recognized the need to generate policies that lead and open the way to a new paradigm, which is transversal to such fundamental areas as spatial planning, mobility, decarbonization and renewable energies. Therefore, I would say that the great challenge now facing the Government is the construction of policies for the energy transition, a top concern, with the recognition of all. Therefore, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to ask you what the Greens Ecological Party thinks about the reduction of support for fossil fuels in compensation with the strengthening of support for renewable energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u146	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u147	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the PSD has always addressed climate change as a priority of national policy and, even in a period of enormous economic and financial constraints inherent in the implementation of an adjustment programme, has been able to implement important reforms in energy, the environment, the planning of the territory and the fight against climate change. The results are expressive and have even been the target of international recognition. I remember that in 2013 and 2014 we were considered the fourth country with better performance in climate action. In 2015, we went up to 10. the position at the World Economic Forum.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u148	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u149	UNEP ( United Nations Environment Programme ) and OECD considered the Green Growth Commitment, as you know, also approved in 2015 as the example of leadership to be followed by other countries. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, after the Greens had supported the current government in the greatest court that there is memory of renewable energies, after the Greens had supported the current government in the reversal of green taxation incentives, it is always curious that they are exactly the Greens to bring to debate the issues of combating climate change. So, Mrs Deputy, I ask you the following: will The Greens, for mere revenge, for mere resentment, continue to defend and support the reversal and destruction of the reforms we have implemented in the past and with the success that is known? Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I also ask you the following: will The Greens continue to make an oath of love in the fight against climate change, proclamations of love in the defence of environmental values, and then vote against renewable energies because, see, they are expensive, then vote against green taxation because it is unpopular or still voting against electric mobility because it is bourgeois? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u150	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u151	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I thank you for bringing this matter to plenary, which, in some ways, prolongs the deep debate we had yesterday at the Conference convened by the Commission to which we both belong and that it is precisely about the problem of climate change and the next COP 22 already in Marrakesh next month. We share the concern about the results of the Paris Climate Change Agreement. It is sufficient to note that the overall commitment of the various countries to reducing greenhouse gas emissions leads to an increase in the average global temperature of more than 3 °C instead of the target defined by the Paris Agreement, which would be between 1, 5 °C and 2 °C. In other words, the Paris Agreement, despite being an important step in the fight against the problems and risks generated by climate change, gives little assurances regarding the achievement of the goals set there, which still demonstrates the enormous resistance above all of the more developed countries, the more industrialized countries, of the countries that have polluted over the last few decades to compromise with goals towards the decarbonization of economies and societies. This, in fact, is a central problem of our societies, it is not a problem of Portugal, it is not a problem of parliamentary debate between opposition and the Government or the majority of parliament, and it is a problem of humanity, it is a problem of the planet. We therefore do not want to reduce this issue to a mere logic of debate, of party confrontation. However, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, there are two problems I would like you to comment on. First, we know that cities today produce about 60% of the energy consumption across the planet, 70% of greenhouse gas emissions and 70% of waste across the planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u152	Mr. Deputy, you can conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u153	I shall conclude, Madam President. Do you not think Mrs Heloísa Apolónia that it is essential that there is a new agenda for urban policies, policies for cities that do not involve, for example, the de-investment that has been made in public transport, the de-investment that has been made in green mobility and other gender policies that are in fact exacerbating all problems related to cities? Secondly, and I conclude, Madam President: Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, do you not think it is a contradiction, if the big objective is that of the decarbonization of economies and societies, there is any prospect of continued exploitation or production of hydrocarbons on the Portuguese coast, exacerbating the problems of greenhouse gas emissions on our planet? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u154	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u155	Mrs President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the issue which the Greens bring to debate is very important and must undoubtedly be part of the priority policies and priority actions of each government. We are all aware that if nothing is done, climate change will continue to worsen. And this phenomenon is one of the greatest environmental, social and economic threats facing the planet and humanity today. We have already welcomed the Agreement reached in Paris, which is undoubtedly very important and comprehensive, despite the fragility it presents in particular with regard to the targets set, which will not be sufficient to achieve the objective of reaching 1, 5 oC compared to the pre-industrial period. However, each country, each government, has to do its job, take its choices, under the penalty of commitments made in the Agreement never leave the paper and never get out of the good intentions. Portugal has been internationally recognized in recent years in the leadership of green growth and in the fight against climate change. The latest national data on economic and environmental indicators — I speak of the Air Emissions Account 1995 - 2014 — published by the National Institute of Statistics on 18 this month are equally revealing. Between 2011 and 2014, the country, through the policies introduced by the Government since then, increased the weight of renewable energy in electricity from 45 % to 61 %, 4 % ; greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by about 30 % until 2014 ; the energy intensity in GDP decreased by 17 % between 2005 and 2013 and the sale of electric vehicles increased by more than 50 times between 2010 and 2015 ; lastly, the external energy dependence reached the lowest value of the last 20 years in 2014. This is the result of sound policies on these matters. Thus, again stressing the relevance of this issue, I ask Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, what the current government and its coalition partners have done, in particular its party, the Greens Ecological Party, to implement the Paris Agreement, which was approved almost a year ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u157	What is the government's policy on this matter? It is that it seems more and more to us here, as in many other important issues, the only thing that really concerns the left parties is the reversals, the backwardness and not the true policy of action.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u158	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u159	I'm done now, Madam President. As Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira said, for example, in the renewable energies, we are already seeing one more reversal and one more step back and, therefore, I would like to hear Mrs Heloísa Apolónia talk about this particular issue. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u160	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, it is necessary to take urgent measures to combat greenhouse gas emissions and we cannot limit ourselves to unimpeded objectives, such as those announced at the Conference of the Parties, nor can we be bound by solutions that point to strategies that depend on instruments that lead to the mercantillization of nature, commercialization that the CFP rejects. these measures are examples: the carbon market, ineffective in reducing emissions, having only mercantilized the process; the European transaction scheme, which has not resolved anything, has only provided the richest countries with the possibility of deresponsibility for their own emissions; and the concept of emissions neutrality, put in the CO2 sewers, is also at risk of being a mechanism that has the potential to destroy the native forest of developing countries by action of large multinationals. The prospects of the CFP go towards investment in public public transport, it goes towards investment in the means of protection of nature, in particular in strengthening human resources, particularly in nature watchers, and also in protecting protected areas. In short, we defend the strengthening of state resources in order to put natural wealth to the service of the country and people without resorting to mechanisms for the mercantillization of nature. Mrs Deputy, what is the perspective of the Greens Ecological Party on the proposals of the CFP? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u162	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, for whom I would like to begin, because I have missed the fact that the honourable Member has admired the Greens for bringing climate change to the Assembly of the Republic. Take a good look! ...As if for years we haven't heard about this matter in a very coherent and very consistent way! The honourable Member is very concerned that the current government does not follow the strategy defined by the previous Government for green taxation. Mr President, do you remember what the Greens said when you launched this proposal for green taxation? They gave him that name because it was nice, they needed to get 150 million euros to the Portuguese, and then what did they think? Look, here's something with a nice wrap, called green, where we can get 150 million euros from people, from which we need to meet the deficit. Now, the Greens, as you remember, have denounced this issue. And what did the Greens say? That green taxation cannot be characterized as a way to seek money from taxpayers, because green taxation must have the objective of changing behaviors so that we can achieve better environmental standards. So, please notice, if you have not heard my speech: Mr, something you have done, a terrible mistake that you have made for a fundamental goal, which is that of collective mobility, has been ended with pass 4 /NP 18 and pass Sub23. They're done with them! It was a terrible mistake, because these passes were intended for young people and, as the Greens have often said, it is essential that young people use collective transport and then that in view of the quality that transport offers them, they do not need to move on to individual transport. This is a change that is not made one day to the other. People are educated to do this and you have withdrawn this form of incentive. So what are the Greens going to do in this State Budget? They will propose that the Sub23 pass be resumed with a 25 % discount, see! Do you think this is not a concrete measure?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u165	All right, Mr. Deputies. So you're going to vote in favour. Good! And the Greens will propose more: deduction in the social pass, incentives to the rural world, and out there, all consequent actions, as I said in my speech and you, of course, heard, or didn't want to hear, finally... On the other hand, Mr Pedro Soares and Mrs Ana Virginia, speaking now in transport, in fact, we believe that collective mobility is crucial to the promotion of quality of life in cities and we are not left by the eventual transition to the electric car. This, for us, does not solve all the problems, we have to have another paradigm of mobility and collective mobility is, in our perspective, a very pressing and fundamental issue. Mr. Álvaro Castello-White, the answer I was going to give to you is exactly what I just gave to the PSD. But it's not weird either, is it? ... It is no wonder that the question put by the CDS has been very similar to that of the PSD, but I hope you have listened to the proposals we are going to put forward, which, as far as I can tell, you like. In fact, you are quite right in the opposition, Mr Deputies, because when they were in the government they dropped this proposal from the Greens, in the budget of the State and elsewhere,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u166	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u167	But now, by the way, they're going to vote in favour, and still good. You are very good at the opposition! Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, I would also very much like to thank you for your question, but I would like to point out: attention, because the steps that have been taken seemed to be very big — and indeed there have been steps taken, it is undeniable that this has happened, and that they have certainly had concrete consequences — but the dimension that has reached has been very much due to the crisis, Mrs Deputie. Reductions in consumption and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions have been due much to a crisis situation. What does that mean? It means that they are transitional and non-structural responses. Therefore, it is for these structural responses that we have to work and one of them is certainly not that of the subsidisation to fossil energies, as you well remembered. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u168	Mr Paul Neves has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 40 years of the regional autonomy of Madeira and the Azores is celebrated in 2016. It was a constitutional innovation in 1976, out of the Revolution that brought democracy to Portugal. It is always good to remember that autonomy is the direct daughter of democracy. The 40 years of autonomy are positive. In the case of Madeira, it transformed one of Portugal's poorest regions into one of the most developed regions in the country, and convergence with the European average was also noteworthy. The PSD has always been a great enthusiast of the autonomy of the Azores and Madeira since the first day and we have kept ourselves faithful to that principle. After 40 years, I think we have all concluded that autonomy was the smartest form of development for the Azores and Madeira. The autonomy did not, on the contrary, separate the Atlantic Portugal from mainland Portugal as never before. As Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic said a few days ago at the inauguration of the 40-year exhibition of autonomy in Madeira — an exhibition taking place here in Parliament — 'there is no incompatibility between political-administrative autonomy and the integrity of national sovereignty'. Actually, more autonomy is more unity. That is why the autonomic process should be progressive and always updated. In the specific case of Madeira, the Regional Legislative Assembly either revises the Political and Administrative Statute or updates it to the new challenges of the Region and to an ambitious development and enrichment project for Madeira. The constitutional principle of territorial continuity must also be more respected. The Government of the Republic must give effective and clear support to the air and maritime travel of persons and goods between the autonomous regions and the continent. It is a principle of establishing justice that contributes, and in what way, to a true national unity. Also in the case of Madeira, the construction of the new hospital is a need of the region, but it is a national project. We must never forget that everything that is built in Madeira and the Azores is a work done in Portugal and for the Portuguese. National solidarity is a noble principle and justice, it is not a favor. In the Azores, 40 years of autonomy also force us to meet specific challenges, being one of them the greatest participation and co-responsibility of civil society in the political decision-making process, and it must also create mechanisms that strengthen, increasingly, the cohesion between the nine islands of the archipelago. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at a time when the debate on the State budget begins here in the Assembly of the Republic, let me give you a parallel between what is happening in Madeira, with a PSD government, and what is happening at national level with the Socialist Government. There is a project in Madeira, we know exactly what we want: economic growth, population enrichment, increase in private investment, increase in public investment, decrease in regional public debt, national and foreign investment capture. We bet on the quality of health, education and culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u171	The PSD in Madeira has a strategic project. We have a growth agenda. [[PSD applause.]] That is exactly what is missing at national level. What we have had in Portugal in the last year, and that will be maintained, is a country that, needing to sell more, as has happened in recent years, is exporting less; it is a country that needs to grow much but is not growing; it is a country that needs more productive public investment but that is, as never before, with huge cuts in this type of investment; it is a country that needs tax stability and tax reduction but that has never had such a high tax burden, so unfair and unstable, because it is constantly changing; it is a country that has regained credibility before international institutions, but that is, new and daily, under the holofotes for the worst reasons. That there is no doubt that a national PSD government, led by our party, would be a very different government, would be much better and would have a clear agenda for growth and enrichment of the country, because we would continue what we were doing, despite the inheritance received in 2011. We were making the economy grow, making exports grow, increasing external investment in Portugal, increasing public investment in production, gaining the credibility of the country, with direct reflection on the low level of interest that we were paying then, and we were greatly reducing the public deficit. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PSD intervention serves to mark the 40 years of autonomy at the same time as the Exhibition in this Parliament on the 40 years of Madeira's autonomy, serves to highlight how the PSD governs, whether in Madeira, where we are government, at national level, or at the Azores level. Commemorating and pointing out the autonomy is to highlight the archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira, it is to highlight the island portugality and the Atlantic sea. We can never forget: we are much larger in the sea than on earth. We already have Europe's third largest exclusive economic zone, but we're going to get much bigger. With the addition of the continental shelf, Portugal becomes 40 times larger in the sea than on land. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to know how to take advantage of the immense opportunities that the future holds for us only have a project and a growth and enrichment agenda for Portugal. PSD has that agenda. PSD has this project. We have done everything in the government and we will do everything in the opposition to make Portugal a country of real and justified optimism, sustained in the growth and enrichment of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u172	Four Mrs have signed up. Member States, BE, PS, CDS and PCP, for requests for clarification, to which, according to the Bureau, Mr Paulo Neves will answer together. First of all, to ask for clarification, Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, regional autonomy marks 40 years and the merits of this fundamental instrument for regional development must be distinguished from its concrete application. In the case of Madeira, I would distinguish two phases: that of the useful works, in which there was what was missing — roads, access to drinking water and electricity — and useless works, which served only to feed the monster, the civil construction lobby, headed by Jaime Ramos, that monster that had been built in the first phase. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u174	Forty years of autonomy imply that the achievements are signed, having two that are not underlined and that I will highlight: one, is the fortune of Jaime Ramos, as I have already mentioned, and others, such as those of the AFA and the Sousa ; the other great achievement is the colossal debt of Madeira of 6 billion euros. But these are the two sides of the same coin, because the fortune of some, few, was made at the expense of the debt that everyone has to pay. And that is the mark of the PSD government in Madeira and the Republic: to give a few privileges at the expense of the overwhelming majority of people. Now, we need to tackle the debt problem, free means to respond to investment, to create jobs; we need to support the new Funchal hospital; we need to follow these extraordinary support with supervisory mechanisms so that there are no deviations, as was the case with the May 2010 Law, in which 2020 million to go to the disaster were diverted to useless works and more than 100 million to a cruise line where it has never brought, nor should it contribute, no ship. As for the new hospital, it's a necessity, of course. But why a large hospital of 340 million? Is it fundamental? This idea had been abandoned by Dr. Jardim and was recovered by Dr. Albuquerque. I see three reasons, three bad reasons, to make a big hospital: one of them is the appetite for civil construction led by the habit lobby; another is the appetite for the real estate, for the lands that will be released, for the units that will be disabled;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u175	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u176	... the third reason is the megalomania of Albuquerque, a frustrated megalomania because for 20 years in the Funchal Chamber, he tried to leave a great brand in the city at the level of the landscape and failed. The various projects that he had were abandoned and now he sees in this large hospital, in this mega-hospital, the Pharaohic project to leave his brand in the landscape of Madeira. There are three reasons why they're not good.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u177	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u178	But there are other problems that deserve urgent response and the PSD does not. Is the construction of the hospital with the job to be created during the works justified? Well, if the problem is employment, nurses are hired — 400 are missing — with the advantage of being quality and lasting. We're not just going to create a hospital because it's good to give a job to the stoners.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u179	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u180	I'm done, Mr. President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u181	Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor to ask for clarifications by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulo Neves, I have listened carefully to your statement and I think there are few premises in your speech. It has forgotten to say that, in fact, it was the PSD that ruled Madeira for 40 years and that during that time it had the opportunity to define the strategies and make choices regarding the investments it could have made. It is true that it has made investments that were essential for the development of the territory, but from a certain point of view it is recognized that it has done a number of works which, today, are even abandoned. So it was a choice to do these works instead of doing the hospital. It was also a choice not to introduce the question of freighter aircraft or ferryboat. If in Dr. Jardim's mandate this was possible, it was also possible already in Miguel Albuquerque's mandate, when Passos Coelho was still in government. It was possible, and Miguel Albuquerque, when he made, at the beginning of his term of office, a series of promises, including those of the construction of the hospital, the freighter plane and the ferry, did not say he would need the help of the Republic. Perhaps at the time they answered him negatively and now, that the PS is in the government, comes with a number of complaints and claims that he did not do before. But for the way in which, over time, you have come to make demands, I even wonder if you do not think you are rendering a bad service to the cause of autonomy. Considering the somewhat sad story of Dr. Jardim's constant dispute with the Republic, I think it would be an opportunity to show a change, walking in the opposite direction and not using the same means. By the way, I will say the following: last year, the honourable Members. Members of the PSD/Medeira presented a number of proposals for amendments to the Budget which were not accompanied by your banking colleagues, and were approved only because the PS voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u183	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u184	Of course, Madam President. I think it would be appropriate to spend more energy by convincing your bank colleagues, if any, to support your proposed amendments than now to be with this kind of speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u185	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to request clarification from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Neves, first of all I welcome the statement he has made on matters which we, the CDS, consider to be important in relation to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. With regard to the deepening of Madeira's autonomy and autonomous regime — and in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, they are preparing a review of the Political-Administrative Statute, particularly with a tax impact — and I would like to know — and this is the first challenge I would challenge you, I would not call you a question, but a challenge, as this process is going on. After listening to the gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and, above all, Mr Luís Vilhena, of the PS, who, moreover, greet for the quiet and serene way he did his intervention, would not say in contrast but would say otherwise, for example, to his bench colleague Carlos Pereira - and I regret not having been Mr Carlos Pereira to intervene - I would like Mr Paulo Neves to be able to answer two questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u187	He's on an external mission!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u188	He's on an external mission, Mr. Carlos César says. I am saying until Mr Pereira is on an external mission on behalf of Parliament, which is why he cannot ask for clarification. Let it be clear that I do not like to make politics in these terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u189	Can't the other Members talk? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u190	Do you want to speak? If you want to talk, sign up; if you don't want to talk, listen. I think it's the minimum of good education. I have already been well educated enough, I think, before your parliamentary leader, to say until Mr Carlos Pereira has spoken because he is not here for more than justified reasons. End point paragraph!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u191	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u192	If you will allow me, I would like to ask Mr Paulo Neves because it was Mr Paulo Neves of the PSD who spoke. Excuse me. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] Mr. Carlos César, you also want to talk about Madeira after the Azores? Let me talk about Wood! Just a little bit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u193	It's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u194	Mr President, I shall quickly finish with two questions. Mr. Paulo Neves, have you seen the statement in this State Budget to the Funchal Hospital? Have you seen if she's enough for anything more than a little drawing? Does this majority, here, as elsewhere, as in other areas, in other sectors, only include words in the Budget to deceive anyone who wants to believe in the news? This is my first question. Mr Paulo Neves — and we have heard about Mr Carlos Pereira — you know that, for weeks now — and we already know that for the Socialist Party the word is an honest word — in a visit to Madeira, due to the scourge of fires, for which, moreover, the PSD and the CDS had a responsible and non-partisan attitude, as opposed to other parties, Mr Prime Minister promised 17, 4 million, only for housing, from the IHRU funds (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana)? Do you know what is done of that courage that Mr. Prime Minister went to Madeira to promise?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u195	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u196	I'm finishing up, Madam President. I've just been responding to the parts. Mr. Paulo Neves, do you know whether, by any chance, these 17, 4 only 3, 5 million are included in the State budget? Yes or no, sir? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u197	You have the floor, by the PCP, to request clarifications, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Neves comes in his political statement to seek glory for the merits of the governance of the PSD either in the Autonomous Region of Madeira or in the Government of the Republic. I would say, Mr President, that if we ignore the problems that you create for the workers and for the people, if we ignore the privileges that guarantee the large economic groups and if we ignore the colossal indebtedness, in particular the Autonomous Region of Madeira, perhaps what is about some merit. But look at how we ignore all this is to ignore essential aspects of the political position, of the PSD options both in the governments of the Republic and in the governance of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Mr President, I would like to ask you five specific questions to tell me who the merits of these situations are. The first question is: the reconstruction of the high areas of Funchal, following the 20 February 2010 catastrophe – already almost seven years ago – remains to be done and many of those populations continue to have essential problems to be solved. Who are these merits but the governance of the PSD in the Autonomous Region of Madeira? Second question: on the precariousness of work, particularly in the tourism sector, the honourable Member, because he is from the Autonomous Region, certainly does not ignore the social scourge in which thousands of workers live in the region, in particular in the tourism sector, which are hired on time, day or week, because the precariousness of work in the tourism sector is the rule. From whom is it the merit of this situation in the Autonomous Region of Madeira but the governance of the PSD that you came here to boast? Third question: de-use of the productive resources of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in particular due to the absence, still today, of a planning of the oceanographic exploitation for scientific and economic purposes or the development of fishing activities. Tell me, honourable Member, what is the strategic plan for planning the oceanographic exploration for both scientific and economic purposes that you have to present. Zero! There is no planning for oceanographic exploration in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Fourth question: Mr Deputy brings the question to Madeira's new hospital. The new Madeira hospital remains an imperative need for the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Mr, a resolution was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic in 2010 which resulted from a proposal submitted by the CFP Parliamentary Group and gave rise to Resolution No 76 / 2010. After that, you were in government by 2015. Question: what took so long for Mr Deputies to join his party not only in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but also in the Assembly of the Republic, where the PSD with the CDS constituted a majority, had he not remembered the construction of the hospital? Where has the honourable Member walked for the past seven years since the adoption of that resolution, because it is only now that you remember the hospital that you have not implemented? One more merit, one more tin medal for the merit of PSD governance, either in the Autonomous Region, or in the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u199	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u200	In conclusion, Madam President, while not abusing your tolerance, the last question that Mr. Paulo Neves wanted to raise concerns the Court of São Vicente County, closed with the judicial map approved by the PSD and the CDS and reopened with the new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u201	What reopen?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u202	Mr. Paulo Neves, you have much to say about the merits of governance, but you certainly have much more to respond to the damage the PSD has caused not only in the Government of the Republic but also in the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u203	Mr. Paulo Neves has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u204	Mr President, Mr Paulino Ascension, thank you very much for your question. The honourable Member has divided Madeira's political life in the last 40 years into two phases. In the first he was tired of praising, which I thank him for being a government of the Democratic Social Party; in the second he criticized. But, Mr President, you must agree with me that the people are sovereign. I will remind you of the results of the elections in Madeira in the first and second phases. We had a total of 11 regional elections for the Madeira Parliament. In 11 elections, the Social Democratic Party won 11 times, and in 11 victories with an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u205	Look how the last ones went with a big hat!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u206	I think we are talking about the results of the first and second phases. [[PSD laughter.]] And let me tell you that the results in the second stage, which you are so critical, were an absolute majority even greater than in the first stage. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u207	As for the construction of the new hospital, Mr. Deputy, he had not yet heard anyone against the construction of a new hospital. Mr. Deputies is the first to be against the construction of a good and new hospital. The honourable Member said something unbelievable, that this will only serve the construction companies. Mr President, the alternative to which the new hospital is not built by construction companies is that it is done in league, because otherwise it will have to have construction companies to build it. And Madeira needs a new hospital! And he needs a new hospital because it's a national project and, as I said in the gallery, national projects are of national solidarity, they're no favor. The honourable Member came to this Parliament with a centralist speech as we had not heard here, in this Parliament, curiously, coming from a Member of Madeira. Mr Luís Vilhena, first of all, I thank you for your questions. Mr President, there are a lot of premises in my speech. Mr President, I do not want to be unpleasant but, coming from Mr Democrat, criticisms of the governance of the Social Democratic Party, what we have done in recent years, and given that Mr Democrat also actively participated in the last elections in Madeira, where the Democratic Social Party again won the elections with an absolute majority — you had only 6 Members compared with our 24, and yet these 6, in a coalition — if there was no premise, it was this to point out what was the dimension of the Social Democratic Party in Madeira. With regard to the question of hospital, he is also like his colleague on a government solution. It is that you have an absolutely centralist speech when you are representatives of the people of Madeira in the national Parliament and should have a completely different speech, which was to defend the national insularity of Madeira and the Azores. Mr Nuno Magalhães, I am also grateful for your questions and for bringing the question of money to the hospital here in the Assembly of the Republic. And you are quite right, Mr, because we have had that promise, but we have not given up on believing that the Prime Minister will keep his word. Mr Prime Minister, in fact, and very well reminded Mr Nuno Magalhães, when he visited the Autonomous Region of Madeira, promised that he would support it, already in this State budget. And you say very well, Mr, there is nothing written. Nothing! Not a tot! Not a penny to the new hospital! But allow me to say that 'procission is still on the table', so let us hope that when we get out of the 'field', the Socialist Party and the Prime Minister will fulfill what they have promised. As to making the region more attractive to investment, whether national or international, he asked about the financial policy of the region with the Political-Administrative Statute and of course we need to have characteristics of the region to capture foreign investment. This happens in any autonomous region, in any island in the world, and therefore we need it. But, whatever it is, Mr President, let me give you some data. I think you know, but now all colleagues know — the following: Madeira is already the third region of Europe on ship registration; Madeira has an international business centre with extraordinary credibility in the world;... [[BE's protests.]] ... Madeira has, in terms of tourism, the highest occupation in the country; Madeira has increased its exports to the international level, either to Japan or to China ; Madeira has economic groups of an extraordinary dimension and creativity; the question of the sea...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u208	Mr President, he has already exceeded his time widely, so he thanked you for concluding it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u209	I will finish immediately, Madam President. In reply to Mr João Oliveira, as regards reconstruction, he is not right, Mr. I'm so sorry I had to...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u210	I saw it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u211	They didn't take him to the right places! You have to be accompanied by someone who knows the region well. You're not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u212	That was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u213	And I say more to you: in the reconstruction of the pre-fire situation, which happened relatively recently, you must be the first to recognize that we have done reconstruction with Madeira's money, with the money of the Madeirans, with extraordinary speed. It's almost everything rebuilt and the fires were a few days ago! So, honourable Member, have this very important question: reconstruction is done, it is almost all done and it is with money from Madeira and Madeirans.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u214	February 20th!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u215	As far as the sea is concerned, Mr President, you are not right. It's just that you're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u216	Mr President, I really need to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u217	I shall terminate immediately, Madam President. Mr President, do you know who has been able to take advantage of and, indeed, has a strategy for the sea? The Autonomous Region of Madeira. And you know why? If there is a region that has been able to take advantage of the potentials that the sea gives to the country it is precisely the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Just see the numbers of aquaculture in Madeira, which are impressive, and what has happened in recent years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u218	Look that's not a great indicator!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u219	Before we proceed with the political statements, I will ask Mr. Secretary, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 339 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 33 / 2016 of 24 August, clarifying the provisions concerning the conduct of financial, technical and legal studies on the future development of TDT ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u221	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the political statements. To this end, Mr João Azevedo Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The regional elections of the Azores were held last October 16. The results—in spite of the high abstention and even considering that about 10 % of the citizens abstained in the region—represented a clear preference for voters by the Socialist Party, which gained on seven of the nine islands and was the only party training to elect Members by all electoral circles. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After that, the PS again obtained an absolute majority, winning a PSD member on the island of Grazia and losing one member for the CDU in the Flowers and another as a result of a decrease in the number of electors in the electoral circle of S. Jorge. As everyone acknowledges, these are unacceptable results of national extrapolations. Therefore, merits and demerits are allocated to regional political life and to the perception of the benefits that the Azorians and the Azorians acquired over the years of the Regional Government of the PS, in particular in this last legislation. The effort of the PS / Azores was always to renew its ideas, its projects and its politicians, accompanying and anticipating the changes, learning from mistakes, listening with humility, serving with honesty and always with determination in the defense of the Azores and autonomy. We are all aware of what needs to be done and what needs to be done in a better way. The legislation that now starts in the Azores is another opportunity to pursue this understanding. Through the voice of some television commentators, in the middle of the night of disclosure of election results, there have been and have been many demonstrations of ignorance and even disregard of the Azores, by comparison with other regions of the country, particularly in the description of social and economic indicators that, according to their advertisers, made the Azores the worst in everything and everywhere. By miracle, according to these proclaimers, the Azorians and the Azorians will have granted the Socialist Party their sixth consecutive victory, reaching an absolute majority with an almost unequivalent percentage in legislative elections on the European continent. By miracle? Oh, my God! Of course not! Only those who have biased prejudices or who do not know or know the Azores today and in recent decades have been able to follow this voice of contempt. The victory of the PS is a consequence of the quality of work and the results achieved by regional government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... either by the evolution of the indicators achieved, or by the comparison with the current situation in the various regions of the country. Some sectors of the opposition and a commentator paid by a television station said with a sentencing air: the Azores are « a very complicated region », with « high illiteracy rate ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u223	It's true, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u224	The truth is as simple as this: in 2011, last known information, the Azores, with 4, 7 %, had a lower illiteracy rate than the national average,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and only in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon that rate was lower. Another thing, however, is true: when the PSD left the government in 1996, the rate of illiteracy in the Azores was, yes, above the national average.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u225	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u226	Still in this sector, although the early dropout rate of education and training is still very high, it was in the Azores that the highest rate of reduction was 3 percentage points in 2014 and 4 percentage points in 2015. Although the rate of transition/ completion of secondary education is lower, the gross rate of pre-schooling in the Azores is higher than in the country and in 10 years until 2014 growth was 8 percentage points higher than in Madeira, Algarve, Alentejo and the Centre. While the total Azores population increased by around 3 % between 1998 and 2015, the active population grew by 19 %, mainly due to the increase in the female active population ( 35 %, 8 % ). Nevertheless, the last spread unemployment rate of the 2nd. the quarter of 2016, places the Azores with a lower rate to regions of the country such as Lisbon and Madeira and almost identical to the national average. And normal, over the last few decades, was the unemployment rate in the Azores being lower than the national rate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The number of jobs created during the same period had an increase of 11, 5 %. It is also a violation of the opposition in the Azores, sometimes replicated in this Parliament, to catalogue the Azores as regards poverty. GDP(gross domestic product) per capita is still a good indicator of development in a country or region. And in this indicator, the Azores have an evolution of highlighting at all levels. The INE ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ) released, last July, an emphasis subordinated to the theme Portugal — 30 Years of European Integration 1986 - 2015. The novelty is to appear in 1995 compared to the most recent years, and it can thus be found that the Azores are by far the region that most converged — 14 percentage points — and the Alentejo is the region that follows, with 4 percentage points, and the Centre with 2 percentage points. All four other regions — Centre, Lisboa, Algarve and Madeira — varied between 1995 and 2014. We can also verify that the Azores, in 1995, the last year of Mota Amaral, were by far the region with the lowest index, 7 percentage points from the North and Central and 20 percentage points from Madeira. Now, North, Central and Alentejo have already been overcome and we are the ones that converged most with the European average. If, in 2015, the Azores were the region with the lowest rate of social security pensioners per 1000 inhabitants and with the lowest average pension value among all regions of the country, as far as the rate of beneficiaries of social income for inclusion was, and is, the region with the highest number of beneficiaries. It is also good to evaluate this indicator in the light of the proximity, sensitivity and follow-up that is provided by a system of social assistance and prevention without parallel in the country. On the other hand, the rate of poverty according to income is based on the monetary and non-monetary revenues of family aggregates. Thus, gross income (GDR) of families is one of the main indicators used. The INE disclosed the latest data from the regions for the year 2013. According to these data, the Azores and Lisbon were the only regions in which the country's gross available income decreased ( - 0, 3 %). The value for the Azores of the gross available income of households per capita is higher than the national average and, in particular, the North, Central, Alentejo and Madeira regions. Only households living in the Algarve and Lisbon have gross income per capita greater than the Azores. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u227	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u228	I conclude now, Madam President. Much more could be said and much more could demonstrate how the course of progress that the Azores have made — in their autonomous history and, in particular, in the last two decades — positively marks the Azorian life in almost all its dimensions. The time devoted to this political declaration does not allow me, but it is indeed not necessary to do so: the reply of the Azorians in the last regional elections was unequivocal. Long live the Azores! Long live Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u229	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. I am sure that Mr. João Azevedo Castro will make up for the time he added to his political statement by responding to all requests for clarification together. Isn't that true, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u230	Yes, yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u231	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Pinho de Almeida has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u232	Mr President, Mr João Azevedo Castro, the CDS-PP, as an autonomous party that it is, welcomes the Azorians for the democratic expression they had in the last regional elections. And so, of course, the first word is for those who won these elections, so we congratulate the Socialist Party for the Azores and its President, Vasco Cordeiro, for this electoral victory. They understand that we also welcome the CDS-PP/Azores and its leader, Artur Lima, for the course they made up to these elections and for the extraordinary result that the CDS-PP has obtained, rising in votes, in mandates and percentages, which, in an autonomous region with the characteristics of the Azores, is not an easy task. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u233	Don't count the ladies. Members with the CDS-PP to haunt the Azores. Mr President, it was very good to defend the region's own identity and the progress it has made. That is the heritage of all the Azorians, and all must defend it. But you will understand, Mr President, that you cannot count on the CDS-PP to, as a party to the opposition, with legitimacy reinforced by these elections, whitewash the results of the elections in the Azores. Therefore, he said it is so significant the result of the CDS-PP. It is that, in a region where social and economic dependence is so large, to make opposition is undoubtedly more difficult and those who do it with the competence of the CDS-PP/Azores, led by Artur Lima, deserve this highlight. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This social and economic dependence, Mr Deputies, is largely due to the social conditions in which many Azorians live. What they have chosen electively is not at stake, but they have also chosen who represents them in the opposition. And there is a possible reading of these election results — the honourable Member did not say so, but it is worth remembering: in these elections the Socialist Party lost one Member, while the CDS-PP won one Member. In our view, as you will understand, the region is on the right track, but it is appropriate to speed up the pace, that is to say, it is necessary to reinforce the opposition in this case to the opposition of the CDS-PP, and to reduce the strength of the Socialist Party, because the political force that was in the government was not sufficient to fulfill the wishes of the Azorians. This will be done, democratically, in the next Parliament, in the Regional Legislative Assembly. In this House too, we can do something for the Azores and, therefore, in addition to the democratic greeting, it left you a question, Mr Commissioner, because the problems arise at every moment. As you know, the Azorian students were able to transport additional 10 kg on TAP flights between the Region and the Continent. The reason is obvious: because they make frequent trips and have cargo to transport. The Government of the Republic has reverted the privatisation operation of the TAP with the aim of having a word to say in management. Now, the TAP has withdrawn this month the possibility of the Azorian students being able to transport more than 10 kg on their trips. What will the reversal by the Government of the Socialist Party allow Azorian students to recover, who have so far only lost? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u234	Mr António Ventura, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u235	Madam President, Mr João Azevedo Castro, I would first of all like to present my democratic achievements to the victory of the PS in the Azores. Secondly, I would like to regret that Mr Azevedo Castro has passed by the one who is the biggest problem of the Azores and that these elections have shown: abstention. The abstention of more than 60 % if we add up to those who did not vote — the white votes and the null votes — weakens our autonomy, weakens our autonomous process, and this is a problem that all the political parties with responsibility have to recognise. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The parties must look at the participation of the Azorians in the elections, because they did not participate in those elections. This must be a problem that shames us and needs political attention over the next four years, because something is wrong with elections in which more than 60 % of people will not vote, where people do not take part in the democratic process, do not take part in the elections, do not appear in the political parties, do not appear in the proposals. This is the main problem of our autonomy. I am sorry that you have moved on to this issue. This only means that, for the PS, what matters is to win at all costs, even if for that, you will only vote for one person! What matters is winning at all costs! No, we are interested in democracy! We are interested in the participation of the Azorians in their policies. That is what we are interested in and should be interested in any politician. After 40 years of autonomy, it is important to revisit the process of consolidating the Azorian identity, it is important to implement a greater participation of the Azorian peoples, it is important that there is a mechanism to strengthen, in our nine islands, the territorial cohesion that is at issue, because, without territorial cohesion of the archipelago, the autonomy of the Azores does not come. It is important to carry out the autonomic acquisition. The Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores has a number of rules which provide for the strengthening of transparency and the clarification of competences, as well as the greater participation of citizens in the decision-making process. It is of interest, indeed, to find a new policy direction. I therefore ask you, Mr João Azevedo Castro, what is the contribution of the Socialist Party — because this was a missed opportunity in the House of Mother, the Assembly of the Republic, which also envisages and cares about the Azores — to combat the biggest scourge of these elections, the abstention. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u236	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u237	Madam President, Mr João Azevedo Castro, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party for the victory in the regional elections and to greet the Azorians for this electoral act, a concrete expression of democracy and its autonomy. I should also like to congratulate the Azores Left Block on the good results. We were the most upswing party in number of votes and percentages. The Left Bloc has once again had a regional parliamentary group, with two Members, Mrs Zuraida Soares and Mr Paulo Mendes, whom I welcome here, presenting my wishes for good work. [[Congratulations from BE.]] As mentioned earlier, the great winner ended up being abstention. I note my perplexity with the words of Mr António Ventura, who said that people do not appear in the democratic system and that this explains abstention. Are you suggesting another political system as an alternative to the democratic system to heal this distance from people? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This very high value of abstention raises some reflections. There is a failure of the parties, of course, of all!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u238	What is the proposal to increase participation?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u239	Why didn't people vote in the PSD? Why was the PSD unable to capitalize on this discontent? Has it been the weight of its 'toxic asset', which constitutes, at present, the Rabbit Steps for the PSD? Did this weight also have its impact on the Azores? [[PSD protests.]] There is a failure of the parties to respond to people's specific problems and there is an action of the parties in government, who deviate from their electoral promises, and that is a factor that deserves reflection. Another reflection to be made relates to that often presented thesis that abstention would be an effective means of punishing bad politicians, for example. The result of these elections shows the futility of this argument, because, despite the fact that the House has not been elected, Members will be invested in their duties and the government will take over. So abstention as punishment is useless. The PS has won the elections and it must respond to the challenges, which are not few, particularly long-term unemployment, young unemployment and increasing precariousness. How do you answer the honourable Member to these problems of the Azores? That is the point. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u240	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u241	Mr President, Mr João Azevedo Castro, I would like to begin by welcoming your political statement, with the certainty that we do not interpret in the same way the realization of that electoral act and the election results, as is obvious. Accompanying concerns about abstention, which marked very significantly the elections for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which, moreover, confirmed the parliamentary representation of the CDU, we do not interpret in the same way the obtaining of an absolute majority by the Socialist Party, nor the conditions in which it was obtained—of course, that judgment has nothing to do with the merit or demeritus of the Socialist Party regarding the obtaining of this absolute majority—and the judgment we make on the best or worst conditions that exist to achieve measures and decisions that correspond to the aspirations of the workers and the people of the Azores. And we do this on the basis of an analysis of the concrete, economic and social problems that persist in the Autonomous Region of the Azores and which need to be answered. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the political statement you made to put to you questions related to four central problems that mark the economic and social reality of the Azores. I begin with the most meaningful problem and which, more dramatically, marks the lives of thousands of Azorians, which is unemployment. Unemployment is, in fact, the most relevant social problem, aggravated by the conditions of insularity, which needs to be answered and for which, moreover, the CDU has been seeking solutions in terms of economic policy that may meet the needs felt, within the framework of a sustainable job creation strategy. A second problem, which is related to this, concerns the need for support for key productive sectors, particularly agriculture and fisheries, not ignoring the very serious problems faced by the dairy sector, particularly as a result of the end of milk quotas, which has a very significant impact on the degradation of one of the main productive sectors of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, The third problem has to do with the wages and income of the Azores, in particular with precariousness, considering that the new contracts correspond to precarious contracts, with what this means in terms of instability, deterioration of working conditions and degradation of wages and income of the Azores, and therefore this problem requires a thorough response. I also refer to the problem of lack of public investment, particularly in infrastructures that are essential for the Autonomous Region. I stress, for example, the problem of the Horta airport on the island of Faial, which urgently needs intervention towards its qualification and, above all, in terms of ensuring the security conditions for the airport operation — which is no longer today, it has been a long time ago — that it is essential for the airport to be able to ensure the conditions of airport transport with safety and quality to the faials. I would like to hear the honourable Member's reply to these questions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u242	To answer, you have the floor, Mr João Azevedo Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank the questions raised and to make some considerations, as I think it is important to contextualize some aspects. I would also like to record the words of gratitude and congratulations on the election result for the way in which the electoral process of the Autonomous Region of the Azores took place. In reply to Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, who raised a question about the additional 10 kg allowed for baggage transport in the TAP airline, I would like to point out that, in the SATA company, 40 kg, animals can be transported as well as any necessary accessories. I am glad that he spoke in the TAP, because it was in the context of his privatisation, even before his privatisation, that we have witnessed the complete abandonment by the TAP of the public passenger air transport service to the Azores. In other words, all airports that were inside the public passenger transport service were abandoned by the TAP company. I would also like to refer to Mr António Ventura, as well as other Members who have addressed the issue of abstention, which, as I said in my speech, abstention is clearly a real concern for this party for many years, in addition to the issues arising from the electoral books, which have some problems, including the high number of voters who do not reside in the region, which always exacerbates the percentage of the abstention. However, it should be noted that this must be a problem of everyone and that we should be given the greatest attention, but it cannot in any way serve to devalue the electoral process, either in respect of all the Azorians and Azorians who exercised their right and their civic duty, or by the express majority verified in these regional elections. It is important to remember that it is the Azores and its own organs that must start the process of reflection on its destinations. I would also like to point out to you that I did not fully understand what I wanted with the other component of your intervention. However, I can only reinforce that in relation to GDP per capita of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, the Azores were the region of the country with the highest growth rate between 2000 and 2014, with values in the order of 50 %, clearly converging to the national average and converging to the European average. I think this indicator well reveals the degree of success of socialist governance: they are data from INE, they are not given from any publication. I was listening to the honourable Member very carefully and on some aspects - it seems to me that he was referring to another autonomous region rather than the Azores. On the issues raised regarding the primary sector, the fisheries sector was mentioned here, where there has recently been intervention and has been the target of significant investments, but in particular the milk sector, which is going through a period of special difficulty with regard to regional reality within the problem that occurs in the national context and even at European level. This was one of the sectors which has been most restructured in recent years, but which has been experiencing difficult days, and it should therefore be noted that, with the current Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the CFP, BE and the Greens, 50 % of the social security contributions have been exempted; investment subsidies have no longer been considered as an income for the calculation of contributions by independent workers; the family farming scheme approved in this Parliament has been implemented ; a strengthening of crucial actions has been carried out with a view to the disposal of dairy stocks also outside Europe ; the presence of the Azores in the crisis office for the milk sector is being ensured; and measures are currently in progress that are in line with the order of the EUR 20 million which, well we know, are not sufficient to tackle the dimension of the problem, but are clear signs of the effort made to support farmers in their intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u244	You now have the floor for a political statement, Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has taken the initiative to trigger an up-to-date debate in the plenary session today on public services captives. In the launch of this debate, the PSD decided to highlight the chaos that lives in public transport in the country, particularly in the city of Lisbon. For a moment, however brief, we must recognize the relevance of the initiative and even our agreement with the classification of a state of chaos in public transport. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than findings, it is important to raise the issue a little more and try to realize that chaos will be that and why they explain it. Are there ever more frequent interruptions in the Lisbon metro, especially notorious in peak hours? Yeah, that's chaos. But it was known, however, that there are 20 carriages that are not at work because there are no parts. The image of chaos, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absurd to have trains, but there are no wheels for trains to travel. Whose responsibility is it? It will be the management of the company, first of all. But we need to ask: why does that happen now? The reason is simple: because orders should have been made for at least a year and planned for even longer, and at that time the previous government was more interested in preparing for privatization of the Lisbon subway operation than in managing the operation of the same. Is this chaos? But it is also the product of the choices that determine the chaos situation that public transport has reached in this country. More: in addition to the lack of material, the successive breakdowns of trains are added for the most varied reasons. Is that chaos? No, if they are episodic breakdowns; yes, if they are disorders with unusual frequency. Was the imposition of this chaos a deliberate choice? You will never know, because fortunately this new political majority reversed the whole process of privatization in public transport in Lisbon and Porto. Chaos will also be the daily interruptions on the Lisboa metro escalators, which occur at the most diverse entrances and exits of the various metro lines, especially serious when they are combined with failures in lifts, which prevent access to citizens with reduced mobility. Yeah, that's chaos. But if everyone knows that these situations are recurrent today, certainly no one forgets that they became our daily bread when the previous government decided not to renew maintenance contracts to save a few euros and repair was made to the piece and sight, instead of acting preventively in terms of maintaining the material. Here the old saying applies: the cheap came out dear to us! Chaos will certainly be the sudden interruption in the supply of cards for the sale of tickets on the automatic sales machines of Lisbon and Porto, visible in the huge and shameful queues of waiting. Yeah, that's chaos. But whose responsibility is it? Is that from the machines that don't work? No, no, no. It is above all the result of wrong management decisions, because contracts for supply of materials have not been properly guarded and timely delivery of cards has not been properly guaranteed. Responsibility goes through management, of course, but also by governments, who were unable to adopt the best decisions to prevent a whole transport system from becoming dependent on a single supplier, which has drastically compromised the transport operation. Caos is still the lack of 150 drivers in the Lisbon Metropolitan, 180 drivers in the Carris and 130 drivers in the STCP, which the government and its administrations let it happen because it even made it possible to cut services, cut careers and lower costs, all on behalf of future privatizations and a model of transport turned to justify the millionaire incomes that we would all have to pay. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Caos will be the existence, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, of more than 750 transport titles and that the right, while in power, did nothing to simplify, integrate and force all transport operators in the metropolitan areas to integrate a common billing system. And why does that never happen? Because the lack of transparency and the chaotic profile of this forest of transport securities in Lisbon favors handling and fraud. Recent reports of revenues that the Baraqueiro group has received as unproven compensation show that it is urgent to break this path of irresponsibility and chaos. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must repair many wrong decisions and, from the outset, end with an invention called Transportes de Lisboa, which represented, especially in the case of Carris, the dismantling of much of its macrostructure, the decapitalisation of the Carris and the Metropolitan of Lisbon in crucial matters such as the autonomy of services and human resources, which have become considered surpluses and therefore disposable. Now it will be necessary to reverse that logic. It is necessary to promote sustainable mobility throughout the country, offering more and better public transport to serve the needs of travel in various urban and rural territories, in strict compliance with the constitutional right to mobility for all and all, particularly for citizens with reduced mobility. Above all, it is necessary to make our cities more breathable and freer, reducing car flows and replacing individual mobility with sustainable, collective, more efficient and more productive mobility. Finally, more planning, more and better integration of all transport systems in metropolitan regions and large urban areas is needed, based on metropolitan areas and urban intermunicipal communities. If the blame lies with the previous government, this government must be more rapid in overcoming this chaos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u246	Ah! The year 2017 must be the year of the reconstruction of public transport policy. It is certainly necessary to invest in new, more efficient and cleaner vehicles, whose realisation can and should be guaranteed as much as possible by the national industry. That is the challenge we face. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u247	Four Mrs have signed up. Members of the PCP, PS, CDS-PP and PSD, to request clarifications. First of all, to this end, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Heitor Sousa, says the old saying that «who sows winds reap storms». The situation we are facing today, and that the CFP will still address further in this plenary session, is the direct result of the policy options that were taken during PSD/CDS governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u249	You haven't turned the page yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u250	in this case, the PSD and the CDS have sown these "winds" and workers and public transport users are facing the "stamps" that result every day from this disaster policy and from the destruction and dismantling of public service and public transport in metropolitan areas and not only. And we still remember, during the previous majority PSD / CDS-PP, insults and attachment...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u251	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u252	... which has been done here in this Chamber, and not only for the transport workers and for the struggle of workers against disaster policy that is still being felt in the companies and services of transport companies in Lisbon and Porto and throughout the country. Today we still remember the atoards of the carris barbershops and the drugs of borla, we still remember the campaigns of mystery and lies with which they threw mud into the face of the workers of the sector, to blacken their struggle and their professionalism. Today we are facing the situation as a result of options such as the ticket system and the ticket system that still made the PSD explode in the Parliamentary Economic Commission. We still remember the options that were taken with regard to the maintenance of rolling stock, which was not going ahead with the results that this has already brought to the service and for the safety of rail transport itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u253	So, what now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u254	We have a situation that needs to be reversed, as a country, as a society, which is the degradation situation, which we will still mention today, in this public service and in these companies. But we also want to draw attention to the legislative framework itself which is being put in this sector today for the State and for companies, which poses very serious threats not only for the present but also for the future. I am speaking specifically of the legal regime of the public passenger transport service, which is an authentic time bomb in relation to the accountability that the authorities would have to take in an absolutely unfair and unsustainable way, referring to local power the bill of a disastrous situation that the previous governments have caused in our country. So the alert that needs to be left. Mr Heitor Sousa, I would also like to hear an approach from you on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u255	Mr Heitor Sousa will respond together to all requests for clarification. For a request for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u256	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa, I would begin by congratulating the Left Block for bringing this issue to debate today. It is never too much to remember that the biggest attack on public transport service was made by the previous government, PSD / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u258	It was an attack that came to the cluster of launching seven privatisation or sub-concession processes to private at two months of the legislative elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u259	Again? Can't you say anything else? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u260	I am referring to the privatization of TAP, CP Cargo, EMEF, STCP, Metro do Porto, Metropolitano de Lisboa and Carris. The previous government's agenda was to dismantle the public passenger transport service, and this dismantling was announced on behalf of a false foreign investment, because that was never the case. For four years, the former Government, PSD / CDS, has worsened public transport companies, has transformed these companies into a « customised fact » of the appetite of private companies, private operators, has invested in the maintenance of circulating material, infrastructures, human resources, intermodality and has increased tariffs, has reduced social support, has eliminated careers, has decreased frequencies. For four years, they have done this "made to measure" for two months of the elections, to privatize these companies or to subsidize them to private individuals. The public transport supply has not deteriorated during those four years, because, in fact, the workers of these public companies have put themselves, with enormous skill and skill, at the service of the public interest. It is fair to remember the role of these workers so that the public transport supply has not deteriorated so much in these four years. The question I would like to ask you, honourable Member, is the cancellation of the direct adjustment of EUR 820 million in the competition for urban transport in Porto and the cancellation of the direct adjustment in Lisbon was or was it not an effective and absolutely necessary measure for the public transport service to regain its importance and really be at the service of the people? I also ask whether the decentralization of the operation, for example, of the management of STCP in port is or is not a good measure to meet the greater interest of users of this type of transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u261	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u262	I ask you whether the 36-line integration measure in the port intermodality system in the Andante, i.e. 30 % extension of this system, is or is not an effective and necessary measure and there is much claimed by users of this metropolitan area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u263	Mr Carlos Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall spare myself from referring to the chaos in which the transports of Lisbon are, because Mr Heitor Sousa has already done, and well, a portrait of what the city is. I would go further to the causes, and to begin to show them I would place all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is the starting point: why is there no strike in this chaos? There are no strikes on behalf of the public interest! There are no strikes for improving service!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u265	You don't know what you're talking about, and you're still wrong on top!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u266	This is the initial question I would like to leave. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] If there are no strikes, it's a bad sign,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u267	The strikes are coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u268	... because it is a sign that the unions are silent, it is a sign that the unions are quiet and that, therefore, they are achieving their objectives, of course. in this circumstance, it is very strange that in companies which, in turn, fully depend on the State budget, the unions are silent, because this certainly goes against the public interest of users and taxpayers. But then what's going on, Mr. Heitor Sousa? Is it chance?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u269	I've already told my grandfather that ignorance is daring!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u270	Is it the chance Mr. Environment Minister mentioned last week in committee? I was hoping that the Left Block would bring the light, the resolution of this problem to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u271	It was random!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u272	And you're still in the dark!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u273	But, of course, the intervention of the Left Block was also a coincidence, because I didn't say anything! He came to accuse the previous government that this is wrong, but the fact is that only in recent months is this situation being recorded, not only the situation in transport, but also traffic in Lisbon, which is also motivated by this. in these circumstances, you accuse the previous government of being the root of the problem and now try to blame it for these situations. But I mean the following: in 2015, passenger transport increased by 2 % and the operational costs of companies decreased by 7 %. You know why? Because the private people, the agreements they are talking about, have taken up the problem of the escalators you referred to.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u274	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u275	Mr Member, I use the subway once in a while, and on the run-up to the Long Mouse Station is written months ago « We will soon solve the problem»!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u276	It was already broken!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u277	I wonder if this is a problem for the previous government. No, the problems are now! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Regarding the lack of drivers, which I know, in recent months, there has been no reduction of drivers! The problem is now being established, the conditions of the company's degradation are now happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u278	That's not true! The problems aren't right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u279	In conclusion, Madam President, I just wanted to say the following: it is very strange that the CGTP is silent. [[PCP protests.]] With your government, things have changed, but to worse. For users, they've moved to worse! And it's not just on strike days, it's every day! I therefore find it very strange this debate promoted by the Left Block, which is very strange the silence and the low talk of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u280	We don't speak low, you don't listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u281	I am very strange also the silence of the Socialist Party, which only speaks laterally. But even more strange is the lack of participation of the City Council of Lisbon in the debate on its transports. [[PCP protests.]] The Assembly of the Republic is speaking on this subject, but the House of Lisbon has not said anything yet. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u282	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u283	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Heitor Sousa, first of all, would like to congratulate the Block on bringing this issue to plenary, because it is, in fact, essential for the many Portuguese people who are facing the chaos that is going on in public transport every day, especially in urban areas. Above all, what these people want to know is when they're going to see their problem solved. That is why, Mr Heitor Sousa, there is one point I cannot fail to criticize in your speech. Who, Mr. Deputies, in politics only knows how to speak of the past, quickly becomes, himself, past.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u284	Is that a PSD critique?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u285	I think that's what's happening today to the Left Block. You're talking about transport chaos. But why does it not mention, for example, that the Minister of the Environment says that the failure in tickets in the transports of Lisbon was a coincidence? Or will you tell me that, after all, buying paper to issue tickets is the fault of a government that has not been in office for another year? Mr President, when we see that public transport complaints are increasing, and much, and that at the moment, in 2016, is it mainly due to the lack of punctuality, changes in schedules or removal of routes, does that also have to do with previous governments? Mr. Deputies, we had an authority, the authority of whom had a solution. You may not agree with it, but we had a solution that would, in the case of Lisbon, pass through the sub-concession of the subway, which would even allow savings for the public safes of EUR 215 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u286	How?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u287	But more importantly than that, this sub-concession provided for the liability of the concessionaire for many of the problems you have faced today, particularly problems that they had to deal with, for example, with the quality of the rolling stock, i.e. the carriages — which are currently missing — or the running ladders. Mr President, above all, I would like to ask you three very focused questions. I went to see the website www.lefta.net, which I occasionally consult, and I saw that the workers of STCP are outraged by the wage freeze they will suffer in 2017. In 2017, Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u288	Is that an indirect PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u289	This is from the website www.left.net, which I think you know. Mr President, is this the fault of the PSD government and the CDS or is it the blame of the Government that the Left Block supports and the Budget that the Left Block, with its vote, will make it possible in this same Parliament? Secondly, Mr President, you have talked a lot about transport, but why don't you talk about the Cascais line, for example? What do you propose now as a solution to that line? Or are they going, alone and exclusively, to let you define it until you die? The last question I would like to ask you, Mr President, has to do with the following: today, the President of the Infrastructures of Portugal has publicly reported that he has a captivatement in his budget of EUR 430 million under the heading relating to the conservation of the rail network. Mr. Deputies, is this the responsibility of whom? Does the PSD/CDS government or the government that you, with your vote, support and support in this Parliament? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The Left Block, in these matters, cannot go blank. The Left Block, in these matters, must be confronted with its responsibility. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u290	To reply, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u291	Madam President, I would like to thank all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that have been raised to me. In relation to the content of some of these interventions, I must say that we have shared concerns about public transport policies in order to defend them and modernise their systems, their integration, greater investment, greater capacity of integrative systems, both in terms of tariffs and in terms of operation and intermodality. From that point of view, it is true that much of the system that existed, even before the PSD/CDS government had risen to power, was dismantled, and with very precise objectives. Mr Pedro Mota Soares said, in his speech — he certainly escaped this question: « We had a transport authority».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u292	No, no! He said we had the authority to have a solution!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u293	Indeed, there was a Metropolitan Authority for Transport in Lisbon and Porto, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, whose statutes, objectives and tasks should contribute to the integration of the various transport systems in the metropolitan regions. You have put an end to these authorities, because they wanted to concentrate all public transport activity on a transport privatization policy. That is why you have put an end to these authorities! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u294	To privatize!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u295	The objective was that the PSD/CDS Government would assume on behalf of the State the role of grantor of public transport in the metropolitan areas and could, with this, lubricate the legal regime of public passenger transport itself, which you voted for, creating an exception to make the State the sole grantor of privatization in Lisbon and Porto until 2023, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u296	And now it's for when?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u297	... which was the period of surrender to private individuals of the sub-concessions of public transport in Lisbon and Porto. This craftsmanship, this legal handling, you did it, is solely your responsibility. You don't have to ask us for any responsibilities so there won't be any. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u298	You are not part of the government! They have nothing to do with the government! We don't even know who Antonio Costa is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u299	Maybe, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, if these authorities were still in force, probably the problem of the Cascais line, which has been going on for decades, would be resolved. So now, the later the resolution of the problem of the Cascais line becomes more difficult...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u300	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u301	Exactly, Mr President, because a pile of ashtrays is being created, errors, which make your repair more expensive. On this amount of 490 million captivating that you are talking about, Mr President, I am returning the question: how many million euros have been cut into public transport in the last four and a half years by the PSD/CDS government? [[CDS-PP protests.]] How many investments have been made because of your policy of degradation of transport systems and preparation of these systems to be delivered to the private sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u302	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u303	I shall now conclude, Madam President. There is likely not only an explanation for the chaos that exists in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. This is not a question of chance or luck, it is a question of political choices, and the political choice ahead of us, in 2017, is in the sense of having again coherent, environmentally sustainable and inclusive transport policies from the point of view that they reach the most deprived social sectors and also arrive at the sectors that allow us to remove the chaos from our cities and make collective transport more integrated and sustainable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u304	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u305	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the hearing of the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Security, the political debate of the State budget for 2017 began in this Parliament. And it didn't start well. The Government has begun with a concealment of information to this Parliament which has no parallel and which does not, at least, respect the laws in force. For the first time, a Government of the Republic has refused to provide Parliament with such essential information as the expected implementation for the current year, essential to be able to compare the budget proposals submitted by the Government with the implementation of the current year, or the outlook for it by the end of the year, or the breakdown of tax revenue. Let us say, clearly, that these are not the whims of the opposition, information that the opposition believes should be given. This is the information that the UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) itself has classified as legal and transparent requirements from the point of view of the budgetary debate, i.e., this government has not complied with the law and has not been transparent with Parliament in the budgetary debate. The first consequence is that these two hearings will have to be repeated exactly for this reason, which, as I said, is something without parallel, not starting the budget debate well. And if the government is reprehensible for this behaviour that it has had is also reprehensible the behaviour of some parties, who in the past were demanding with all the formalities—and well—and who today are merely assistants of shame who went through Parliament without having any critical spirit. Obviously I'm talking about the Left Block and the PCP, which now nothing asks, nothing demands and nothing wants to know. We understand why: if you want to know, you'll probably be even more ashamed of the positions you take here. But this political debate has begun, allowing for a very clear first assessment: it is the Budget of Incoherence, it is the Budget of Inconsistencies and it is the Budget of Electoralism. It is the budget of incoherence because, year after year, everything changed in the economic model advocated by the government. Failure to bet on private consumption through return of income, after all, was exports and investment the major drivers of economic growth. The problem is not the engine, the problem is the result, the problem is that the country does not walk, the country does not grow, and what you proposed was not to present to this Parliament a deficit that met the European targets; on the contrary, you criticized a government that said it had priority to meet the deficit, when it was essential for us to get out of the situation in which you had left us, saying that this should not be the priority, that priority should be economic growth. So, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, for your own sake, you have failed. Because of the criterion of not prioritising the deficit and the criterion of prioritising economic growth, you have failed all the time and are now wanting to correct it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But should we know: is this budget proposal sufficient to correct this course of action? from our point of view, it is not. Because this budget, besides being incoherent, is inconsistent. If not, let us see: examples such as the « Mortagua tax » that has this extraordinary moment of having as main opposition, at this moment, the Block of Left. The Left Block invented a tax that, after seeing that it was not well done, contests frontally and very vehemently. Nor did the Government of the Socialist Party deserve so much incoherence and so much irresponsibility from the Left Block. [[Laughs from BE Mariana Mortágua's deputy.]] But the question of minimum social and rural pensions is also evidence of this inconsistencies. To say that there are pensions, the lowest of the lowest, that must not be increased solely and simply because in recent years there has been a government — that evil government — that had, after all, increased them, is to treat these pensioners in a way that they honestly do not deserve. And this has nothing to do with the distinction that we can make between prioritising minimum social and rural pensions or prioritising the solidarity complement for the elderly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u306	It's here! It's the skeleton in the closet!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u307	... has to do with the consistency of those who move in pensions to exclude those who have lower pensions. But this is a shamefully electoral budget. Can anyone explain why pensions increase 10 € from the middle of the year and do not increase 5 € throughout the year?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u308	Now...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u309	Someone can explain what the budget is, what is the financial fact that happens in the summer that allows a government to increase pensions on the eve of elections and does not allow to increase pensions from the beginning of the year? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is a shame to realize that this government has exclusively electoralist concerns and does not care at least about what is the course of the year for pensioners or for workers, because what happens with retentions in the source is exactly the same thing: a worker who gets unemployed in the summer has been holding the source during the first half and will only recover that money one year later. It does not make any sense unless the government has to be able to win the elections. Nevertheless, we are aware that this budget does not amend, but it may be less bad and, therefore, responsible, as we did last year, we will present our proposals. We will present a structural proposal for a structural problem that the country has, which is the defence of the forest, its economic exploitation and the fight against fires with what is the count of forest management. We will present an exemplary measure so that political parties, when those who support the government increase the IMI, will set an example of irrespective of what is the exemption of IMI they currently have. We will present a social proposal so that the inconsistency towards minimum social and rural pensions does not persist and that these are increased at least as much as the others are. We will present a dynamisation proposal, with a tax supercredit. Since the government finally realized that the solution is investment and exports, so it creates means for that investment to exist and for these exports to have results. We will also put forward a modernizing proposal, as well as what the Simplex proposed by the Government will have but little consequence. The Government and the State cannot charge fees that they cannot, at least, identify. And when there is a government that daily invents new rates there has to be someone who, on behalf of the citizens in this Parliament, says that this relationship has to be balanced, that there cannot be charge rates that are not known, that there can be charge rates that do not have a price equivalent to the service that is provided and that the State has once and for all, at the Citizen's Portal, to publish all the rates that exist, what is the reason they exist, what is the identity that can charge them, who can have to pay them, how can pay them and what is the relationship between the service provided and the value of the tax charged.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u310	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission. It's been a long time since he had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u311	I'm done now, Madam President. This is an exemplary proposal, a party that, knowing that the Budget can never be the Budget that satisfies the desires of the Portuguese people at the moment, may be less bad if the Socialist Party and the left parties adopt a more humble stance and realize, for example, that they excused having lost a year to bet on private consumption and could have perceived that investment and exports should have continued to be the priority of the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u312	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members, BE, PS, PS, PS, and PCP. First of all, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u313	Mr. President, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, there is a difference between making the accounts and counting,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u314	You're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u315	... and the honourable Member here pretended to note that he did not know that the Left Block required the disclosure of government data at the Conference of Leaders and in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u316	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u317	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, you may want to try to speak louder than I do, but without a microphone it will be difficult. Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, I regret to disappoint you, but the Left Block is very proud to have contributed to creating a measure that irritates the CDS. And the measure irritates the CDS because it is a measure that actually calls for a contribution to those who have real estate wealth in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u319	It is not a contribution to pretend, because what you did when you were in the government was to create a tax that says in the law that will exacerbate the offshore tax and then, when we have the data, we know that, after all, the law was made only to cover two offshore taxes and the tax is €70,000. Now, what the measure provides is that the tax, rather than being for real estate, is for total property and so offshorers will already pay more than they paid in the "accountful" proposal that the right presented. [[Congratulations from BE.]] They're gonna pay more, but it's not enough. We want them to pay even more and so we're going to exacerbate the offshore rate. But, Mr President, I tell you one thing: aggravating a fee on offshore in a measure that does not cover offshore does not count for anything but on paper and to account that they do what they do not do. And if they're upset...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u320	The lady's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u321	...is because this measure will, exactly, tax the wealth that you didn't want to tax as you created in the previous legislation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr President, you have to say what your problem is with this Budget. Is poverty the problem? Oh, my God! So explain to me what it is that it contributes to poverty that 72,000 elderly people have been excluded from the solidarity supplement for the elderly, which is the pension made to take the elderly out of poverty?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u322	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u323	Because this Budget and the previous one rejected this solidarity complement to 70 000 elderly people and they still increased and frozen pensions that you had left frozen. Are you worried about poverty? Oh, my God! Please tell me that it contributes to poverty by removing 200 000 people from social inclusion income, a measure against which prejudice has been introduced — a prejudice against the poor, to begin with — a measure which, above all, covers children, minors, with problems of social exclusion, with problems of poverty. And they have, I repeat, withdrawn this benefit to 200 000 people! Tell me, honourable Member, what has this done to poverty in Portugal and to child poverty?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u324	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u325	Because the previous budget and this budget put these cuts back in the RSI and gave it back to these 200 000 people, many of them children. Are you worried about poverty? Oh, my God! What does it say about the increase in the subscription? Are you worried about poverty? Oh, my God! What does it say about the new provision for disabled people amounting to EUR 60 million already budgeted for this budget? Or is it the public service and the social state? Tell me, honourable Member, what did you do to the public service when you put 600 social security workers, who needed social security, in requalification to be fired? The problem was solved. Tell me what makes the public service over-income in private schools while the public school needs resources? That problem was solved. Tell me what leads to the social state and public service freezing of pensions for four years?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u326	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u327	I'm done now, Madam President. Just had to thaw the pensions and would have had an increase of minimum pensions above that small increase that gave them while leaving pensions of 180 €, people reformed in anticipation, without any update.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u328	Mrs. Deputy, you've already outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u329	at the same time that it left pensions of 280 € frozen, because it felt that these pensions did not deserve any increase and cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly to 70,000 people. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr President, answer these questions and tell me what the alternative of the CDS is.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u330	Mrs. Deputy, you've almost used your time in duplicate. To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u331	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I think that the tone of our speeches is quite enlightening about irritation. So not only does the honourable Member like who is seeing us and listening can easily draw conclusions. About to be careful and talk on top — Mrs. Member, recently, she said that I was talking on top, and it was a lie,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u332	I didn't say to you, but to the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u333	...what is normal in Mrs. Deputy, but still, it's not true... Madam Member, let's see one thing: on account of this, there were neither your questions nor my answers, because it is enough to watch what has been the behavior of the Left Block in the past year. The Portuguese, today, if they open the dictionary and read the phrase "to account" will find your face and those of your colleagues, because to be aware is what the Left Block has been doing a year ago. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Left Block realizes that it's not part of a government. Or tell me...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u334	Don't run away from the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u335	I won't run away to questions! Mrs Deputy, tell me: how many beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly now exist and how many were there when the government that the CDS was part of ceased to function? They have existed more with our government than they are now, Your Honor! It's not enough to change the law, it needs to have some consequences. And the consequence of the change that you have made has not caused the beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement to the elderly to increase, but to decrease. Look what it's like to be careful, Mrs. Deputy! About public schools, tell me that public school closed its doors during the PSD/CDS government because it has no employees? Oh, my God! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] It is not because of FRENPROF, Mrs Deputy. Because of FENPROF they have closed several and now they do not close. But, you know, education in Portugal does not begin and ends in Mário Nogueira ; it begins and ends in students, begins and ends in families, starts and ends in teachers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs Deputy, there is a world beyond the trade unions and beyond the Left Block, although you have a lot of difficulty in understanding this. There is a world beyond all this reality, Your Honor! About your tax, what I wanted to tell you is that the problem is not even the idea, the problem is that it is technically bad. Any prosecutor tells you the tax is bad, it's wrong. It's not the tax target. Did you ever hear us say it was annoying? You've never heard of that. You have made a number of this tax to try to get the CDS to say that it is the middle class that obviously is not. Therefore, you will never hear us say that those who are hit by this tax are the middle class. That's what you guys wanted, they thought we'd fall into the sky! They thought we were upset, but we're not upset. Whoever is upset is who is in the shameful situation in which the Left Block currently finds itself, i.e., defending everything and its opposite. Mrs Deputy, I would like to remind you that the questions you have raised are as follows: and as regards the General Deposit Box?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u336	Mr. Deputies, you will have to conclude quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u337	I will finish, Madam President. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I have heard your leader—I confess to you that I have listened with astonishment—to say that I would bring to Parliament the issue of cash wages. Mrs Deputy, the issue of cash salaries has already been brought to Parliament. Do you know who brought it? It was the CDS. You know what happened? When the CDS and PSD proposed that cash wages could not increase to double, as they have increased, you voted with the PS. Therefore, to be careful is to say that the debate will be brought to Parliament what has already been here and that you have prevented, because you have voted alongside the PS. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u338	To request clarification on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u339	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Almeida, let me tell you that your intervention has made me refer in history to the moment in which we discussed the State Budgets for 2012, for 2013, 2014 and 2015. at this time, pensions, minimums of the minimums, in Portugal were increased in a discretionary manner, without attacking poverty, in approximately EUR 30 million — between EUR 30 million and EUR 35 million. in this State budget, pensions will increase almost EUR 190 million, with the strengthening of the solidarity complement for the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I think you have a problem. You started your speech on maps. Let me tell you that I don't know if I'm going to give you a map or compass for you to leave the dialectic fog where you've finally presented the position of the CDS. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The position of the CDS is as follows: maps are essential to perceive the budget path. But then, after five minutes, in fact, not three minutes, you are criticising the options and the budget's own numbers to conclude, at the end, with proposals for amendments — be welcome to the discussion, at least that is different in what has been the role of the PSD! — on the basis of this State budget. Mr President, there is one issue that is essential: you are talking about maps, we are talking about higher pensions; you are talking about maps, we are talking about increased family allowance; you are talking about maps, we are talking about replacement of income to public servants; you are talking about maps, we are talking about returns from overtax. The CDS has to come to this game, but it has to get out of the fog where it got messed up and where it's getting messed up by the PSD. The PSD does not want to discuss the State Budget, as it did not want to discuss the State Budget for 2016, but this was not the role of the CDS. The CDS came up with proposals. Mr President, do not be fooled by the easy opposition without proposals and do not hide behind the maps. We will make proposals and discuss the State Budget, which is a serious budget, which fulfils international commitments, which fulfils the national commitments of the country, and, more importantly, which also allows the CDS, which did not happen in the past with the PS, to participate in the Budget, because for four years, when the Socialist Party came to play, insistently its proposals were always rejected. When I hear Mrs. Mrs. Assunção Cristas say that the PS Parliamentary Group and the Government have little desire to accept the CDS proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u340	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u341	... I remember the government, in this House for four years, not accepting proposals from any opposition party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u342	That's not true! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u343	Several times, in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u344	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u345	Madam President, I will conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u346	The Bureau has been very tolerant, but in fact it has already exceeded the three minutes it had.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u347	Madam President, I only ask you to be tolerant of me as well. Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to ask you the following question: is the CDS prepared to come to work, with proposals, to improve this State budget in the specialty, or will take refuge, like the PSD, in an abstention that does not help the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u348	What abstention? We vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u349	... and what allows a significant part of the Portuguese currently not to be represented in this budget debate? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u350	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u351	Mr President, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, the Government had not yet presented the State budget in the Assembly of the Republic and the CDS had already submitted proposals that could improve it because, being structural proposals, of course they could enter any State budget. If you don't understand... I know that I understand, I'm not paternalist; you were - and I excuse myself from being, I don't think we should be paternalist with each other... but you realize the difference between discussing specific issues of a State Budget and discussing the great options of the State Budget. When we talk about maps, we're not talking about geography, as it does: when we talk about maps, we're talking about missing material in hospitals; when we talk about maps, we're talking about missing staff in schools; when we talk about maps, we're talking about budget execution that, for some reason, this government wants to hide. Why would it be? Imagine, Mr President, what is the relationship between the problems that occur every day in public services and the difficulty that the Government has to be transparent with Parliament and to show how the State budget money has been spent this year? What is the relationship between the cuts that the government has made and the day-to-day desperate of those who work in public services and who have to resort to them? But, moreover, Mr, the issue of maps is not an obsession with the CDS. The issue of maps is classified by UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support ), which is an independent unit of this Parliament, as illegality. Illegality, Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u352	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u353	Therefore, since the government has committed illegality, it would be appropriate to have a greater sensitivity to the matter than the honourable Member has clearly had. But I'll tell you something else. The honourable Member said that the increase in minimum social and rural pensions, decreed by the previous government, was discretionary. Yes! You know why? Because there was a government before ours — although you want to erase it from history, since you want to talk about history — that led the country to the eve of bankruptcy and that you had to sign a Memorandum of Understanding. Do you remember, Mr. Deputy? Memory. Do you remember, Mr. Deputy? [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Do you know what that Memory of Understanding said? He said: « All pensions shall be frozen during the adjustment period ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u354	And after the troika? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u355	That is, the inheritance we had from a government of your party said that all pensions were frozen. The discretion we have had was, at a time of greater difficulty, able to withdraw from this section where you have laid the lowest pensions of the lowest. It's true! It was a discretionary act and it was very difficult, but, on behalf of those who had the least, we were able to do a little social justice in the face of the insensitivity of the gentlemen by the way they left the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, the honourable Member said that I had a problem. Mr President, the problem of the Socialist Party is much bigger. You have noticed that your economic model has failed and yet you have been able to make an entire intervention without ever mentioning the word 'growth'. It recalled the discussion of the State budgets of 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. in those years the most mentioned word in all the speeches of all Members of the Socialist Party was « growth ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u356	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u357	The least mentioned word was « deficit ». Look how this has changed, sir! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u358	To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u359	Mr President, Mr Almeida, first of all, I would like to thank you for bringing to the plenary the subject of your political statement, but, above all, the way in which you are absolutely amazed and adjusted to the reality with which you have done so, both in your political statement and in your answers to the doubts posed by the parliamentary groups. The PSD Parliamentary Group agrees that the economic revenue of the 2016 State budget and, now, the economic revenue which has been seized on the eve of the Socialist Party's legislative elections — legislative elections which, we remember, have lost — has failed, and has failed sharply. They said that the increase in consumption was a sort of condominium that, by magical arts, would drive the country towards never seen economic growth. It is fully proven that this recipe has failed and, at this moment, the Socialist Party tries, although in a way never confessed, to avert the path, defending now what it attacked when we, PSD and CDS, were government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u360	Expansionist austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u361	The PS already knows that it has failed and is currently changing its priorities. But the parties of the extreme left are also changing their priorities, with a rejection—and now, yes, this word has full application—completely, in which, by means of some branches of power, they now come to defend in this State budget what they were attacking, and they had previously attacked in a despotted manner. Allow me, Mr President, since no one has answered a question you asked in your speech, ask why pensions are going to increase by mid-year. The answer seems simple to me, and allow me to give it, since I did not get an answer from those who asked the question: it is because they are absolutely increases made at the mouth of the polls, on the eve of the autarchic elections, and that is extremely negative. Mr President, the State budget, as someone has already said, is often made up of options, and this government has made an extremely negative choice. This option was not to comply with the law, it was not to be transparent and not to bring to this House the material necessary for the supervision that Parliament is responsible for, in view of the executive power. It is a repeated pattern in which this Government insists and has already tried, it recalls, in the Banif Commission of Inquiry, when the Government and Minister Mário Centeno repeatedly refused to deliver documents and collaborate with that Commission of Inquiry. Now, in the State Budget, on a subject, we should, far more importantly, that government and this minister once again ignore and discredit the Assembly of the Republic and its supervisory role.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u362	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u363	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mr. João Almeida, I have a question to ask you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u364	Mr. Deputy, you had 3 minutes and 21 seconds to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u365	Madam President, I will finish. I only ask for the same time as it has been granted to other speakers. Mr. Member, I have with me a text from a Member of this House, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u366	Sir, you won't have time to quote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u367	... in which it says that the State tax revenue map planned for 2016 and budgeted for 2017 should be included in the report. What is your answer, Mr. João Almeida? Do you agree with the Socialist Party Member Paulo Trigo Pereira? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u368	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u369	Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, thank you very much for the important questions which you have raised, from the very last point of view, with which I agree absolutely — anyone of good sense agrees — for the simple reason that it is the enforcement of the law. Being compulsory by law—it is! — its failure to comply is illegal, it is not discretionary. In addition to the practice of the Government — I had no opportunity to mention in my speech — we were faced with an absolutely disrespectful response from Parliament and the law, a reply from the Ministry of Finance that said that Mr Finance did not refer that framework to their freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u370	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u371	And I ask: what freedom is it that any minister, of any government, has to fail to comply with the law? What government can be above the law? None! None, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] That's why I'm telling you, sir, I'm sure I had to. And it is not strange, apart from the enforcement of the law, that of the Socialist Party in terms of insufficient information. Let us remember that it was a Government of the Socialist Party that inaugurated an absolutely extraordinary practice, which was to make a ceremony for the photograph of the delivery of the State budget, and it was found, minutes later, that the pen which it delivered was empty and that the Budget came to Parliament only a few hours later. Unfortunately, these dissimulations of the Socialist Party are not new! What is new is the whitening done by parties that support this government, who were previously outraged with the blank pen of the Minister Teixeira dos Santos, but now conform to the illegality of Minister Mário Centeno. This says a lot about the usefulness or uselessness of some parties represented in this House. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u372	Madam President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u373	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u374	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida spoke about closing schools and said there was no memory of closing schools during the previous government, except because of the unionist Mário Nogueira. in these few minutes, I gathered six cases of closing schools in 2014 because of Minister Crato — I had no time for more. He asked the Bureau to promote its distribution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u375	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Send these documents to the Bureau to be distributed. Mr Paulo Sá, Member of the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u376	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Almeida, the CDS and also the PSD have set up a political number on a alleged concealment of information on the State budget. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Yesterday, they even wanted to postpone the hearing of the Minister of Finance allegedly because there was not enough information to be able to make an assessment of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u377	The gentleman kept his legions in his pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u378	They claimed that they were going to audition the dark, but then the hearing denied the PSD and the CDS. In this hearing 14 members of the PSD and the CDS spoke for more than 1 hour, and — stop! — made an assessment of the State budget, even in a very powerful way. Today Mr. João Almeida of the rostrum again made an assessment of the State budget in a very powerful way. That is, the CDS is lying to itself. They do all of this political number only with one objective: to tighten up the budget process and hide your true options. We understand very well the problem of the CDS and also the problem of the PSD: they wanted to be in the government, they wanted you to present a State budget for 2017 so that they could pursue the policy of exploitation and impoverishment, so that they could continue to infernify the lives of Portuguese people. But in good time they were removed from the government, also with the contribution of the CFP, than we were very proud of. Therefore, instead of a budget of the PSD and the CDS for cuts in wages, cuts in pensions, cuts in social benefits; instead of a budget of the PSD and the CDS for the liquidation of rights and attacks on the social functions of the State in education, health and social security; instead of a budget of the State of privatization, we have a State budget that pursues a path of replacement of rights and income, insufficiently and limitedly, it is true, however, of replacement of rights and income. This hurts the CDS and PSD! It hurts you that more than 1, 5 million pensioners will have their pensions increased by 10 €! It hurts you the thawing of the social support indexer, which will result in the general increase in social benefits! It hurts you the freeness of school textbooks, extended to about 370,000 children of 1. the cycle of basic education! It hurts you the thawing and updating of the food allowance of the workers of the Public Administration! It hurts this and much more, because what you really wanted was to pursue the policy of exploitation and impoverishment that took place from 2011 to 2015 and that infernified the lives of the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u379	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u380	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, first of all, I would like to reassure you, telling you that I do not hurt anything and that I do not find myself saying anything to my colleagues on the bench, much less so — speaking now a little more seriously — about the budgetary options that it was very good that we could have taken if we had not inherited the situation that we inherited and had not ruled in the situations in which we ruled.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u381	By your choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u382	It happens that, by inheriting this situation, we were able to solve it, and you, without such embarrassment, are far from reaching a tenth of what they promised when they were in the opposition. Allow me, Mr Paul Sá, to tell Mrs Mariana Mortágua that I do not need to make an inquiry to the Bureau to answer, telling her that it is appropriate not to do what you just did, that it is to respond to what I did not say. I spoke in closing schools for lack of employees and not that it was promoted by Prof. Nogueira, however missing. That's what I was concerned about, so it's not worth talking about closing schools, because that's not what I said. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] With regard to Mr Sá, who accuses us of making a political number on the Budget, I say the following: no, Mr Sá, you know that for us the Budget is not like playing legos, so we do not make political numbers. We don't do political numbers, sir! The budget is a serious debate! And since it is serious and not how to play the legions, it should be noted that it is perfectly possible to discuss parts of the budget without discussing, for example, what is the forecast revenue for each of the taxes. It is not possible to have a position of all the scope of the Budget without having such essential data! And you know something else? There is a difference between whim and compliance with the law. Mr President, you think it is a whim to send to Parliament what the law requires you to send and Mr says "surely that it is a whim, well the Minister, who does not send the information! For we only say "the law is fulfilled, because that is why the law has been approved! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u383	You're falsifying reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u384	And I remember that the honourable Member did not disagree with that point of law. Why do you think he's so irrelevant now? For one simple reason, Mr President, the attitude of the Communist Party — and this has to be said very directly — is the attitude of any communist party anywhere in the world. For many years, you thought they were passing through the raindrops with lamb talk. You only speak of freedom to gain power! They have abandoned freedom from the moment they have it and then they use every oppression to maintain the power they have succeeded in conquering! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u385	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the political statements. To that end, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u386	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has been alerting us to the serious situation in public transport companies and to the sacrifice that has been made by users and workers in the sector. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We therefore reaffirm: it is urgent to take measures that reverse the withdrawal of users of public transport which has been generated by the brutal increase in prices, the degradation of supply quality, the withdrawal of careers and movements, the attack on workers' and users' rights. It is urgent to reduce prices and extend the supply, quality and reliability of public transport. The number of workers needed for the operational sectors must be restored. Investments in infrastructure, fleets, workshops and equipment are needed, investments that need to be planned for the medium and long term, using national and Community resources fully, respecting priorities, but already designing the development of the network in an appropriate way. Tariff policy options are needed to promote, in fact, intermodality, the full use of public transport, with more scope, with fair and attractive prices, responding to current population and territory problems. It is important here to note that the honourable Members. Members still have the opportunity, at tomorrow's plenary session, to respond to these problems, approving the CFP proposals for the extension of the intermodal social pass and the Andante to their metropolitan areas, integrating all transport operators and reintroducing the 50% reduction in student and reformed passes. The vote today in committee was no good sign, with the PS and PS voting against and the CDS abstaining. But they're still in time for a good vote tomorrow. Mrs. Members, the situation in these companies has deteriorated unacceptably. It is the result of the policy that has been imposed for years. The former Government forced a number of workers below the minimum operating requirements, frozen unfavourable investments and imposed restrictions on the operation of public undertakings to hinder their operational response capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u387	Give it a hand now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u388	The Assembly of the Republic and the current government have blocked the merger and privatization processes at the STCP ( Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port ), at the Metropolitane de Lisboa, in the Carris, in the Transtejo and in the Soflua, blocking the PPPs (public-private partnerships) that were prepared and were going to survive government budget resources for tens of years. But urgent measures are required to repel the ability of companies to respond. These measures have not been taken and the situation is deteriorating. The suppression of careers and circulations in the Carris, STCP, Transtejo and Soflusa is a virtually routine reality. The waiting times in the metropolitan reach limits that there is no memory. You wait to buy a ticket or pay the pass, you wait to embark, so often on the second or third attempt, to travel as a canyon sardine. The reliability and safety of the operation are degraded to more than worrying levels. The case of the Cascais Line, CP ( Trains of Portugal ), with frequent suppressions in the offer and some accidents that have so far not had too serious consequences, is the most paradigmatic example, in addition to trains over 50 years old, resurrected every day by the workers of EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company ) and CP. In turn, it is very clear today, and all the data demonstrate, what would be the privatization of the public transport system and the famous benefits for users, so propagated by the PSD and the CDS-PP: enormous costs for users and the State without any investment in service quality. On the other hand, on the private side, concrete experience is also enlightening: see the case of South Tejo Transport ( TST ). A few months ago, the Assembly of the Republic unanimously adopted a resolution advocating immediate measures in relation to TST, in the face of a genuine abandonment of the populations, amending timetables, eliminating movements, using unconditional cars. So far there is no record that these measures have been taken and there is a worrying silence on the part of the authorities in this area. As for the public enterprises in the sector, the hearing of the Minister of the Environment in the parliamentary committee scheduled at the initiative of the CFP was well illustrated by the situation that the country and the sector have experienced: the government has been presenting limited and insufficient responses, the CFP is reporting and alerting to problems and the PSD is laughing when confronted with its own responsibilities! Things have come to this point and it must be said enough! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was with the commitment of the PC, and giving expression to the struggle of workers and the people, that it was possible to take measures to restore rights and incomes. But it is essential to move forward on this path accordingly. And this path will have to bear more fruit with the struggle and initiative of all those who, like us, do not cease to demand and contribute to a new policy. Therefore, we greet the transport users who perform dozens of actions this week in stations and terminals, after important joint days with the union movement. We welcome the struggle of workers who have come to manifest, with the professionalism and dedication of ever, their requirement for a real change and an effective response to the problems that are placed: the workers of EMEF, who mobilize and fight the dismissal of about 20 workers with precarious links at the workshops of EMEF in Lisbon — these workers must be hired as effective and not thrown into unemployment; the workers of Carristur, the strikes and demonstrations they have carried out in defense of collective bargaining and for better rights and better wages; the workers of the Transtejo, Soflusa, Metro de Lisboa, Carris, STCP, the railway sector, that in their businesses and workplaces they fight for better service to the people and for concrete measures to the problems. The CFP proposals prove that the alternative exists and that it implies a break with the path that has been followed. There are solutions, with a policy capable of responding to the problems the people and the country face. We will not give up working and fighting for this alternative, for this urgent and indispensable change. That's why they can continue to count on us. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u389	Mr Bruno Dias, the Bureau registered two Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u390	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u391	You have the floor, therefore, to ask for clarification, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u392	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, we share many of the concerns you have expressed here about the situation of public transport, not only in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon as well as throughout the country. In fact, it has already been said here by Pedro Mota Soares that the PSD/CDS government had a solution and that was simply that of privatization. But if we look at the conditions of privatization, we see that it was a ruleless privatization. If we look at, for example, the bookbooks on privatization of public transport companies in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon, we find that on public service these bookbooks did not say anything and on the protection of the rights of workers and of all the employees of these public companies were perfectly omitted. These booklets were not at least worked with the authorities, which are, in our view, an essential element in the definition of transport policy, since when we talk about transport policy we also talk about territory policy and city policy. If we are to analyze what these order books provide for the guarantees of user law, we find nothing strictly, what we find are only Excel tables that demonstrate that they intended to guarantee the profit of all those, particularly international companies, who wanted to compete in these contests. Today, we are recovering from this solution already referred to by Mr Pedro Mota Soares, and it is not easy. What has been done in the last four years with public transport companies has led to a state of degradation, not only from the point of view of the quality of service, but mainly from the point of view of what these companies represent in the quality of life of users and from the point of view of their importance in the development of territories and in the development of cities. The PS and the Government are defending a decentralized transport policy today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u393	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u394	We also defend that tariff policy is essential, not only from the point of view of social passes but also from the point of view of ensuring the sustainability of public transport undertakings. I ask Mr Bruno Dias what he thinks of these priorities already mentioned by the Government as regards the decentralization of transport policy and the importance of tariff policy for the sustainability of public works in the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u395	Mr Sérgio Azevedo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u396	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, with the respect you know that I have for you, I tell you that I do not know what is worse, whether it is the dawn of your intervention or whether it is your attempt to bleach the present. The degradation we have seen this past year in the transport sector is the result of the policy of reversals that the Government supported by you is taking forward. Mr President, the degradation of transport policy is the result of the new time, the time of stability, the time of public investment, the time of the public money that you want not to appear to face the problems that you carry in your mouth. It is better, Mr President, to assume, once and for all, what brings you here with this political statement. Mr President, stop talking about the fight, because there is no fight and we all realize, on the street, that there is no fight! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u397	Mr President, what brings you here are two errands and one discomfort, and the discomfort has to do with this government's decision that from 1 January, Carris and Metro move on to the municipal level and become the sole responsibility of the City Council of Lisbon. In fact, Mr President of the City of Loures, who has already come to the public to say that he did not agree ; then he confirms the idea of his secretary-general, who does not like others to take a kiss on your feet and carry ideas that are yours ; and, finally, he calls attention to his comrades of the Socialist Party to pay attention to what they are doing, hoping that outside, people will believe that, with 11 months of government and on the verge of approving the second State budget, you are truly concerned about the transport situation, when there is no single measure being seen by this Government of those whom you have announced here on the lever. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Bruno Dias, in conclusion, let me tell you a popular saying, because I know that you are quite appreciative of popular dictations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u398	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u399	I will finish, Mr. President. The popular saying is: « Impunity is safe when complicity is general ». Mr, your argument has a term of validity, you will not be able to be the four years of this government, in Parliament, to blame our government. Stop talking about our government, ask the Socialist Party, which is part of the government that you support. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u400	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are two things that are evident in the request for clarification made by Mr Sérgio Azevedo of the PSD. The first is that the PSD has only started walking public transport since it left the government... [[PCP and PS rice.]] ...and, therefore, it's only now that he started to notice the problems we've been reporting for years. They did well to start walking public transport, did very bad not to connect to the problems we have been reporting for years! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Or, then, you're deliberately lying when you talk about problems that have occurred now, like there's 50-year-old trains that have aged this past year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u402	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u403	The second is that, perhaps because you are not used to walking in metropolitan areas, you are with your ears affected and now you are not listening to the interventions. It is that we have come to affirm, and we continue to say, the necessary solutions to the problems that are affecting people, and on that Mr President, unfortunately, did not say a word. The criteria used by the PSD for this discussion are more enlightening about the PSD itself than about the discussion and others.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u404	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u405	We noticed well in the tone of parody, and I'd make fun of you. Members began to hear the political declaration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u406	Let's beat hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u407	... which reminded us of the tone of parody and ridicule with which they heard our intervention in the Parliamentary Commission and the screams they gave while we talked about the concrete problems affecting users and transport workers. [[PSD protests.]] Don't talk about popping up, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Deplanting is to ban the hiring of staff in the law, it is to place workers in the shelf, it is to put workers in empty rooms and without tasks, it is to ban the hiring of services and equipment for workshops, it is to ensure that workshops do not respond to problems. And now they come to accuse what is happening today as if it had begun now? Oh, my God! That's a disembarkation, sir! We cannot deal with this attitude in the political debate. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] We must not fail to say, as far as concerns are concerned about the problems which are visible and which are felt in transport undertakings, that concerns are fair and that this attitude of observation, registration and expression of concern is noted. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this message is for all: we must be consistent, we must turn from words to actions and we must take concrete steps in terms of what needs to be resolved in transport undertakings, not only in the operational part, not only in the economic and financial part, not only in compliance with the law regarding the repeal of mergers, but also in terms of tariff and fiscal systems. I want to draw your attention again, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PCP bill, which will be voted in this Chamber tomorrow on the establishment of a tariff system that provides for the social pass and the Walk in the metropolitan areas as an inclusive, comprehensive solution, which now responds to people's problems, which responds to 50% discount on students and pensioners, which should never have been stolen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u408	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u409	The challenge remains for the honourable Members. Members so that tomorrow this fair, appropriate and effective measure for the problems that are also being felt in the tariff section will finally be resolved by a decision of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u410	We have reached the end of the debate on this agenda item. We will then make the joint assessment of petition No 66 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Antonio Carlos Carvalho and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to approve a special retirement scheme for pre-school and pre-school teachers. the cycle of basic education, and draft resolution No 527 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value long-term contributions ( BE ). To present the draft resolution, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, it is up to me to welcome the petitioners who are present here — to whom I apologize for being behind the scenes — and all the teachers of 1. the cycle, which certainly share the concerns that this petition brought us. This is a good opportunity for the Bloc to bring back to the House a claim of always: the right to reform for those who worked for a whole life, for those who started early, for those who worked hard, for those who discounted a lot over 40 years of discounts, over 40 years of contributing career. That is, the right to retire. In our perspective, this is an individual right of each worker and it is a responsibility of society as a collective towards the contribution of each worker to society. But today we propose a slightly broader view on this issue of valuing contributing careers. We propose that the Government and the Members of Parliament and Members look to the value of long-term contribution careers as a way of dynamising the economy and as a way of improving the quality of public services. The PSD and the CDS have brought to this House today speeches of concern to public officials and therefore I think we are on the right track to approve this draft resolution, which provides for retirement with 40 years of discounts, regardless of age. And above all, we also propose that you think of the importance that a measure of this nature would have in public school. It is recognized and consensual that the teaching body of the public school is aged, has been led to forced aging, because the doors of the school are closed to the younger ones and the older ones are forced to stay up to and including later. Today, we have a teaching body that is demobilized and this naturally affects the quality of the public school, because these teachers and these teachers — 47% of them are over 50 years old and only 0, 9% are under 30 years old — as much as they like to teach and as much as they want to do very well what they know how to do, they are already tired and already deserve their right to rest. It is that educating a class of 25, 26 or 30 students is not an easy task for any of us, much less for someone who has already worked a whole life. There is another problem: most of our schools have their majority of the aged faculty, which means that very soon and in a few years we will see the majority of the teachers leaving schools. The transmission of the heritage, identity, knowledge that these teachers have and that should be transmitted to the next generation of teachers is concerned. We are not allowing this transmission and we are going to have a serious problem when 50% of teachers leave public schools alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u412	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u413	I will finish, Mr. President. In addition to thinking about the appreciation of the teachers of the 1. the cycle—and it is necessary to think about it because they have been discriminated against—we have to think about this issue of teacher reform as an important issue for the quality of public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u414	Mr Maria Germana Rocha, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the nearly 6000 signatories of this petition, which aims to comply with the principle of equality with regard to the rules applicable to children's educators and teachers of 1. the cycle of basic education by comparison with the remaining cycles, through the replacement of a special retirement regime, extinguished in 2005, during a period of socialist governance, being at the time Prime Minister the Eng.o José Socrates. If there is anything that no one has doubts, that in order to have good students, first of all, we must have good teachers, motivated and with adequate training and experience for the exercise of their mission, to train and educate our children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u416	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u417	Educators and teachers who, in the present case, teach in a teaching program considered crucial in the development of the personal and professional course of these same children. But the main constraint of a teacher or an educator, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly the lack of conditions to carry out their duties in a dignified manner. This lack of conditions generated in the cuts of money, which we are witnessing today in many of our schools, in the lack of human resources, in particular operational assistants and essential and basic means to their full functioning, or even in the few links of teachers that occurred during the year 2016. The current government, in response to this House, clearly denies the objectives of this petition, not recognizing neither the existence of the discrepancies invoked by the petitioners nor the possibility of replacement of a special retirement scheme, again invoking the legislation published in 2005. The PSD, as a responsible and reformist party, advocates the urgent need for structural reforms in these areas and therefore presented to this Parliament in June a proposal for reform of social security, which, of course, the united left has rushed to reject. In this respect, Mr Vieira da Silva has recently said that this reform is simply unnecessary and inappropriate, not being available for discussion. But because we understand that success in school depends on the involvement and commitment of all, we do not just push the problems with the belly, we first make ourselves available to analyze them in a serious and realistic way and to work towards finding just and equitable but sustainable solutions to the conditions and resources that currently exist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u418	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the petitioners who have subscribed to this petition, who have proposed a special retirement scheme for teachers of pre-school education and 1. the cycle of basic education. First of all, it should be borne in mind that in 2006 the possibility of a special retirement scheme was removed. This occurred during the consulate of Mr. José Socrates Pinto de Sousa, in accordance with Law No. 60 / 2005 and Decree-Law No. 229 / 2005, which led to the convergence of the social protection regime of public service and the general social security regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u420	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u421	Then, multiple bonus schemes and exceptions in the pension system were eliminated; more specifically, 24 schemes were repealed, and the group with the largest number of people covered by this revocation was perhaps even those of children and teachers of basic and secondary education. Let us also not forget the exceptional measures taken since 2008, which still apply to children's educators and teachers of 1. the cycle, and let me record that the Left Block today only presents a draft resolution and not a bill on the subject. [[Well remembered! All right! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u422	We've done more than the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u423	But, turning to the question, the truth is that the question of the retirement of teachers from higher education cannot fail to comply with their very own and specific working conditions. In fact, this is the subject on which petitions have been repeated and which the CDS, indisputably, believes to be worthy of reflection, consensus and decision. It must be acknowledged that in the exercise of this profession, in which teachers provide a demanding and fundamental public service, working conditions have long been in profound change and evolution. Our teachers assume roles and interventions that, in addition to multifunctional and multifunctional, are increasingly responsible. The teacher's career is long and very exhausting, both physically and emotionally. Still, there is a manifest lack of knowledge, by the community, of what it implies and means the teaching profession, namely what is the planning of its activity, the work of studying the subjects and preparing the classes, of running teaching materials for students, of developing, correcting and evaluating tests, the continuous monitoring and counseling of students, the supported study, the management of classes, tutoring and contacts with families, etc. , everything every hour and every day of the week and also, yes, at night outside, on weekends and holidays. In other words, for teachers it is always Monday, which distinguishes them from other careers of public service, which, it is emphasized, does not intend to diminish in any way. Mr President — Mrs Deputy, you have already exceeded your time. I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u424	Nevertheless, the teaching activity has been losing the social prestige that is due to it by the community and, as a professional activity, has been very little valued, and even its experience is often diminished. Teachers are not considered or presented to public opinion as leading actors and partners, it is not taken into account their contribution and importance to the development and well-being of the community,... Mr President — You must conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u425	... for the quality of education and, undoubtedly, for the country's own future. Therefore, and I conclude, Mr President, and as I have already mentioned at the beginning of this intervention, it is the understanding of the CDS-PP that there is a need to make a serious reflection on the specificities of its career and, therefore, it is justified that it is decided, defined and distinguished its retirement scheme through a balanced solution, which also meets the national financial context, so that commitments can be made. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u426	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by greeting the honourable Members. Applicants applying for the approval of a special retirement scheme for pre-school and 1 teachers. the cycle of basic education. The CFP considers that the right to reform acquired over several years of work is an essential right of workers to be valued. in this sense, we have presented, over several years, several legislative initiatives and already in this legislature we highlight the bill No 140 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), which values the long-term contribution careers, ensuring the early retirement without penalties to beneficiaries who complete 40 years of discounts. As for the education sector, it is widely recognized the physical and psychological wear that childhood educators and teachers suffer throughout their careers, that which leads to enormous pressure and overload on the teacher and leads to commitment not only the quality of pedagogical practice as the quality of teaching itself, so we also presented draft resolution No 441/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). The fact is that, in our country, there are numerous examples of long careers contributing to workers for whom the situation is understandablely worsened in the most exhausting sectors of activity and what happens is that even with 40 years of contributions, if these workers decide to retire before the age of 65 they will suffer enormous reductions in the value of their pensions, with the application of the reduction factor imposed by the mechanisms of flexible retirement age. The CFP has always defended the valorization of long-term contributory careers, careers that reveal the linkage of workers to social security, reflect their discounts throughout a lifetime of work in the financing of social protection that is due them, also ensuring intergenerational solidarity. They should therefore be duly valued in respect of the rights associated with them in respect of retirement age and the right to a decent pension. If this is done, the CFP considers that social protection rights are being valued not only by workers but also by encouraging workers in general and, in particular, by new generations of workers to enter into social security. In defence of the right of retirement for employees of the Public Administration, including children's educators and teachers, we believe that it is necessary to work, from now on, on access to reform without penalties or reductions for long-term workers and on the identification of measures and conditions to enable the application of retirement schemes relating to specific situations. It is in respect of the contribution that thousands of workers have already made to the country, to the production of wealth and to the public system of social security that the CFP considers this to be a proposal for the most basic justice, and that is why we reaffirm the commitment to continue the struggle and to intervene in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u428	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u429	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the petitioners, recognizing the concerns presented. The petitioners ask the Assembly of the Republic for a special retirement scheme for pre-school and 1 teachers. the basic education cycle, supporting its request in a comparative analysis of the service time provided by teachers at different levels of education. There is no doubt that service time issues and their management in different cycles deserve to be considered. In fact, this issue is one that matters to the global conditions of teaching in pre-school education and 1. the cycle of basic education, as, in fact, has been marked by several voices of teachers, including unions. We are careful and hope that negotiations with guardianship, which should begin sooner than later, will also result in progress in this area. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unquestionable that being a teacher, for reasons we all know and recognize, is an increasingly demanding task, whose contribution to the future of our society is essential, thus justifying greater social and political recognition. The social and professional appreciation of teachers, of all teachers, in their multiple dimensions, is paramount in an educational system that we all want more effective and efficient and therefore with the highest quality. It should be recalled that the Socialist Party advocates the convergence of special schemes with the general social security regime because we believe that this way we better defend the pension system as a central element of the social state. This same guideline is also included in the XXI Constitutional Government Programme, in order to defend the sustainability of the pension system. Therefore, we continue to believe that teachers, all teachers, and the issues relating to their career and retirement arrangements have very specificities that cannot be determined by avulgesive measures. The dignity and appreciation of the teaching class does not harmonize with these processes, often generating more injustice. Thus, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers it necessary to set up new solutions to enable the allocation of teaching functions, taking into account their age and length of service, especially at the end of the career and even reaching the retirement age, recognizing the existence of situations that deserve added weight. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group reiterates its firm confidence and recognition of petitioners and all teachers in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u430	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u431	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the 6000 petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic in order to request the reinstatement of a special retirement scheme for pre-school teachers and 1. the cycle of basic education. Perhaps I would like to begin by making a statement that seems relevant to me and that is the following: respect for teachers and the dignity of teachers is not measured by the beautiful speeches that are made—and here some have even been heard — but, yes, by the concrete proposals that are made and by the concrete policies that are being promoted. And there, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be hoped that in some parliamentary groups « does not hit the boot well with the partridge», because, as far as the dignity they now say they want for this teaching class, when they had the opportunity to take concrete measures and solutions, they did exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u432	There's memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u433	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this petition and its text call for a reflection on the conditions of teaching, teaching time and retirement. What the Greens consider is that there are things that, of such gruelingness, have to have an answer, and we have already brought them to the Assembly of the Republic for several times, in exactly the search for these answers. For example, it makes no sense that paragraph 1. the cycle does not contain as leisure time, it does not make sense that curriculum enrichment activities do not take place in post-school hours and what does not make minimal sense is that PSD and CDS have worked towards increasing the number of students per class, withdrawing conditions in the classroom for better learning and for better school and educational success. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like to say that the legislative process on the reduction of the number of students per class, for which The Greens contributed, is taking place in the Assembly of the Republic and that we would very much like to see it completed successfully, even in a gradual way. And, speaking gradually on the subject of retirement, the Greens presented a draft resolution to the Assembly of the Republic that proposed, as the only condition, the 36 years of service and discounts — this was the goal we wanted to achieve — but we put the hypothesis of, in a gradual way, meeting the 40 years of service and discounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u434	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u435	I will finish, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the Greens' draft resolution has fallen. We regret, but we will continue to insist on solutions and beat our feet so that these justices materialize. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u436	Mrs. Members, we conclude the joint discussion of petition No 66 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and draft resolution No 527 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ). We move to the last point of our journey with the appreciation of petition No 5 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Submitted by the Algarve Free Petroleum Platform ( PALP ), asking the Assembly of the Republic to defend an Algarve free from research, exploration, exploitation and production of oil and natural gas (conventional or non-conventional) together in general with the projects of lein.os 334 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Obligations to assess the environmental impact of exploration and extraction operations of oil and natural gas ( BE ), 337 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Revocation of Decree-Law No 109 / 94 of 26 April which regulates the access and exercise of exploration, research, development and production of oil in Portugal ( PAN ) and 338 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Making environmental impact assessment mandatory for the exploration and research phases of hydrocarbons, promoting the third amendment to Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October establishing the new legal regime for environmental impact assessment of public and private projects likely to produce significant effects on the environment (The Greens) and also with draft resolutions No 528 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — Suspension of contracts for prospecting, research, development and production of hydrocarbons in Algarve and Costa Alentejana (The Greens) and 529 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt new energy options and carry out a rigorous and independent assessment of the prospecting, research, development and oil production contracts in the Algarve ( PS ). To present the bill of the Left Block and to intervene on the petition, Mr. Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u437	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, whom I would like to begin by greeting: Local movements, environmental movements that have been pronounced in Portuguese society against the continuation of contracts for the granting of oil and gas in Portuguese territory are the strongest, richest, wider and more collective expression of the critical awareness of Portuguese citizenship regarding climate change. If it should be cared for, critical awareness of climate change has one of its most important expressions in these movements. The Left Block has defended the end of these concessions. They do not make any sense, and if they should never have been made much less should have been renewed, when what is at present in question on the international agenda is that 80 % of the reservations already identified should remain on the ground and not be extracted. At the time that this is found, the Portuguese Government's referral to the prospecting and demand for new reservations is a mistake and it is a misunderstanding. Today, what is needed and most urgent is to stop the process of these concessions, especially since Galp and Repsol have already announced the intention to start the drilling next year. In order to do so, we must prevent the realization of prospecting and then the exploitation of the horse from being carried out in an anachronistic law, in a scleroized law, which, when made in 1994, was already a law in favour of the oil sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u438	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u439	at that time, the law was made by creating a more user-friendly, more user-friendly and more open regime than the one that existed before and that was already the norm to practice internationally.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u440	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u441	It does not even require prospection what normally requires environmental impact assessment legislation for pig farming or cellulose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u442	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u443	To place the environmental impact assessment both at the level of exploitation and exploration and to give time for this consultation is to open up space for a public debate — and I conclude, Mr President — very relevant, very important and must now be done when it is at stake to prevent this exploitation from progressing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u444	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u445	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We thank all the petitioners who have brought this important issue to Parliament and, in particular, all those who have traveled hundreds of miles to be present in this debate. There is something profoundly wrong with national design around the environment and people's lives. If on the one hand we ratify the Paris Agreement and point out that the central objective of national policy is to decarbonise the economy, on the other hand we validate the possibility of exploration and extraction of oil and gas in the country. With this political incoherence, it is irrational to expect the emission of greenhouse gases to be mitigated by extracting more hydrocarbons. And at this point, yes, we are radical. To be radical is to go to the root of the problem, is to prevent any progress in this activity, is to contribute to a country that is more interested in people and the environment than to markets and economic agents. Our position is that we do not exercise cosmetics to the legislation that regulates the exploitation of oil and gas. For the NAP, the path goes by stopping the exploration of oil in Portugal through the repeal of the law. The NAP argues that the only environmental, economic and social path is to build a fossil-free economy using 100 % clean and sustainable energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u446	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u447	We will not give up this struggle, which is the struggle to defend the interests of people and our common home.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u448	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u449	I will finish, Mr. President. Our political determination exists, only that of the other parties. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u450	You have the floor for one speech, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u451	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the petitioners who force the Assembly of the Republic once again to discuss the subject of the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Algarve. The Greens also consider that a possibility of research and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Algarve is at odds with that which is the target of decarbonisation, going to the Paris Agreement, which was ratified here by the Assembly of the Republic, and the objective of combating climate change. But we imagine that none of this scenario was on the table. Still, the Greens would consider it a terrible mistake to move forward towards a research and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Algarve and the Costa Alentejana, since we have to take into account the characteristics of this region, its development potential, so that economic sectors in which we want to bet and for which harmonious, balanced and sustainable development in which we want to bet. In fact, tourism, fishing, agriculture, bivalves culture, etc. , none of this, in harmony, is compatible with a possibility of research and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Algarve. in this sense, The Greens once again considered that, with the discussion of the petition, by drag, it was to bring legislative initiatives to the Assembly of the Republic, and what we propose is, on the one hand, a change to the environmental impact assessment law, so that nothing is left out of this matter, and on the other hand, the suspension of contracts for the promotion of a wide public debate with the population and with all the actors concerned in the region. This debate has not been held in a broad way. And the question we are asking is, what is the fear of debate? On the other hand, and even to conclude, I would like to record the following question: the Government has already said that it would not conclude any new contracts. It is not enough for us, as it is obvious, because there are contracts in force. But the government that understands once and for all that we would not accept any renewal of contracts, and here we are to beat our feet on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u452	Mr António Eusébio, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u453	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners on this initiative and to provide a public debate on one of the most important issues for the Algarve, involving citizens, city halls, entrepreneurs and now the Assembly of the Republic itself. I also welcome the way they have been able to inform citizens about the possible impacts that a measure of this can have on a region with high tourism, sea and, also, with a very high biodiversity, in which more than 35% of its territory is protected by conventions and legislation. Algarve is one of the national regions where tourism is of greater economic importance and is the one that contributes most to gross domestic product from tourism. in this sense, we believe that procedures should not be adopted that may call into question the value of the goods offered by the Algarve in this sector, but, yes, we must do everything to preserve it. The prospecting, research, development and production of hydrocarbons can lead to environmental risks. In July a draft resolution was adopted in this House and the Government has already taken measures to accept these recommendations. We reiterate and consider it crucial to carry out environmental impact studies for any prospecting action, and the Government should monitor the genesis and, in particular, the implementation of the contracts in force today, with the aim of preventing and precaution of the possible risks of oil and/or natural gas exploration in the Algarve. However, it should be borne in mind that, very recently, Portugal has initiated a process of ratification of the agreement called COP21 and the visible effects of climate change, at an increasingly rapid pace, recommend the need to improve the energy performance of each region. The energy capture model through hydrocarbons is increasingly moving away from the innovative and sustainable methodologies that have emerged over the past few decades. One of the means to achieve this will undoubtedly be the use of energy from renewable sources.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u454	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u455	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Algarve region has sufficient resources to promote this type of energy, including solar and wind energy, and the Algarve can be placed in a pioneering position with regard to environmental sustainability. Therefore, Mr President, the Government should also consider the implementation and implementation of new renewable energy projects in the Algarve region as a priority, also placing itself on the strengthening of the available electricity network. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u456	Mr José Carlos Barros of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u457	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet the petitioners and greet them for providing a debate on this matter. I would start by recalling that since 1939 the State has authorized the exploration of hydrocarbons, which over these years have already carried out more than 175 prospecting surveys and that only in the last decade have been signed, by different governments, 17 contracts. The contracts in force are not new — sometimes it seems! — and do not in itself allow the exploitation of hydrocarbons, as has recently clarified the opinion of the Office of the Attorney-General of the Republic. This has always been our understanding: that these contracts are of research and prospect, that the country should not abdicate to know and map its resources and that it is necessary a set of other assumptions for us to be discussing the exploitation of hydrocarbons with economic viability. From then on, to approve a development and production plan, to take place environmental impact assessment, to have a public consultation process, to be issued by the State of the Environmental Impact Declaration, in accordance with the law currently in force. In other words, several stages of intervention by the State. Now, if the PS thinks differently today in press statements, a PS Member has made it clear that the draft resolution he is presenting — and I quote — 'has implied the aim of not renewing the prospecting concessions', if this is what the PS and the majority of parliament are defending, the obvious question is: what has prevented the government so far and what prevents it from doing so now and from now on, with its majority in parliament, from acting accordingly, giving rise to what it says and recommends?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u458	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u459	I remember some of the contracts are ending, they're ending. That is a question that we should ask, because to say it is different from to ask and, on our part, we reiterate the principles contained in our draft resolution, which was plunged by this majority. On the one hand, I repeat what we have already said more than once: to assume without hesitation, as a primacy and starting point of any discussion on exploitation, the understanding, which is clear to us, that tourism and environmental sustainability are the central elements of the Algarve development strategies and, as regards the existing prospecting concessions — and I will finish — the need to ensure scrupulously compliance with contracts, legal and environmental monitoring, public information and transparency. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u460	Also for an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u461	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I confess that, on this subject, I would like to see an enlightening debate, because the algae deserved it, but a debate based on facts and not on assumptions, a debate on reality and not on preconceived ideas, an informed debate and not on the noise of the social alarm that has been created artificially. First fact: they currently operate in the Algarve, exploration and research activities of hydrocarbons, within the framework of concessions made in accordance with the law, law that the NAP simply wants to revoke. Mr. André Silva, do you know what would happen if the law was revoked? I could make exploration and exploration of oil at the door of your home,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u462	Don't! It's not allowed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u463	...without even needing an environmental impact study. That's it! There would be a legal vacuum, there would be an absolute legal void and a deregulation. That's what would happen! It was good for them to study the questions better. Secondly, the Attorney-General of the Republic has already stated that the concession for exploration and research does not mean that there is authorization for oil exploration, i.e. if, within eight years of the date of signature of the contract for exploration and research, there is an interest in the exploration, the State will have to make a new assessment of environmental impact, with public discussion, and will have to make a plan for the development and production of oil. In other words, a decision on exploitation will always depend on the government, in this case the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by VV. For example, from the radical left and from the extreme left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u464	Does that mean the CDS is extreme right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u465	We're getting in a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u466	... with compulsory participation of citizens and authorities. I am very curious that there is no coincidence between what the Left Block says in the Algarve, and even here in the Plenary, and what it presents as an initiative. You say 'it is necessary to end these contracts', but what you present as an initiative is the requirement for environmental impact studies. Well, that doesn't coincide with reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u467	He has already exceeded his time, Mrs. Member and Vice-President of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u468	I shall now conclude, Mr President, by saying only the following: in the last 20 years there have been contracts for prospecting and research and none of them have reached the exploration stage. What is curious is that all this concern has only arisen this past year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u469	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy. It's a matter of equity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u470	It is, in fact, a perplexity which I would like you to see. Members on the left would clarify to us, in particular Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u471	Mr Paulo Sá has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u472	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by complimenting the 7400 subscribers of the petition today under discussion. Only four months ago, the Assembly of the Republic discussed and approved a draft CFP resolution on the exploration and exploitation of oil and natural gas in the Algarve and the Alentejan coast. In particular, the CFP proposal was approved which recommended that the Government promote environmental impact assessments, determining the risks resulting from the exploration and research of oil and natural gas and defining the measures that should be taken to eliminate or minimize those risks. This was an important step taken on the initiative of the CFP. It is important, because it politically links the Government to promoting these assessments. We can therefore state that from the adoption of the CFP proposal, which has become a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, any prospecting and research operation, such as those in the Algarve, should be preceded by an environmental impact assessment. The legislative initiatives of the Greens and the BE, today under discussion, complement the proposal of the CFP, making the environmental impact assessment not only politically but also legally binding at the prospecting phase. Of course, the CFP will follow these initiatives. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal of the CFP, approved four months ago, also contains other important advances, among which we highlight the recommendation for the Government to promote the assessment of the impact of possible oil exploitation on other economic activities, particularly tourism. These assessments, of environmental impact and impact on other economic activities, promoted by public entities with adequate human and material resources for this purpose, should sustain a broad public debate, with the participation of the populations, the autarchs, environmental associations and economic agents, which will allow the advantages and disadvantages, the opportunity and conditions of the use of national, renewable and non-renewable energy resources in order to ensure the energy sovereignty of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-10-26.u473	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the debate on petition No 5 / XIII ( 1. a ) in conjunction with the projects of lein.o 334 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 337 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 338 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and with draft resolutions 528 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 529 / XIII ( 2. ( a). Consequently, we have also reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will have an extensive agenda. So, first of all, we will carry out a joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.o 315 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Converts reductions to public grants for the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns to a final and permanent effect and to the ceilings of election campaign expenditure ( PSD ), 314 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June introducing measures for fiscal justice, equal treatment and transparency in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns ( BE ), 304 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), eliminating the benefit of municipal property tax exemption ( IMI ) for political parties ( CDS-PP ), 331 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ) with definitive reductions in public grants for the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns and at the maximum limits of election campaign expenditure ( CDS-PP ), 332 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Revoke some of the benefits of political parties provided for in Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, and reduce the values of the financing of electoral campaigns ( PAN ), 333 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of 10 % deduction on the grant of political parties for more than two years ( PAN) and 336 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduce public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns ( CFP ). Next, draft resolution No 331 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Consecrate May 16 as the Day of Scientists ( PS ). Thirdly, we will jointly, in general, appreciate the projects of lein.os 264 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July establishing the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from national territory ( BE) and 240 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reposition of limits on the expulsion of foreign nationals from national territory ( Fourth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for entry, stay, exit and removal of aliens from national territory ) ( CFP ). Fourthly, we shall carry out a joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 526 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a new model of State financing for the social and solidarity sector with regard to the use of social services and equipment ( CDS-PP ) and 525 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a new form of updating the values of the Social Sector Cooperation Agreements ( PSD ). Fifthly, we will discuss draft resolution No 380 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures contributing to the reduction of costs with fuel ( CFP ). Sixthly, we will also undertake a joint assessment of draft resolutions 524 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Because of the need to solve environmental problems in the Formosa River and for the suspension of the demolition announced on the Isles of Barriers ( The Greens ), 498 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of new demolitions, the dialogue with populations and the recognition of the economic, social and cultural value of the population nuclei of the slums of the Formosa River ( BE ), 521 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — At the end of the demolition process in the boreholes of the Formosa River ( PCP ) and 530 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around the requalification and enhancement of the Formosa River ( PS ). Finally, Bill No. 339 / XIII ( 2 ) is still scheduled. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 33 / 2016 of 24 August, clarifying the provisions relating to the conduct of financial, technical and legal studies on the future development of TDT ( PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ), but without time for discussion. At 6 p.m. there will be a vote on the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Members, before we are finished, please inform me that it will now take place in the Library, with a two-hour delay, the opening ceremony of the exhibition Library of Courts — 180 Years Evocative Memory. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 56 minutes.]]
