ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Members of the Government, Minister of Justice, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authority officers opening the galleries. Today there is no file, so we are directly on the agenda, which is under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, in the current debate required by the PSD, on consolidation of reforms in justice. To open the debate, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u2	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: The previous legislation was highlighted by the enormous difficulties imposed on Portuguese by the 2011 pre-bankrota, direct fruit, we never forget, of the government irresponsibility of the then socialist Executive. in this extremely unfavorable background, in which financial and budgetary contingencies were revealed to be the first of all priorities, the PSD/CDS coalition government took on, however, the task of deeply reforming the justice sector that the generality of international and national observers considered one of the main obstacles to the development of the country, an old problem in which almost all agreed in the negative diagnosis, but in which the solutions were inevitably postponed, due to the omnipresent fear of offending one of the many installed interests. This was not the case with the former Government. With a bold commitment to affirming its convictions, the team led by Dr. Paula Teixeira da Cruz, to whom the PSD Parliamentary Group here pays tribute, started an intense renewal of justice, both in substantive and adjective legal plans, and in the reorganization of the judicial structures network. It should be noted that in the area of justice, contrary to what happened in other sectors of governance, the Memorandum which the Government of the Socialist Party has negotiated and signed with the troika did not constitute a significant aid for the reforms intended. The questions of justice were presented there in a scattered way, without a necessary strategic and global vision capable of facilitating solutions to the problems. However, it would not be that gap, the responsibility of those who traded the Memorandum in a hurry, which would serve as a pretext for the possible and already proverbial inaction to leave everything as before. In order only in order to exemplify the much that has been done, either by impulse of the Government or by action of the Parliament, we stress: the new Code of Civil Process; the Law of the Organization of the Judiciary System; the regulation of the judicial map; criminal and procedural reform; the reform of the Code of Insolence and of Recovery of Enterprises either by impulse of the Government or by action of Parliament, we stress: the new Code of Civil Process; the new Code of Civil Procedure; the Law of the Organization of the Judiciary System; the regulation of the judicial map; criminal and judicial reform; criminal and judicial reform; the reform of the Code of Insolence and Recovery and Recovery of Business Recovery and Recovery and Recovery and Reconciliation ; the reform of the Code of Criminal Code of Criminal Procedures against minors; the National Plan of Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation of Rehabilitation and reintegration and reintegration of Criminal Crime; the Criminal Enforcement Order of Lawyers, Criminal Procedures; criminal offences against criminal offences and criminal offences; criminal offences; criminal punishment; criminal punishment; criminal punishment and criminal punishment; criminal punishment; criminal punishment; criminal punishment; criminal punishment and criminal offences and criminal offences and criminal offences and criminal offences and criminal law and criminal offences and criminal offences and criminal law and criminal offences and criminal law and criminal law; the crime; the crime and criminal law; the crime; the crime and criminal law and criminal law and the crime and the crime and the crime; the criminal law; the crime and enforcement and the criminal law; the criminal law; the crime; the crime and the crime and the crime and enforcement and the crime and the criminal law; the criminal law and the criminal law and the crime and the criminal law and the crime and the crime and the crime and the criminal law; the crime and the criminal law and the criminal law; the crime and the crime and the criminal law and the criminal law; the criminal law; the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and enforcement and enforcement and the criminal and enforcement and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal law; the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal and Finally, the review of how the citizen relates to the State, to the Public Administration and to the administrative courts is highlighted in the new Code of Administrative Procedure, in the reform of the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals and the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. Members: in a general climate, we repeated, of great financial and economic adversity, a political crisis that found only parallel in the times immediately following 25 April 1974, without being able to find in any political force the opposition, at any time of the last four years, the sense of essential state to realize the inevitability of this turn of page in Portuguese justice, the government of the PSD/CDS coalition did not hesitate to do what had to be done. of political actors only in the past four years we have found no constructive criticisms, promises of electoralism easy to go back and sworn refusal of innovation in a sector that so much it needs. In the meantime, the extreme-left parties, which sometimes parliamentaryly support the socialist government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u3	A former MIRN leader (Independent Movement for National Reconstruction) speaking of extreme left! That's where this came from!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u4	... make intimidating statements about the fatal reversal of all the work done. of the Minister of Justice, however, we know nothing about this. International bodies have repeatedly praised our reforms of justice. Commissioner Viviane Reding, already in June 2014, had pointed out that what was going on in Portuguese justice was a reference to the various justice systems in Europe. Experts and diplomatic officials sought to inform themselves of how these reforms were being carried out. And now, very recently, the IMF...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u5	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u6	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, very recently, the IMF, in a working paper on the impact of reforms in Portugal on the justice sector, during the Economic and Financial Adjustment Programme between 2011 and 2014, does not hesitate to say that these can be among the most successful reforms carried out in this sector. And he says more, he says the impressive changes, the impressive progress in the short and medium term in which some of the key reforms, such as the new management structure for the judicial system and the performance based on the workload of the courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u7	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. The analysis does not forget the implementation problems that some reforms have experienced, in particular the computer justice system at the time of the entry into force of the new judicial map, but also refers to « a temporary paralysis of the system, which continued for a long period of time». But, honestly, the study also recognizes...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u9	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u10	I will now conclude, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u11	But you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u12	I said that the study also acknowledges that due to the « persistence of the authorities, these issues have been largely overcome ». Mr Minister of Justice, more than a month after her take-up, the Minister has remained silent in this and other matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u13	Mr President, your time is clearly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u14	Mr President, I would just ask the benefit of asking a question. We want to know: what plans does the Minister have for the reforms that justice has experienced over the past four years? What is your view of the international analyses that highlight the courage of the former Executive and place his reforming work in the area of justice in the benchmark? Is the Government and the Minister prepared to continue the serious monitoring of reforms in order to improve, as has always been the intention of the previous Government?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u15	You've spent your time a long time, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u16	It is not time to continue this silence and if he has an end here and now, the PSD Parliamentary Group will give itself to be satisfied. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u17	Mrs. Members, these debates have a time grid of a certain kind precisely because they are exceptional debates, and therefore it is another reason for strict compliance with the times that are distributed, not only to the parliamentary group that requires the debate, but to all, including the government. Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs : I present two cases to the House. First case : Court of Loures transformed into Comarca de Lisboa Norte, where the competences of the courts of Alenquer, Vila Franca de Xira, Torres Vedras, Cadaval, Lourinhã, and in addition to the competences of the Court of Commerce, passed. It works in pre-fabricated, without security conditions to keep proceedings and with officials, judges, lawyers and witnesses without minimum conditions of dignity, and no space to move.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u20	Second, the extinction of the Comarca de Castro Daire, forcing the population to go to the Viseu Court, in many cases 75 km away (75 km there and 75 km back) or to the Tribunal de Satão which, in turn, operates on dependencies of the Municipal Chamber due to insufficient facilities of the court itself. These are two portraits, one from the Grande Lisboa area, another from the Interior, where is what has been the right legacy in recent years in the field of justice... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u21	... and that a former PSD Minister, nor a moment of rare literary and oral inspiration called « demonic fury ». That's the legacy of the right in justice in recent years! [[Congratulations from BE.]] A monumental trick in the area of computerization, authentic chaos, with dire delays, a judicial map applied to transport-mouse, without any other criterion if not to cut the stake in the public service of justice and with clear results: reduction of 1000 employees and cutting the entire investment in the qualification of equipment and personnel; climate of unpublished conflict,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u22	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u23	... with the opposition of all judicial operators and the unacceptable closure to the approval of the new statutes of the judiciary; chronic deficit of judicial officials, with the retirement of about 400 only in the last year and an aggregate deficit forecast between 1200 and 1700 judicial officials. Bloody demon! This is the legacy of the right-wing government in the justice sector, with the rule of law seriously challenged, with true democracy seriously damaged. It has to be this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice, this can only be the starting point for thinking, with a strategic sense, the future of the public good justice in our country and not an IMF report, which in this regard must be as certain as the IMF studies on automatic multipliers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u24	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u25	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: Justice is an absolutely fundamental pillar of our democracy. It is essential in a democratic rule of law. And in the face of the situation of justice in Portugal, which is especially marked by laxity and where procedural expectations are inundated, governments are required to play a role — which is, moreover, theirs — in order to build a system of justice that is faster, more efficient and, above all, more accessible to citizens. And what has the PSD/CDS government done in the last four years? He did exactly the opposite. First, it increased the legal costs so that citizens do not resort to courts, thus denying access to the right to justice, which is the obligation of the State to guarantee, and then closing dozens of courts, further removing the justice of the citizens. He closed courts, disqualified them in mere extensions, concentrated judicial valences in district capitals and, above all, removed citizens from justice, a right which our Constitution elevates as fundamental right. The PSD/CDS government imposed an unfair set of criteria for reducing courts in many localities, without even taking into account the means in which each of the courts, socio-economic characteristics and even accessibility in terms of population mobility. The result could be no other: the worsening conditions of Portuguese access to justice, especially those living with more economic difficulties. With the closure of the courts that the PSD/CDS government played a role, the procedural volume of the closed courts was transferred to other courts that were already completely in process. In many cases, the PSD/CDS government has not even complied with the criteria itself. We refer, for example, to the criterion of the procedural volume of less than 250 cases, or also to the criterion of the court which has received the proceedings far from the court of origin of less than one hour. In other words, the PSD/CDS government did not even comply with the criteria it itself set for such a judicial map. Therefore, with this decision, the PSD/CDS government has further removed the citizens from justice, especially in regions with the most difficult mobility, and has made justice more expensive, because it is now also necessary to add the costs of travel. And as if it were little, the PSD/CDS government has yet to bring into force the new judicial map without cautioning the essential in order to ensure the normal functioning of the courts. As a result, the entry into force of the previous government's judicial map represented an unparalleled envelope in our history. It was a shame what happened, with chaos installed in justice and with the paralysis of the courts. This is all that the government has achieved with its reform: the return to the era of paper, faxes, registered letters and photocopies. Consulting processes became such a difficult task as looking for a needle in the middle of a straw. Shame! And now comes the PSD waving with the IMF report. The IMF which, in fact, must be very concerned about the lives of Portuguese citizens and their access to justice! Even if it depended on the IMF's exclusive will, there would be only one court in Portugal and call it the International Monetary Fund. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to assess the situation of justice over the past four years, it would be better to look at other reports. For example, for the Lisbon Comarca management report, which recently showed us the lack of money for printers, tones, envelopes and even lamps; for the safety of the buildings of the campus of justice, with the safety frames of metal detectors damaged at the entrance of the buildings, that is to say no more about the heating system; for the lack of judicial officials. We could also look at what the Trade Union Association of Judges says, which, a short time ago, sent a letter to the Superior Council of the Magistracy considering the prolonged failure of the elevators in the Palace of Justice of the Port. A failure which is causing difficulties in the transport of cases and also prevents the access of persons with reduced mobility to the Labour Court, a court which, as it is understood, receives many people with reduced mobility due to accidents at work. Instead of hearing what the IMF says about justice in Portugal, it might be better, more appropriate, to hear the populations that reside in the councils where the PSD/CDS government has closed the courts. It would be nice to listen to people, because it is for them that the government should govern and not for the IMF. It would be nice to hear the people who live in Boticas, in Murça, in Sabrosa, in Mesão Frio, in Resende, in Paredes de Cura, and out there are 47 courts. It would be nice to hear these people because, Minister, we consider that it is time to rule for the IMF, it is time to rule for the people, for the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u26	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: The PSD intended to bring to this House a current debate on the reforms carried out in the area of justice, praising an IMF report, which, of course, commends the reforms that have been made. I would like to say, from now on, that the IMF reports do not impress us particularly, not only because the IMF reports are dissociating themselves day by day but not day — the reports issued on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays deny the reports drawn up on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays — but, more than that, the IMF has been responsible for disastrous revenues to apply to countries such as Portugal, in which countries accept to apply the IMF's revenue which, later, recognises the disastrous consequences of what it has done to the States. Therefore, we can say that the IMF's praise for us is guilty and that in no way reassures us. With regard to the reforms that the Government has initiated in the area of justice — the last government, of course, or the penultimate government, since the latter, fortunately, had no time to implement more reforms of this nature — which naturally happens to us are the disastrous consequences, almost unanimously recognized, of the judicial map, which was the great crown of glory of the previous government. And indeed, the people who have seen their degraded courts, who have to travel dozens of kilometres, often without their ability and without transport that even allow them to go and come on the same day as those who do not have their own transport, feel, in fact, the disastrous consequences of these IMF revenues that the former government praised and the policies that have been put into practice. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim came here concerned that in the current political cycle, some of the reforms put into practice by the previous government could be distorted, destroyed or distorted. I would like to reassure you, honourable Member, because, on our part, if something good has been done in the previous Parliament, do not fear. But with regard to what has been done disastrously, namely the judicial map, it would be very good for our country that the most disastrous consequences of the judicial map could be corrected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u28	We understand that what is well done in this country, regardless of the government that has done so, must be maintained, but as for what has been done with deeply negative consequences for the populations, it is very good that it is revised and that it is indeed changed for the benefit of the people and for the sake of national development. It is essential that we look at the question of judicial officials, who have a disastrous deficit. It is good to look at the situation in the prison system, which has been completely overcrowded, and that the previous government has not, on the contrary, resolved anything worse. It is good to look at the question of the insolvency regime which has degraded workers' credits, creating absolutely dramatic situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u31	It is good that the courts that existed before the judicial map and that served the populations, their localities, can re-operate with the valences that have been dismantled, with the consequences already mentioned here, of the chaos that resulted from the entry into force of the judicial map, aggravated by the calamity that has been the collapse of Citius for several months, which the former Government intends to make us forget but we do not forget because its consequences still persist. It must therefore be said that some of the legislative measures that Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim referred to, which are not the sole merit of the previous Government, in particular in combating corruption, have been widely discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic, with contributions from all parliamentary groups and, of course, it is good that all that has been a collective work of this Parliament, in which we have all collaborated and in which we are all revising ourselves. Now all that was the responsibility of the former Government, which imposed on this Parliament and the country, with its majority, and which had profound negative consequences on Portuguese access to justice, of course, must be reconsidered and revised, for the sake of the functioning of the judicial system and for the sake of the guarantee of Portuguese rights in access to justice. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u32	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u33	Mr. President, Minister of Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: When the PSD, by the voice of Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim, called for an up-to-date debate on consolidating reforms in justice, I confess that it caused the greatest perplexity, because it would hardly be able to identify a sector or area of governance more susceptible to deep criticism than that developed by the XIX Constitutional Government. It is good to bear in mind that, as an area of sovereignty, justice and laws on justice should always deserve the widest possible support, greater consensualization, as a structural element of a rule of law. Now, the legacy of the XIX Government, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, is a legacy of deep conflict, unheard of conflict, and, I remember, I have no memory and the Member will certainly not have to see a legislature come to an end, as did the XIX Constitutional Government, with the Portuguese judges expressing a court of relations with the Minister of Justice,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u34	... with the prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office, accusing the Minister of evil, with the Order of the Advocates to accuse the Minister of gravely offensive practices of the dignity and prestige of counsel, and therefore hardly would the judicial operators make a more negative balance of the exercise of the mandate. But Mr President, this is the subject of consolidating reforms in justice. The first point is obviously — and curiously, it did not leave time or, eventually, it could even respond in the remaining time — to know how reforms are consolidated when reforms are made against all judicial operators. You will, of course, have a chance to make a statement about that. But by making the laudatory speech and recalling, even, the analysis of reports of international entities when they do not have any support in official numbers—and I remember that one of the major problems is the Directorate-General for Justice Policy, in the quarterly evaluations it makes, and the last one, updated at the end of 2015, says that it is impossible to make the assessment since the crash of Citius, and therefore did not have the data of 2014 - 2015 — in making an assessment and, even more laudatory, to Mr. And, Mr President, I should like to tell you that I cannot help but criticize you when you said that criticism comes only from political actors, and I assume that not at a moment of total irreflexion will you want to include in the number of political actors the President of the Supreme Court of Justice who, in relation to the amendments made on justice, refers, and already referred to it in the second part of the year 2015, that Citius does not currently provide any reliable data, which makes the system unreliable. The honourable Member is exactly starting from a brutal logical leap and concludes exactly the opposite. But nothing better than to mention the President of the Trade Union Association of Portuguese Judges who also at the end of 2015 said: « Almost one year after the new reform it is unacceptable that the Minister of Justice...», then the Minister of Justice, "... insists that everything is all right. (...) It is very worrying not to know anything. The system is not reliable and can crash again at any time». Therefore, Mr Deputies, as you see, the evocation of a report, would say someone, made 'to see', does not exactly correspond to the negative assessment that all judicial operators make of the outcome and legacy of the XIX Government. I shall conclude by exalting and expressing confidence that the serenity, weighting, the proficiency of the Minister of Justice, now present, will return peace to the sector, a condition indispensable for the continuation of the reforms we are pursuing. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u35	Mr Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Talking about justice today, in 2016, is very different than talking about justice in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u37	Because it's worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u38	It's a lot better, Mr. Member, you'll see, the numbers don't lie to me. Facts are facts, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u39	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u40	over the past four years, in the face of a scenario in which Portugal was the country of the European Union with the greatest number of days for the completion of a judicial process, which presented greater risks in terms of payments, or one of the greatest numbers of expectations — that does not matter at all, we already know! — the PSD and CDS government has initiated a broad reform which in 2016 begins to be known and recognised. If it is still early to assess the reform as a whole, there are already very positive results and which were brought to the public yesterday. The IMF report highlights several of the reforms that have been made, which must be proud of Portugal. If it is not decisive, we already know, it is gratifying to see an international institution value our work and our effort. I stress, in addition to the reform of the judicial map, the changes made in the civil process, in the executive process or in the penhoras and in the insolvencys. Today, unlike what happened in 2011, almost 50 % of the execution expectations are resolved. The resolution rate for the cases has always been higher than 100 %, which means, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, more cases are concluded than those entered into (it is a historic landmark in justice ). And, no less important than what happened before, instead of the approximately 1500 days that it took to complete a process, today we have an average that varies between 500 and 1000 days—it is quite different from what happened before. This is swifter justice, simpler justice, closer to citizens and, above all, a justice that brings more confidence and security to the citizens. This is what we talk about, of confidence and security, and this is what you always forget. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u41	While not forgetting the precious collaboration of all judicial officers, without which these results would obviously not be possible, the truth is that this is due to the former Government. And this is inexhaustible, sirs. Members — contrary to the facts, I have already told you, there are no arguments. Speed and legal certainty are the cornerstone of justice not only for citizens but also for businesses. One of the biggest obstacles to investment has always remained in justice, and that is why we can proudly say today that these constraints are seen by investors as well smaller than some years ago. No investment, no job. And without good justice, there is no investment. And so there's unemployment. That's why we fought, and that's what we did. That is why we would continue to fight and it is here, Minister, that it is important to put the point. What does the PS Government want to do in this area? Do you intend to undo everything we've done? Will you quickly undo the judicial map, as you have already done with the judgments in summary proceedings, all the more so that there was an opening of this bench to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u42	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u43	It's just that, Mrs. Minister, when we said that we were going to return the overtax gradually, the PS came running to deceive each other. When we said that holidays should be gradually restored, the PS rests all, right now, now! When we kept the holidays that exist for Europe outside, the PS gives more. The 4th exam. Is the year a mess? The PS ends up with him and now also with the 6th. year. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Is English important? The PS gives English no test. Does TAP have a Lusophone Buyer? The PS makes the state pay for everything. Everything that recommends gradualism, the PS changes in a hurry. Everything that involves effort, the PS swaps for ease. Now, everything's easy. The problem will continue within moments when the bill arrives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u44	The question that is legitimately imposed is this: will the PS undo the judicial map, as read in its Government Programme, or will make adjustments, as previously said by the Minister and still today, the Secretary of State for Justice? And what adjustments are those? Will they be adjustments to undo it? To evaluate for everything that has come to be done, and since we have not yet heard anything about it, it seems so. A reform needs time, serenity and continuity. Undoing the reform means going back and means insecurity, mistrust, investment and, on the limit, unemployment. Is that where the PS goes again, undoing everything we've done? We're waiting, Minister. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u45	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u46	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u47	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u48	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u49	Mr. President, the government has time, it has 6 minutes to intervene. Mrs. Minister is here. And what the PSD Parliamentary Group would like to know is whether the Minister will use the floor or not to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u50	Only the Government, the Minister or the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs may respond. Surely they will all use their time. The time to do it is the one the benches choose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u51	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u52	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u53	Mr President, the Minister will obviously make her speech. And you can do it right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u54	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Justice, whose presence here I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, my respects. I want you to know that it is a great honor for me to address VV. Ex., in this room, in the House of Democracy. I also want to tell you that, apart from the honour and duty that it is for me to come here to Parliament, I will always be very pleased to be here, for this and for other debates, because I believe that this space is a unique space and is the ideal space for debates and for the consensus that justice is so accurate. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] I am 36 years old at the service of justice and some years of public life in this service. The people who know me know that I cannot but say here and now that I will come to Parliament with great pleasure, whenever they call me here. Really, I'll be happy to argue with you guys. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, you will not, under any circumstances, see me make empty statements in the public space or flood the public space with spurious declarations. The place for the discussions is this. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, as it could not fail to be, will respect — and, in the part to which the Ministry of Justice is responsible, will do so — all the commitments made by the Portuguese State, because it was the Portuguese State that took them, and that, in the area of justice, are more compromises of result than commitments of means. Then I also want to say that this government has a justice programme, which is a public programme, which everyone knows and is being executed a month ago. So I remember that the government started a month ago. in the implementation of the Government Programme, it is clear that we must not fail to take into account a set of measures taken by previous governments, and here it is also important to make a statement, which is this: the Ministry of Justice will not have any good that has been done by previous governments, but considers that it has conditions and has an obligation to do more and better,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...there, in all those spaces where there is lack of action. That's my assumption of action. The judicial reform undertaken in recent years has been based on four fundamental axes. First of all, the amendment of the judicial map, as you know, with the updating of the territory, following, in fact, a line which has been practised by several European congenres—and I must recall that the amendment of the judicial map already contained the 2006 Justice Pact, so it is not quite a novelty. In addition, with regard to reforms, it also pointed to a logic of management of the various districts. And finally, there was a set of measures that had to do with two problems that had long been diagnosed and that did not find a solution. The first problem is that of procedural speed. And obviously, associated with this problem, there is the problem of excessive penance. It is obvious that the Ministry of Justice will now be involved in the judicial map, yes, and will revisit the judicial map. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] Why? Because I think that whoever did the map (and I, at the time, worked in the area) has to be aware that the map was made according to certain assumptions and following certain rules, that in some cases worked, but that in others it does not work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u57	The problems identified here are real problems. So you have to go to meet these problems to try to solve them, you have to do that. But there is no problem of discontinuity here with regard to what has been done well. Ask me: will the Civil Procedure Code be dismantled? They'll forgive me, but I think the question would be fired. Ask me: will the Code of Procedure be dismantled in the Administrative Tribunals? I say, no! And I say 'no' with consciousness. And you know why? Because when I started my duties, I was about to enter into force the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals and I just checked that there were regulatory issues and operational issues that were not developed. There were two alternatives: the first was to suspend the entry into force and create an alarm in the sector; and the second was to keep the entry into force and gradually create the conditions—and that is what we are doing. That is to say, we are creating conditions there, but we are also creating conditions for the next reports, of this or other entities, to be reliable. It is that what has been said here is also true: at this moment we still have a problem of stabilisation of Citius data. And creating security, as far as the computer system of justice is concerned, is crucial to us and is crucial to Portugal. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u58	Mr Peixoto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u59	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: I think it was clear at the end of the speeches before me that all the left and now the right, Mrs Minister, have a little bit of what was the IMF report.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u60	Do you think so? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u61	They've devalued him. We may like very little, or nothing, from the IMF, but one thing we can be sure of: it wasn't the PSD that brought the IMF to Portugal, two or three years ago, more than 10 years ago, and 20 years ago, that is, three consecutive times—it wasn't the PSD! So if it is true that, when you called the IMF, you listened carefully to what that entity had to say, it is not right now to come here to defend that this same entity no longer has credibility to present the numbers it presented. Mr. Minister, no one has asked you for frank or misleading statements, just asked you for statements, taking a position on a report produced by the IMF, on several statements by various European Union ambassadors, namely Commissioner Viviane Reding, who have praised the reforms of justice in the past four years. And what is worse is that we are restricting justice reforms only to the question of the judicial map. It is important, no doubt, but the reforms of justice, as the Minister well knows and we all know, go far beyond that. And all the data we have tell us that the situation in 2011 was not chaotic but very bad in the European picture of justice, and now we have risen several degrees in this picture. It has already been said here, and it is true that we were behind Cyprus, Latvia, Estonia, Greece, in the average duration of resolution of a judicial conflict, whether commercially, civil or administratively. Now, we're way ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u62	Citius has removed the processes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u63	It took about 1,000 days to solve a process; now we are between 500 and 800 days. Mr. João Oliveira talks about the crash of Citius.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u64	Citius has disappeared thousands of processes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u65	But the crash of Citius lasted about 30 days. [[PCP laughter.]] And the collapse of the judicial system, in the time of the Socialist Party government, lasted 10 years. It's been 10 years. This is the difference between one crash and the other crash. [[PSD applause.]] Madam Minister, don't hurt yourself, but, even because you still have time, you have to tell clearly what you think about this IMF report, whether or not those compliments are deserved. And now, Mrs Minister, you have to tell us a little bit more than what you have said, because saying that it will "visit the judicial map" is, with all due respect, very little is short. You have to say what you're going to do about the judicial map. I have already said that he also boasted and praised the reform of the executive action. What about the others? The criminal case and the Criminal Code? What about the Code of Administrative Procedure? What about the pre-executive procedure? What about the implementing agents, the executive procedure? All these were matters that took a long time to be treated and now, about a year ago, the former Government has completely completed. Mr. Minister, the question I put to you is this: the PSD and the CDS have shown that, being the Socialist Party in the Government, with an absolute majority, in 2006 and 2007 agreed to make a justice pact. I do not know whether the Socialist Party will now count on the PSD to continue the measures and reforms that have been made over the past four years. I would be grateful if you would answer these specific questions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u66	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the very short time available to me, I would like to stress the following: between a report already invoked and the evidence of the absence of the statistics of justice, which were published regularly every quarter, and which have not been known since 2014, it is quite clear, Mrs. Members, that something too serious has happened in the system of administration of justice for more than a year ago, not to be known the statistics of the procedural movement of justice in Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, if there is a view that the failure of a policy is demonstrated by the previous government, at the end of its term of office, has failed to present an objective balance sheet, the results of any work that it has done during the process of its governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u68	Mr President, you must conclude, because you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u69	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to stress with all emphasis the complete contrast of the attitude of the current Minister of Justice in relation to the style in which justice has been governed over the past four years in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u70	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u71	on the one hand, there is the sense of State responsibility, the sense of availability of dialogue, the sense of commitment. on the other hand, there is arrogance, which unfortunately remains in this initiative which, if for anything served, was to demonstrate that the PSD has not yet learned anything from its bad examples! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u72	Mr Peixoto has the floor for an intervention, which must certainly be very quick.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u73	Mr. President, it is very short. I just wanted to inform Mr. Jorge Lacão that the data of justice are all on a computer platform, being on the website since November 2015. Now, Mr Deputy, regarding the style of governance of the PSD and the CDS-PP in recent years, that Mr Deputy spoke, it was good to compare it with the style that PS has had in recent years and with the style that PS and CDS had at the time when you had an absolute majority, in which we, PSD, always available to make a justice pact. What you have done in the last four years, with the PSD and the CDS-PP as an absolute majority, has been to say to everything that is not, permanently not, in an attitude of denial and always of absolute contradiction! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u74	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u75	Mr President, in the short time that we still have, I would like to point out the following: if this debate has been worth something to listen to Mr. Carlos Peixato, on behalf of the PSD, to recognize that there has been a crash on the Citius portal. [[PCP and PS applause.]] It's been a good time because it's the first time. However, Mr President, see there, Mrs Teixeira da Cruz still demands public apology and marks a deadline for apologizing until the end of the session. The honourable Member has come to say that the crash of Citius was 30 days. Mr President, this is like the IMF numbers: everyone knows it was much more than 30 days, it was several months, and with very serious consequences for the judicial system. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u76	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in addition to Mr Peixoto's recognition of the Citius crash, it is very natural that, soon, Ms. Christine Lagarde will come to recognize, for the last time, that she has also been wrong here and that she therefore apologizes. I believe, essentially, that in the area of justice, the country now faces three major challenges to respond to three major deficits in favour of a strengthened democratic rule of law. The first is the proximity deficit. It is imperative to evaluate the merits and demerits of the judicial map and it is imperative to correct so many situations of practical denial of access to justice to vast populations, by means of distance, the emptying of some courts and the overcongestion of other courts. The second deficit is that of humanity. The prison system and the execution of sentences is, we know, overcrowded mainly by the poor, and therefore must face the challenge of modernising and qualifying the network of prisons and educational centres. Thirdly, we need to face the lack of democracy, because it is necessary to put the guarantee of effective access to justice for all and for all to the public good, and that is the challenge of reviewing judicial support policies, removing many obstacles to judicial support. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on the side of the Left Block, I would like to tell you that we are making these challenges and we are making our commitment to fight for answers that make the right of everyone and everyone concrete to justice that is fair and that, to be it, it is democratic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u78	The Minister for Justice has also signed up to intervene. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things about the question which has been made to me and which I do not want to fail to answer. I was invited to integrate a government and implement a Government Programme. With all due respect, I have not been invited nor am I in the Government to assess the performance of the previous Executive. So don't ask me to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I know him, because I've been working in the sector for 36 years. I would also like to say that I want a lot, I would like to see that these results are true, that they are correct, because it is good for justice. But let's be serious... [["Let's be serious"?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u80	When I say 'we are serious', I mean myself. As I said, the report is a working paper that expressly says that the IMF working papers refer to ongoing research by the authors and that they are published to wake up comments and to encourage the debate. I shall therefore examine this document. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u81	Having concluded this first item on the agenda, we are generally discussing the proposal for a law No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Income Tax Code for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, transposing Council Directive 2015 / 121 / EU of 27 January 2015 amending Council Directive 2011 / 96 / EU of 30 November 2011 on the common tax system applicable to parent companies and affiliated companies of different Member States. For an intervention, as soon as there is some quiet in the Chamber, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs will have the floor, which I take advantage of to greet. We will wait a few seconds to continue the debate. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: The bill that the Government submits today to the Assembly of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u83	I am sorry, Mr Secretary of State, but there are still no conditions for Mr. Secretary of State to intervene. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to get out if they want to. If you don't want to leave, I ask you to sit down, including the ladies. Members on their backs to the Bureau. As long as there's Srs. Members behind the Bureau will not continue the debate. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today submits a bill transposing to the Portuguese legal order Directive 2015 / 121 / EU, which in turn amends Directive 2011 / 96 / EU, which is, as we know, the directive regulating various aspects of the taxation of parent companies and affiliates. This 2011 Directive, among other aspects, provides for a tax system in which there is no taxation of profits paid by a company participating in another company which has the participation and which is in another country of the European Union. Of course, the existence of this tax scheme results in an incentive for companies making payments to other companies abroad to be placed under the scheme of this Directive and thus benefit from the exemption. Thus, there has been evidence of the emergence of aggressive tax planning schemes in which profits generated in a country are transferred to a company in a foreign country without that transfer being based on a relationship with economic substance, but which through this operation benefits the payment of the exemption from taxation at source. The proposed scheme transposes the solution in the Directive, which consists mainly of the introduction into the IRC Code of a specific anti-abuse clause, which allows the exemption from taxation of profits at source when these profits are distributed abroad and there are no valid economic reasons for that operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u86	when presenting this bill, it was also an option of the Government that the same regime as the Directive made binding on relations between Portuguese and foreign-resident companies would also be applied when payment is made between two companies within our country. We therefore believe that the anti-abuse clause will enable the Tax Administration to provide a mechanism to combat these aggressive tax planning practices more effectively. As we think it is an initiative arising from a directive of the European Union, this is an example that illustrates how European construction also results from mechanisms that enable us to combat the opportunities for international tax planning that European integration itself, by its nature, also opens up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u87	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I begin by welcoming the presence of Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, since it is his first intervention in this incarnation of the Ministry of Finance. I would therefore like to take account of the enormous satisfaction, personal pleasure and, because you do not say so, of the friendship which I have nurtured by the Secretary of State for many years, wishing you the greatest happiness in the performance of your duties. Today we are debating the transposition of Directive 2015 / 121 / EU, as Mr. Secretary for Tax Affairs pointed out, commonly known as the « Directive mothers and daughters ». However, this sympathetic, feminine and family resonance quickly breaks down in the aridity of tax rules, because, as the Secretary of State had the opportunity to explain, of mothers we speak of societies-mothers and daughters we speak of societies affiliated with a transnational nature. This little note, as the Secretary of State has well mentioned, we would like to point out that what matters — and we welcome the legislative proposal, in so far as it nevertheless complies with what we are bound to — is that one more step has been taken against abusive tax planning. It is true that in our planning we have already had general anti-abuse clauses, but in so far as we are specifically going to empower the Tributary Authority to amend Articles 14. is 51. that of the IRC Tax Code, we will allow, as I said, to take a step that is correct. We were bound to do so by the end of 2015, so the government promptly submitted this bill and we this week will give the final expected formality for this matter. I conclude, Mr Secretary of State, almost quoting the opinion of the Regional Government of the Azores, which, on this matter, synthetically but perfectly effective, says that, in the context of the transposition of a directive, and in the manner in which it does so, there is no obstacle to this amendment being made. With the help of the Latin booklet, we have already expressed our wish, and we will therefore vote in favour of this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u89	Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We are debating today in this House a Community directive and on the subject at stake. Obviously, this is the mechanical transposition of this same Directive. This is, above all, an opportunity to talk about IRC and its recent history. And to talk about the recent history of IRC is to talk about the agreement that this House reached in 2013 and that is now not fulfilled by the PS ; it is to talk about what the PS has undertaken to do in terms of the regime pact and which now does not comply. That is, the PS once again is not a word, and with it it affects the confidence and credibility of the Portuguese state abroad. It is before these ziguezags of their inconsistencies and fragility, based on a very tremulous parliamentary agreement, that external and internal investors look with fear, fear and doubt to Portugal. In 2013, a decrease in IRC from 23 % to 2014 was agreed, from 21 % to 2015, and an interval from 17 % to 19 % by 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u91	The deal wasn't right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u92	The PS and the government do not want to believe in the PSD's word on this question of trust, which has taken a long time to win - it has taken four years to challenge the image and confidence of Portugal externally! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Just look at the latest INE data. The latest INE data on the consumer confidence indicator and the economic climate show taxively that after October had stabilized at the highest value since April 2001 the consumer confidence indicator decreased in November and decreased again in December. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to PS not meeting and not wanting to lower IRC rates. Mr Filipe Neto Brandão spoke of the Regional Government of the Azores. Well, that's what we're gonna talk about. The honorary President of the PS / Azores, Carlos César, who is also the president of the PS Parliamentary Group, and who is present here, has not influenced the Regional Azores Government to use all the IRC descent in the Azores. In other words, it did not use what was possible for this House to give in the 2015 Budget, which was an enabling standard to make maximum use of the tax reduction of IRC. Don't! in the Azores, companies pay more because the PS did not want to fall the IRC rate, and much because of the honorary president Carlos César. This is the situation we're used to, where the PS governs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u93	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u94	I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that with this parliamentary regime that there is a fragile agreement, with these zigzags and with these doubts—at present, investors, people, companies are questioning what the next unpredictability of this government will be and what will be the next step in the inconsistencies of this agreement, which is trapped by spider webs—the external confidence is affected by the way and by the responsibility of the PS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u95	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: PSD Member Antonio Ventura has just said that this debate is an opportunity to talk about IRC. So let's talk about IRC. The former PSD/CDS government carried out an IRC reform that would allegedly be the key to a supposed virtuous cycle of economic growth and investment, when it was in fact only intended to create better conditions for large companies and economic groups to pay even less taxes. In other words, the reform of IRC was an important element of the right-wing policy on the confiscation of workers' incomes and rights to guarantee the privileges of large capital. The proposal of the previous PSD/CDS Government to amend the IRC Code was preceded by an intense campaign to manipulate public opinion, with the aim of preparing ground for a sharp reduction in the IRC paid by large companies in the following years, while the difficulties of micro and small enterprises were aggravated and there was an unqualifiable tax draw on work income within IRS. He tried to spread the idea that large companies were already paying a lot of taxes. in reality, the tax actually paid by large companies is well below that which would result from the application of the nominal rate and the state rate due to the existence of multiple and varied instruments of aggressive tax planning and tax benefits. For example, in 2011, according to data from the Tax and Customs Authority, for the 140 largest Portuguese companies that presented around EUR 7500 million of profits in that year, the effective IRC rate was only 11, 5 %, well below the IRS rate of a low-income worker. In addition to the reduction in the nominal rate of IRC, which the former PSD/CDS Government intended to lead to up to 17 % yesterday, other ways were introduced into the IRC Code to further reduce the effective tax rates applied to large companies and economic groups: the extension of the period to report losses; the exemption from taxation of dividends obtained abroad or sent abroad; the extension of the possibility of consolidation of tax losses of the companies involved in economic groups; and the consolidation of profits and tax losses in mergers, acquisitions and divisions. With these new tools placed at your disposal by the former PSD/CDS Government, large companies, economic and financial groups, social equity managers and large finance companies have significantly reduced their taxes. Today, we are debating a government proposal to limit the exemption from taxation of income sent abroad and received by companies involved in situations corresponding to aggressive tax planning. This is a positive measure, which we will follow, but clearly insufficient in the general framework of the reduced taxes paid by large businesses and by the economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u97	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u98	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is necessary to carry out a genuine tax reform in Portugal, a reform that adequately taxes large economic and financial groups and at the same time relieves the tax burden on workers'incomes, the consumption of families and the activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, a tax reform that promotes a fairer distribution and distribution of national wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u99	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u100	Mr. President, let me finish with one last note. The legislative initiative currently under discussion presents a fragility of imputation with regard to the definition of non-genuine construction intended to obtain a tax advantage. Such fragility shall not cease to be used by large companies and economic groups to circumvent this legislation. This is a problem that needs to be seen in the specialty. Mr. President, I appreciate your tolerance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u101	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: At the time of the debate of the State budget for 2016, we will have the opportunity to discuss the government's fiscal policy, particularly within IRC. Therefore, I think that in the discussion on the transposition of a directive we excuse being deepening this debate until what is at stake — we are talking about Directive 2011/96/EU — is the Directive which has as its fundamental principle to avoid double taxation. A directive that avoids double taxation must, of course, be updated so that aggressive tax planning does not benefit from the holes found in this legislation in order to obtain advantages that are considered to be undue. We know that this happened differently in the different Member States and Portugal was not one of the countries considered problematic and that it justified the revision of the Directive — it is important that we have this notion. There were Member States which were considered problematic because they did not have anti-abuse standards, but that was not the case with Portugal, which already has an anti-abuse standard in this regard. It happens that we should not, in this transposition of the Directive, allow it to be completely arbitrary and that it is the tax administration to measure what is essential. What is at stake is not just an option for a company to charge the activity of a parent company or a daughter company based in one country or another. Its activity has to do with the relationship between this imputation and the effective reason for the economic point of view that generates this activity. So what we have to be able to do in transposition—and I think it was important to see this in the specialty—is that the text of the law is as objective as possible so that then there are no situations of conflict from a juridical point of view in which it is not understood whether effectively what the law wants to avoid certain situations or just avoid another type of situation. We must be aware that the tax regime at company level, from a European point of view, is not a common tax regime and therefore there will always be competition until there is harmonisation of tax policy. And a Member State like Portugal probably should not defend this harmonisation, because fiscal competitiveness can be a good instrument for attracting investment. in this sense, what we have to achieve with the law, and this is important to debate in the specialty, is that the text is objective and does not leave room for dubious interpretation to the tax administration. The CDS will vote in favour of and commit to CL in particular in order to contribute to this transparency and to this objective. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u103	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it is undeniable that this bill constitutes an improvement in relation to the legal framework that had previously been in force. What it tells us is that, in cases where a structure of a set of companies has been constituted for tax planning reasons, no exemptions apply to the transfer of profits or the transfer of reserves between undertakings. There are two issues here that I think are important to discuss. The first is that this is a timely change in a set of legislation that is made exactly to promote tax engineering. The entire system of protection of GSPS, societies managing social participations, all double taxation agreements or even speaking in the RRRTs (exceptional tax regulation regimes), which are tax amnesties made legally and usually at very interesting times in time... For example, the former Government made a double taxation agreement with Switzerland, which involved exchange of tax information, but before that, allowed taxpayers who had fled to the taxes to return their money from Switzerland, paying much less taxes and being exempt from any legal consequences through a RRRT. Therefore, the legal framework is designed to protect tax planning, it is designed to protect tax escape. And this is my first question: this is a one-time change in the framework which is not its principle and that is not what it defends. The second question concerns the applicability of the principle that the construction of a society should be done on economic and not tax grounds. The law is clear when it defines that an exemption from profits is not applicable when there is a construction or a series of buildings that have been made for the main purpose or for one of the main purposes of obtaining a tax advantage that benefits the object and purpose of eliminating double taxation and that this construction is not considered genuine on economic grounds. My question is: What is the economic reason for Jerome Martins to have a society in the Netherlands? What is the economic reason for Galp to have a society in the Netherlands? What is the economic reason for EDP to have a society in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u106	What is the economic reason Sonae has a society in the Netherlands? Or to the Brisa, to the Cimpor, to the Mota-Engil, to the Semapa, to the Portucel, to Portugal Telecom, to the BCP or to the ZON have companies in the Netherlands? It is almost all the companies of the PSI 20, which have no economic activity in the Netherlands, but which have a company there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u107	This or other laws aimed at the same objective—is that it is important to realize — will it or will it not allow Jerome Martins to transfer losses or profits to the Netherlands, with a view to paying less taxes in Portugal? We do not want to know only what comes formally into the law; we want to know how the law is applied and whether the final objective, which is fiscal equity between large and small companies, between large and small taxpayers, is or is not achieved with these changes of law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u108	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Above all, I would like to refer to the questions raised by Mr Paulo Sá and Mr João Piinho de Almeida on the implementation of the concept in the bill. I draw attention to the following: an anti-abuse clause is by nature a clause that has to be opened, and Portugal already has an anti-abuse clause. Therefore, we are introducing a specific anti-abuse clause in these two IRC standards to make it more effective. If we limit, by excessive complexity or definition, the scope of this anti-abuse clause, what will eventually happen is that we will make the fight against planning less effective than would result from the mere application of the general anti-abuse clause. You need to be careful. Secondly, and explaining the legislative option of the Government, the almost textual transposition of the text of the directive allows uniformity in fulfilling the concept in Community terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u110	Mr. Secretary of State, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u111	Therefore, it allows interpretative elements in all countries to be used in the same way, filling out, clearly, the concept. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u112	With no further inscriptions on this agenda item, we move on to the next item. But prior to that, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will make some ad files. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, bills n.o.s 90 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establish the obligation of banking institutions to fully reflect Euribor's decline in credit contracts for housing and consumption ( BE ), 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation of credit institutions to provide a deposit account to the standardised order designated as « basic account », and prohibits the collection of commissions, expenditure or other charges by the services provided under that account ( CFP ) and 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revok the requalification scheme ( BE). It's all Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u114	The next item on the agenda is the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the defence of additional Community measures for dairy cattle farming ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent initiatives for the defence and sustainability of the national dairy sector following the end of the dairy quota scheme in the European Union ( BE ) and 59 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends promotion of measures to defend national milk production ( CFP ). Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 31 March, the mechanism for administrative limitation of the production of bovine milk in the European Union was completed, which was used to eliminate excesses. There are, in conjunction with this provision, several factors that are causing a decline in the income of milk producers in Portugal, an income that decreases due to the decrease in milk price and the increase in the price of the main production factors. The problem lies here and assumes itself as a topic of higher interest for Portugal. It is understood that this is a problem that concerns not only milk producers, because the milk product manifests a true multifunctional dimension in Portugal, given its important social, economic and environmental role, among others. If we want it, it's one of the engines of Portugal's recovery. In addition, in general, agriculture over the past four years has boosted value added and increased exports. Therefore, we are saying that milk production is a public good and that, like any common good, it must have the proper commitment as it has so far had with the Government of the PSD and the CDS / PP and that it has been interrupted in this House. It is a fact that the disappearance of milk quotas is contributing to the increase in milk production in some Member States, involving more supply without the equivalent demand. Similarly, global political circumstances, such as the Russian embargo and the trade behaviour of China in this sector, have negatively altered markets. This means that this issue, without undermining domestic policy—as I have already said, has been blocked by the PS's will to have power—it has a lot of global policy and also requires action in the European Union and the European Union. And it is following the good work that has been done by the Government elected by the Portuguese that emerges this resolution of the PSD and the CDS/PP with the aim of continuing the political effort with the European Commission for the existence of intervention instruments, in order to compensate the income of producers and also of mechanisms for regulating supply. It is also recognized that the dairy quota system has been advantageous for peripheral countries, such as Portugal, and for disadvantaged and ultraperipheral regions with permanent geographical conditionalities. I am talking here, in particular, about the Azores as an outermost region, where this problem is exacerbated in such a way that the sector is « connected to machines». It is important to reiterate that the quota scheme is a public supply control policy mechanism, which, in essence, makes it possible to ensure equity between producers, between Member States, and is also a cohesion mechanism for the outermost regions. But, unfortunately, Portugal has not always been in defense of this equity and cohesion and the past directly bears responsibility for the PS in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u116	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation we live in in the milk sector is extremely serious. The end of the dairy quota scheme in the European Union, which for about 30 years has allowed some balance between supply and demand and also between the productions of the various Member States, is causing chaos in the sector, with great damage to the Portuguese producers. Commissioner Phil Hogan, when milk quotas were finished, clearly said that for the first time in more than 30 years it would be the market forces to determine the quantity of milk produced in Europe, which shows that this situation at the end of milk quotas has an ideological line that leads precisely to the destruction of the milk sector in Portugal and the chaos of this sector in Europe. In Portugal, the price of milk paid for production will have fallen about 16 % in the last year and over the past few months has been constantly falling. Indeed, this problem of falling the price of milk paid for production is decisive and the previous government has not been able to solve it nor, in our view, had much interest in resolving it. As has been usual for several years in our country, it has always been the production to pay the price of the milk sector crisis. That is precisely why it was inevitable and strategic that regulatory mechanisms could be built at European level. It is essential that in Europe we continue to work towards requiring regulatory mechanisms for the milk sector, and it is also essential that there is a fairer distribution of value added across the value chain of the sector in Portugal. And that's not what's happening. The crisis that is living cannot continue to be paid for by them. Industry and large distribution must participate in these difficulties, competing with the government to work in this direction. It must be said that the seriousness of the situation with regard to the end of the milk quotas in the European Union has determined that, after the end of these quotas, in the last seven months, European production has risen by 2000 million litres of milk produced, which is affecting not only the European market as well as the world market, pressing that the price of milk paid for production does not rise. In addition to all these issues, we must also say that there are currently dairy farms that are already closing or closing because of this crisis. in this sense, it is essential that, in our country, the Government seeks to create incentives for restructuring dairy farms. We do not want these producers, which, due to the crisis situation in the sector, to fail to continue their farms, to expand the quota of farmers leaving agriculture. Rapid measures are therefore required, urgent measures to support the restructuring of these dairy farms. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u118	For an intervention, you have the floor, Mr João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation of the national dairy sector is dramatic. If nothing is done, the country is at risk of being left without this productive sector. After this may be those of pig farming or poultry farming to disappear. The process of European integration, now in its version of the end of quotas, with the responsibility of successive governments, continues to destroy the productive sectors of the country. Portugal has much to lose if you run out of dairy. Twenty years ago there were 70 000 farms, today they do not reach 6000 and the country takes long steps to move from self-sufficient to large-scale import of this product. Only in 2015 will the number of dairy farms in Portugal have been reduced by 8 %. The seriousness of the situation has mobilized producers to manifest their dissatisfaction, as has already happened more significantly in Aveiro or in Póvoa Varzim. Our country does not have the capacity to compete with countries with more support, lower production costs and better edafoclimatic conditions, but this cannot justify the implementation of a modernized, organized and quality-produced sector. Allowing the dairy sector to be eliminated has social, economic and food sovereignty costs in our country and everything must be done to safeguard it. For years there have been many warnings and proposals from the CFP for the problem. Furthermore, at the end of the previous legislation, the CFP presented a draft resolution with precise recommendations, namely the need to maintain the right of the country to produce and the need to intervene with the distribution, ensuring that the constant use of milk to lower prices in Portugal is not admissible. As the impending collapse of the sector is becoming increasingly evident, today we discuss PSD and CDS resolution projects, BE and PCP. We cannot fail to refer to the sudden concern of the PSD and the CDS towards the dairy sector, because when the last PCP project was discussed these two parties voted against. It is, in fact, very interesting to see today the CDS demanding what yesterday did not make your minister Assumption Cristos! They are hardly leaving the government. They already recognize that the sector needs intervention. They are faster to demand that others do what they themselves should have done than to take the measures that have been imposed for a long time. In fact, four years have passed during which there has been some discussion, particularly the one raised by the CFP, but they have not taken the basic measures the sector needed. On the other hand, it is also not enough to hold crisis and emergency meetings; it is, indeed, essential to take concrete action. Still days ago, a meeting of the Crisis Office was promoted by the Government, where the association of large distribution would have expressed concern and willingness to help. But what did they do? What they did was to promote in all milk promotion chains to call customers to other products, as can be seen by the photographs I have here and I ask the Bureau to distribute it to the other banks and the government. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft resolution of the CFP, which we are discussing today, presents very concrete measures, namely: the need to define immediate intervention measures to deal with pressing difficulties and medium- and long-term measures in the instruments of support and financing of agricultural activity, particularly the regulations implementing the Community funds ; the need to work with European institutions to maintain a framework for regulation of production and the market at European level ; and the need to defend, within the framework of the European Council, the rise in intervention prices to ensure more rapid action by the European authorities. But as the problem arises today and as there will be at this time producers who are deciding to close their farms, it is also necessary, among other measures, to define extraordinary immediate aid within the framework of de minimis aid in European rules. Efforts are also needed to ensure that public canteens and meals contribute to the flow of national production and that effective regulation and monitoring of the speculative activity of food distribution chains are taken place, imposing limits on the use of white marks, as well as establishing sales quotas for national agri-food production. The defense of national production is imperative for the future of the country. It is necessary to begin immediately and quickly to save the national dairy sector from collapse. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u120	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u121	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The NAP does not follow the initiatives now under discussion. The eating habits of Portuguese have changed and the number of people who have stopped drinking cow's milk has increased considerably in recent years, following the many and varied medical and scientific information that comes to say and consciously that, after all, milk is not a superfood, on the contrary. This was a myth that, during the 20th century, was led by the marketing industry to the service of the dairy and that continues to be validated by the state. On the other hand, and contrary to what is stated in draft resolution No 18/ XIII ( 1 ). a ), the dairy sector is of the activities that most contribute to global warming potentials, representing about 6 % of total national greenhouse gas emissions — and I can demonstrate - with accounts - in addition to the phenomena of water, groundwater and surface pollution, soil erosion and eutrophication of ecosystems. The concern and focus of the NAP are linked to the sustainability of small producers, with those who need a license to survive. For these, the NAP argues that real aid must be sought and applied to diversify or convert its activity, instead of continuing to waste money on the perpetuation of a structural problem, which is the fruit of other times and which tends to worsen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u122	For an intervention, Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The milk sector is of fundamental importance both in contributing to the national economy and to territorial cohesion. This was one of the most transformed, innovated, organized and modernized sectors in the last 20 years; however, it is going through severe difficulties. The embargo on the sale of milk products to Russia, the withdrawal of consumption as well as imports from China, allied to the end of milk quotas, have had a strong impact on the price of milk paid to producers. This has been successively below the European Union average, recording values in the order of 25 cents/ litre when estimated requirements in the order of 40 cents/litre to ensure the viability of farms. Thus it is not possible to see development for the sector. To continue to protect this scenario as if it were not happening is to maintain obvious negative consequences on our farms, on the supply of markets and on their development. thus, regions such as the north, the coastal center and the Azores will not be able to endure much longer. The European Union seems to be aware of the problem, but it finds it difficult to act in correcting asymmetries to avoid it. It is therefore necessary to take measures, even if they are already delayed, to strengthen this sector of production, such measures that mitigate the impact of market liberalisation and the end of milk quotas. Today, we live in Portugal a new time, a time of recovery of family income, of stimulus to the economy and the exit of austerity, which has also suffocated our productive sector. in this context, in view of the draft resolutions under consideration and considering the commitments made in these matters by the Socialist Party, we could not fail to record positively the proposals submitted that could meet the concentration of efforts to safeguard the income of milk producers, without forgetting the contribution regime, the restructuring of agricultural holdings, including the rejuvenation of the sector and the aid to the disposal of dairy products. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential that the current Government should follow up on initiatives already taken, such as the actions of the Minister of Agriculture with European Commissioner Phil Hogan on 14 December, alerting the failure of the measures taken at European level and the need for new measures to be planned in relation to the intervention price and exceptional support intended to compensate for the loss of income of national producers, or as a result of the recently created Cabinet of Crisis, which has already met on 22 December to discuss joint solutions between producers and distributors, with the aim of working the variables of price formation along the value chain, integrating the different partners of the sector, or as the creation of the sub-thematic milk programme already in preparation under the second pillar of the Common Agricultural Policy. It's time for action. Boviniculture and the milk sector need because it's getting late. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u124	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I could not fail to welcome, especially, the dairy farmers in this country who, over the last few years, have known how to adapt to the market, adapt to technologies, adapt to the demands of hygiene and food safety and have been able to produce more and better. For about 30 years, as has already been mentioned, at European level — and we are talking about a common European policy — there have been production quotas and milk import quotas. These quotas ended last year and with the end of them the Portuguese Government of then, although it had always opposed the decision of the end of the milk quota regime, it could do nothing but accept European guidance and decision. However, the Government of then took concrete measures to minimize the negative impact that the end of the quotas had because we knew that it would have, and from then on, before they were finished, decided to support milk producers at 82 € per cow producing each milk producer in Portugal. This support for milk producers was then supplemented by negotiations at the European Union level, with an additional EUR 4, EUR 8 million, corresponding to the year 2015 and which was almost totally liquidated on 30 October and 30 December, i.e. an execution of around 95 %. So, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Soares and Mr João Ramos, it is not true that nothing has been done. In this regard, these were the measures taken to apply in 2015. Thus, the concern of the CDS and the PSD is not today and what we have now seen is that, after the year 2015, it is necessary to urge the European Union to take new measures so that these problems identified not only by VV are minimized. Ex. but also by Mr. João Castro of the Socialist Party. It is therefore necessary to take measures and what we propose at European and national level are those contained in our draft resolution and which aim to implement intervention instruments in order to compensate for the loss of income, which has occurred, and to take additional preventive and crisis measures. These are the measures we call on the Government to take with the European Union. On the other hand, the measures that have been taken so far, Mr. João Castro, have been positive, we will not say no, but they are very few. Note: The Crisis Office meets with production and distribution, but — and that is necessary to say — it must also meet with industry. It is because industry plays an important role here and, although it is linked to production, it has its own life, so it also needs to be brought together. Moreover, it was established by the previous government by the PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ), which allowed all sectors involved — distribution, industry and production — to establish self-regulation criteria. Milk production in Portugal is not just the issue of milk production. Milk production in Portugal is fundamental for farmers, it is fundamental for the population and, contrary to what has already been mentioned, milk is responsible for why many thousands of people do not die of hunger in the world, and that is fundamental. The continuation of dairy production in Portugal is fundamental, because it represents not only a rural development factor, a rural employability factor, as well as the maintenance of the landscape, the environmental balance, which otherwise is lost. This is also to be referred to and farmers cannot be the only ones to be penalized by political measures that have been taken. The world economy has its responsibility, which has been mentioned here, and very well not only by the Russian embargo as well as by the reduction of consumption in China, but it is necessary to maintain a balanced production and this balance must be maintained because it is not only the countries that have the most favourable production conditions that can produce milk, Portugal has the right and must demand it from the European Union. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u126	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The dairy sector has long claimed measures for its defence and its sustainability, but today, in view of the reality of the sector, more than defence and sustainability, what is really about measures for the survival of the dairy sector in our country. It is true that the fragility of our dairy sector is not now, it is not today, but it is a problem that has worsened, above all, with Portugal entering the European Union and that it has ended up causing an alarming reduction in the number of dairy farms, which, in fact, continues to occur today. But the worst for the dairy sector would come later. It would, on the one hand, be the reform of the CAP, which last year and which has seriously compromised the future of milk producers in our country, and, on the other hand, the end of the milk quotas, which only came to respond to the pressures of the large milk-producing countries, but penalizing substantially such countries as Portugal, which, in fact, continues with the price of production below the European average. As a result of the low production prices, what we had was a sharp increase in the income of farmers, especially small and medium-sized producers, who eventually had no other way out than the abandonment of their activities and farms. And many of those who continue are literally indebted and in a truly distressing situation, I would even say, dramatic. It is therefore necessary to establish regulatory mechanisms to ensure our country's right to produce. However, it is also necessary to take measures which would contravene the internal market by the distribution chains, which are transformed into major embassies of imports of foodstuffs, in particular the import of milk. There is therefore a demand not only for domestic measures, which must be evaluated in dialogue with dairy organisations, but also for Community efforts. One and the other which, as a whole, enables to establish instruments capable of ensuring proper regulation of the milk market. It is necessary, for example, to ensure that canteens and public meals are taken over as protagonists of the flow of our national production, for example, to invest in monitoring and combating speculation in food distribution chains, in particular by setting limits on the use and abuse of the so-called 'white marks', because in fact it is necessary to save our dairy sector before it is late. It is in this context that the Greens will contribute to the feasibility of the legislative initiatives we are discussing, because it is also necessary to address the dramatic situation of small and medium-sized producers and also the importance that the sector represents for the survival of the rural world, so important for the country and our environment. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u128	Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say to Mr. João Ramos that it is not worth coming here to attack the PSD and the CDS, when you hide in your draft resolution what is enough, in statements by the Central Committee, to fight the PS. You have hidden in your draft resolution why, in the past, you have held the PS responsible. You have taken responsibility — and very well! — Minister Capoulas Santos, for having taken a step towards the end of the milk quotas in 1999, you have held Jaime Silva responsible for your prospects for the Central Committee, for having been Portugal's milk quotas even during the process of'mild landing' and now they hide all this in your draft resolution and refer generally to matters. That's hiding! I mean, what you guys do is protect your government partner!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u130	They've changed a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u131	They've changed a lot. What we had to see: the PCP protecting the PS and hiding the story! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u132	Mr. Deputies, that's not true. To be consistent with the past and the present, it is not because of supporting the government that must change its position. You always take what you said. Therefore, hiding is another sign that the PCP is not coherent, has no stable word, is not a word party, because it effectively changes according to the interests and changes according to the objectives, in this case to support the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u133	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u134	I'm done now, Mr. President. I would also like to tell you that already at that time the capital sin of Jaime Silva, who sold Portugal, sold the future of Portugal in this very essential issue of stability for the peripheral countries, for the autonomous regions, at that time he was President of the Regional Government of the Azores Carlos César and, by his omission, to protect the national PS, the Government of Socrates shut down and let go, placing the interests of the PS above the interests of the Azores. Therefore, My Friends, as regards history and political responsibility over the end of milk quotas, everything is said.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u135	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u137	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u138	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u139	Mr President, it is to ask for the distribution of a document which I have referred to in my speech. Certainly, the Bureau has not noticed, but it is a number of promotional photographs in the large distribution that clearly show the contribution the large distribution is making in this matter by lowering prices at the cost of production. With regard to what Mr António Ventura has said, it is not worth asking for my speech to be distributed because it is public, but I mean that it clearly answers the questions now mentioned by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u140	Mr President, please send these documents to the Bureau for distribution. Mrs. Members, having completed the third item on the agenda, we move on to the fourth point, with the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 86 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensures the impermissibility and impossibility of execution of the mortgage of the housing property itself and permanently due to tax debts ( amends the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October) ( BE), 87 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Protects the household under tax enforcement procedures ( PS ), 88 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes a system for the impermenability of the housing itself and permanent setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages ( PCP ) and 89 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspends the penhoras and sales of own and permanent housing in tax enforcement processes and determines the application of a regime for impermissibility of such buildings ( CFP ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr Paulino Ascension has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last four years have meant impoverishment for most Portuguese families. The former government, eager to go beyond the troika, has sown unemployment, has cut wages, pensions and social support, has increased taxes, has increased the cost of living and has withdrawn income available to families. These conditions, as a whole, led families to the inability to pay their debts, and this breach resulted in wages, bank balances, vehicles and buildings, including the household. The State, through tax administration, has been one of the main executioners of these penhoras, which are automatically and blindly stripped. More than 6000 families have lost their home since 2014. The worst part of the family home is the end of the line, after confiscating income and other estate. The Block has always defended that those who have already lost everything cannot see that their home is removed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u143	While enormous sacrifices fell on people to save banks, nothing was done to protect indebted families. We welcome here the workers of the taxes that were the involuntary faces of this persecution, inhuman and unjust policy and we also greet their union, which has contributed to the design of this solution that we present here. This bill only affects tax debts and aims to force the State to respect the right to housing, as enshrined in the Constitution, and aims to combat the hell that characterizes the taxpayers' relationship with tax. They are the penhoras fired when debt regularisation plans are being met, on old debts that have not been notified, relating to car taxes that no longer exist... A logic of « pay first and claim later ». All Portuguese are personally familiar with these situations, such as the reported case of the mother with three children, unemployed, whose house was penorated to settle a debt of € 1900. This action is revealing how the previous government has dealt with the fight against poverty, that is, the fight against the poor. Cases like this have coexisted and coexisted with inoperance with VIP taxpayers, tax bills to the great economic interests or the unity of large taxpayers converted into a consulting office for large companies. A state, as you wish on the right, which becomes strong in front of the fragile and submits before the powerful. We welcome the legislative process that has led us to this solution. Positively, the PS project also presents on this subject better protects taxpayers than the formulation that was present in the Government Programme. The principles that are shaped there reflect the understandings of the forces on the left, which have made it possible to implement these measures, which has long been required. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u144	To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I present a special compliment to the Union of Tax Workers, whose members contributed to the awakening of public opinion for this social drama. If, until today, it was not possible to move forward to the protection of own and permanent dwellings by tax debts was because the former PSD/CDS majority rejected the Socialist Party's proposals for three times. If the Socialist Party's proposals had been approved in February 2014, thousands of families would not have remained without their residence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u147	The austerity policy of the former PSD/CDS Government increased the number of families living below the poverty threshold. The increase in unemployment, the attack on workers' and pensioners' incomes and the blind cuts in social support — CSR and CSI — have brutally aggravated the economic situation of hundreds of thousands of Portuguese. The violent austerity policy launched by the former Government made thousands of families unable to fulfil their tax obligations. The right, PSD and CDS, was never able to view this situation as a real problem. The Court of Auditors' latest report on this matter says that 95 % of the revenue collected from the sale of own and permanent dwellings for tax debts is on the bank side and the greater cruelty of the situation is reflected in the following issue: in 2013 and 2014 the tax has sold more household houses than the number of houses delivered to banks for non-compliance. But, then, if the sale of own and permanent dwellings by the tax office does not give tax revenue, if the tax is promoting revenue to the bank and if the families that are left without their own housing are the only ones who lose with the current situation, there is only one explanation for the right to have rejected the various proposals for the protection of their own and permanent dwellings by tax debts, presented by the PS : this is called social insensitivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u149	The PS proposes a ban on the sale of own and permanent dwellings for tax debts, but the PS also proposes a balance between this measure and the State's credit rights. The permission of the penhora with a ban on the sale of its own and permanent dwellings defends the State, in particular against voluntary sale of the property. The right to housing is a constitutional right that must be protected. The rights of the State are also guarded in the draft law of the Socialist Party. PSD and CDS have an opportunity here to wash their bad conscience when they have been insensitive and inflexible in the face of a real problem in the face of a social drama. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u150	To present the draft resolutions of the CFP, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group presents two legislative initiatives aimed at responding to one of the most dramatic problems and perhaps more inhumane to the consequences of the policies carried out in this country over the past four years. We refer to situations where families lose their homes because they have been deprived of their incomes that allow them to meet their commitments in some cases with respect to commitments made by the purchase of their own housing and, in other cases, where they see their homes damaged because they have not been able to honour their commitments, as a result of dramatic situations in which they have fallen, or because of job losses, or because of insolvency of businesses, or because of various situations where people, as a result of the recessive policies that have been implemented in Portugal in recent years, have been deprived of their minimum income and have even ended up losing their homes. This is a question that we have never closed our eyes and in which we have presented various legislative initiatives in the last legislature, seeking to solve this problem and guarantee the fundamental right to housing by families. The previous majority revealed total insensitivity and not only did it not passively assist as it was an active agent so that families would lose their homes and many people were deprived of the fundamental right to housing. There are two aspects to which it is important to mention, one of which is related to tax burdens. The position which the CFP here defends on its own initiative is that there is an immediate suspension of the penhoras and sales of own housing by means of tax enforcement procedures. We understand that the State cannot, in any case, by means of tax executions, deprive families without the resources of the household. This is an unacceptable situation and, from this point of view, a perennial legislative measure should be taken on this issue. Another aspect which we believe should also be discussed is the situations in which people have their mortgaged houses at the bank and in fact have been deprived of means to meet their commitments. There, the situation will lack a different solution, but, from our point of view, solutions must be found which, whenever possible, on the other hand, allow people to honour their commitments without the need to lose their homes. Therefore, we believe that this fundamental right to housing should be seen as a fundamental human right and everything must be done to prevent these situations from occurring. We therefore consider these two legislative initiatives here, thinking that this should be the starting point for a quick solution to this problem, but we stress that there is a constant priority to one of the bills we propose, which is that there are no more homes lost through tax enforcement, that families who have their last resort are not deprived of this fundamental right and that the penhoras of houses of residence are immediately suspended, by means of tax enforcement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u152	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD is a party of principles and, in this matter, our steering arrow is the solidarity of each other, to prevent an excessive tax burden from falling on only a few, and because by maintaining the tax revenue, we protect the social functions of the State. During the past four years, we have successfully fought tax fraud, with the aim of defending all those who, by way of obedience, do not want and cannot escape the tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u154	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u155	In particular, the projects of the Left Block and the PCP are a clear incentive for non-compliance with the contractual commitments with citizens and entrepreneurs and tax evasion. In 2015 the mandatory IRS charges represented 300 million euros and these projects would clearly challenge the capacity of the State to collect this revenue and would, moreover, likely encourage greater tax evasion. The projects presented were, by way of sign, severely criticized by the suspicious Bank of the Order of Accountants, who alerted to the risk of having people, and I quote, «which eternally postpone the payment of tax debts, because they know they will never lose their house ». But it is also the principle of solidarity that makes us sensitive to situations of disproportionateness and injustice. We therefore want to promote an increasingly balanced and respectful relationship between citizens and the Tax Authority. That is why the PSD Government and the CDS intervene to resolve this situation by deciding to disable the automatic computer mechanism for the sale of houses covered by tax debts. With that decision, in 2015, the sale of property by tax debt decreased by more than 60 %. It was an important change, but we admit that there can still be a way to go to avoid cases-limits. And the PSD has proposals to caution these situations, which today are exceptional cases. In particular, consideration should be given to the proportionality, method of execution of the penhora and the seriousness of the socioeconomic situation of families. As for the PS, they have changed their proposal three times in the last year, making the incentive for non-compliance worse in each one, and propose injustices without even errors. Still, your project is not as radical as those of PCP and BE. We therefore ask the PS to agree to bring the draft down to committee without a vote so that the discussion may also consider our proposals. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u156	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After this long and painful winter of four years of PSD / CDS governance, it is time to start bringing people to spring, it is time to start bringing families to spring, because, as we all know, it was a very hard winter. It was four years, during which families witnessed and lived a drastic reduction in their income, four years with unemployment reaching levels never seen in our country and knocking on the door of thousands and thousands of families. A brutal increase in labour income taxes, cuts in wages and cuts in social benefits. Now, with a winter of these, so strict, so hard and so long, the result could not be any other: many families were left pure and simply without any conditions of taking on their responsibilities with regard to the payment of their debts. It follows that the failure to pay private debts, from the outset of tax obligations, has led in many cases to situations of payroll, mobile property and even permanent homes of families. In just two years, 2014 and 2015, about 6000 families were left without their home, following debts to the Tax Authority. And this number refers only to the debts to the Tax Authority, but it is still necessary to add the thousands and thousands of cases of families who have lost their home to the banks, for failing to respond to the commitments made with them. In view of this picture, in our view, this House cannot be indifferent and passively watch the drama it represents for families to be without their home, without their permanent dwelling. Even worse: families were left without their homes because they had lost their jobs or had been victims of the options of the former PSD/CDS government, which substantially reduced their income and imposed an absolutely unfair and cruel tax burden on them or reduced their social support. This House has an obligation to create conditions to ensure that people, families, impermissibility and the impossibility of carrying out mortgages in its home for tax debts. But it is also necessary to take action and seek solutions to suspend the penhoras and sales of own and permanent housing in tax enforcement processes. We therefore accompany the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party in this purpose of bringing spring to people and families in our country. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u158	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say, of course, that today we are actually dealing with a matter of the greatest importance, but of a matter that can and should be resolved in another way, of a matter that must be resolved by good governance and not by proposing less good laws. And, Mr President, if I may please read a statement of 25 July 2011 from the Ministry of Solidarity and Social Security addressed to the services on this same issue. It states the following order:'Whereas, although fiscally envisaged, the failure and sale of residence buildings by natural debtors to social security is a very strong impact on the family economy; whereas it also considers the existence of other forms of debt collection, perhaps as effective, but of less impact on the family life of individual debtors, in particular through the negotiation of the phased payment of the debt; whereas also considering the social vision always present in the performance of our services, as well as the need to standardise the procedures and practices of the trial sections, as regards the sale of criminal buildings in the order of tax executions under Articles 215. o is 248. that of the CPPT, where the execution is carried out against natural persons and the property in question constitutes the house of residence of the family, the following shall be established: the judicial sale of property affected by the residence of natural debtors shall be relegated to the last instance, by the trial sections, after the exhaustion of all alternatives for the regularisation of the debt, in particular the conclusion of an agreement for the payment of benefits».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u161	Ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have just read an order prepared when I was Minister of Solidarity and Social Security Dr. Pedro Mota Soares and had as effect the fact that since 2011 no family has been removed from their family home for debts to social security. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u162	It should also be recalled here that the tax has deactivated, in 2015, as has already been mentioned by the previous PSD Member, the computer mechanism for the sale of penorated houses. At present, this sale in public terms for tax debts is no longer automatic, as was done before, in the case of sale of buildings intended for housing. And according to an orientation given in April last year to the finance services, the decision to promote and advance for the sale of the property may only occur after the taxpayer is called to the distribution of finance to be personally informed of the imminent marking of the sale. at this time, the taxpayer is aware of all the mechanisms that the law gives him in order to be able to regulate his debt and, even in the case limit, in which the taxpayer simply does not want or cannot go to the distribution, then an official should be sent to the place of the property, in order to understand whether it is effectively used as his own and permanent housing. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this matter, as I said earlier, is of the greatest importance. The CDS has this concern, the concern of defending the home of the family...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u163	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u164	I'm done, yes, Mr. President. As I was saying, the CDS is concerned about defending the home of family in a fair balance with the defense of taxpayers and the public record. And this, Mr. Members of the parties of the government, it is ruling well and not proposing laws that are not so good for it. That was exactly what the previous government did. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u165	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, it has been proven that PSD and CDS gain social sensitivity when they are not in the government and move on to the opposition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u167	What the PSD Member has just said is completely different from the position that the PSD has defended here in this House for several times and months. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u168	If that were the understanding of the PSD a year ago, thousands of families would not have remained without their own and permanent housing. And it is not true that the Socialist Party's bill does not safeguard the rights of the State over its own permanent dwellings. Our bill allows the penoration of own and permanent dwellings, but prohibits the sale of these own and permanent dwellings. And do so in relation to debts subsequently constituted on the dwelling, which, however, was penalized, with a ban on sale, do so in relation to the actual guarantees subsequently constituted on the same property and also in order to prevent the voluntary sale of that property which, however, is condemned by the Tax Authority. The former Government, PSD / CDS, after realizing that a family consisting of one woman, three children and two grandchildren saw their own home go to auction for a debt of € 1900 was not inhibited, nor the parties that supported it, to introduce a new rule in the 2015 State Budget, in the sense that from 2015 onwards taxpayers who had tax proceedings in court up to €5,000 no longer have the power to resort to the decisions of the taxation courts of 1. the instance. The limit was, until the end of 2014, from €1250, but was extended to €5,000 by the State Budget for 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u169	I have to ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u170	Finally, Mr President, I would like to read here a statement from the Ministry of Social Security of the former Government, led by Mr Pedro Mota Soares. Recently, the CDS Member has read the ex-Minister's office and I will now read an excerpt from a statement from the same Ministry and the same Minister. It explained at the time the source of the Ministry that the measure was due to the need, in a crisis context and in a fragile real estate market, to safeguard the dignity of the person and his right to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u171	And you don't think so? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u172	For that is exactly what the left has come here to demand in respect of tax debts and which you have three times rejected. in this sense, the PS will follow the bills of the Left Block and the PCP in tomorrow's votes. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u173	Mrs. Members, the Bureau shall record only one request for intervention by Mr Paulino Ascenção, and you have the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u174	Mr President, the PSD has brought here the concern with any incentive to tax evasion that these measures can corrode. I want to say that what encourages tax evasion was amnesty to the repatriation of capital that you have approved and from which Ricardo Salgado benefited. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The PSD has also been shown to be the party of solidarity, and I ask: how is it that you are. Do Members share this feeling of solidarity with the fact that 6000 families have lost their family in these two years? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u175	The Portuguese are aware that they are better protected by the adoption of these measures, which are being discussed here and which result from the understanding between the forces which constitute the majority of parliament in this House and which support the current government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u176	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u177	Mr. President and Mr. As and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only to clarify the honourable Members. Members who have now intervened that they were the administrative decisions of our government, the PSD and the CDS, which have prevented tax executions in social security... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u178	... and that with our measures significantly decreased executions between 2014 and 2015 by more than 60 %. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u179	I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that it had been established that the proposing party would be the last party to intervene, that was an agreement. And so I was clear by saying, when I gave the floor to the Left Block, that the Bureau only recorded the registration of the Left Block. With no further requests for registration, I give for the final debate of the projects of lein. 86 to 89 / XIII ( 1. ( a). Mrs. Members, we move on to the fifth point which consists in the overall and general assessment of the projects of lein. 52 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Bans banks to unilaterally change interest rates and other contractual conditions ( CFP ) and 90 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — I have established the obligation of banking institutions to fully reflect Euribor's decline in credit contracts for housing and consumption ( BE ). To present the CFP initiative, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The relationship between banks and people is an uneven relationship, because the strongest part is always the most negotiating power. And in this case, the banks are clearly. in case there is a need to borrow from a bank, the customer is always in a more fragile position, also due to the growing substitution of credit income. In other words, insofar as wages do not accompany the increase in the cost of living and the costs of essential goods, particularly housing, it increases the dependence of citizens on credit. The Portuguese are thus dependent on a banking system almost entirely private or managed as such and in the light of the rules of competition in the free market, i.e. rules that little distinguish competition from cartelization. The banking system assumes the strong position that allows it to impose its own rules and preserve, at the expense of businesses and families, the profitability of its activity. The current situation adds the effects of a financial crisis to a practice that has been known to the bank, which is that of changing the credit conditions attributed to multiple factors, which can go from changing the economic situation to changing the debtor's situation. In other words, banks find ways to pass exclusively to customers the risks associated with their own activity, especially if the customer is not a large economic group. in this case, as we saw in BPN, in BES and, even in other cases, virtually no customer requirements are placed and often the credit ends up without any recovery effort. The CFP believes that it is necessary to introduce a set of rules that oblige banks to reflect in their credit products and services the evolution of reference interest rates, when they are indexed, and to take the risk of any business where the price fluctuation is reflected in the internalisation of costs, without their transfer to customers. In other words, if the indexing interest rate is negative, the customer should feel this decrease in their monthly benefit, falling to the spread charged by the bank. As already mentioned, the practice of the bank to impose contractual clauses conditional on the conditions of context is also known. This practice takes place in particular in credit or in current accounts for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of the strong dependence these companies have on these financial instruments for their treasury management, this behaviour of the bank is in fact a practice of abuse of economic and financial dependence which must be clarified and unequivocally prohibited by law. What the CFP proposes, essentially, is that banks cannot change the rules in the middle of the game, that a citizen or family cannot see changes in the conditions of their loan, in particular at the level of the spread charged, and that a small or medium-sized company cannot be subject to fluctuations under the current account or credit conditions due to any change in the economic context, judged, determined and evaluated by the bank institution itself granting the credit. in essence, and to end, only the public control of the bank can place the bank at the service of the country and of the needs of people and companies and only such public control can introduce rules that make banks a mechanism to support the economy rather than a safeguard of the wealth created. However, in the current context, far from public control, it is clear that the bank cannot do what it wants. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u181	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Much has already been said in this debate. It is today commonly agreed that banks have long abandoned strategic principles of public interest, economic development, financial protection of the country and entered into a competition race for credit grant, because that is what benefits their business, that is what allows accumulating profits. It is at the root of this problem that a bank is seen as a private business, which must provide and give profits to its private shareholders, and not a bank that functions as an instrument of economic policy and industrial policy. This is wrong at first! But, in view of the principle, the fact is that, within the free will that banks now have to do their business, there is, in fact, an unequal relationship between the power of the bank and the power of the citizens, of the people they have to resort to. Banking institutions commonly abuse their power, abuse their information privilege, not only to sell products, as we have already seen in many cases in a wrong way or not giving all the information, but also imposing abusive contractual conditions, unilaterally changing contractual conditions, in particular conditions to prevent interest rates or debt services from falling when their indexers, as is the case with the Euribor rates, come down on a number of deadlines. We are perfectly aware that the fall in interest rates penalises the operational results of banks and weakens the balance sheet of banks. We are perfectly aware of this reality, but we also know that the more difficult it is for families to pay their credit for housing, the more banks are in "bad sheets" and more credits are in a position to be unable to be paid. And, therefore, making a balance and balance between these two reasons, we believe that, given the imbalance in the power relationship between the bank and the families, it is important that changes in indexing conditions to interest rates that determine the payments of benefits by loan or housing credits should make the changes of indexers fully reflect, thus giving the people who want to pay the credit, a relief proportional to the relief from the fall in interest rates, which is, and worth recalling, an arithmetic average of interest rates on the interbank market. Therefore, it is normally the interest rate at which banks are financed both in the monetary authority, in the European Central Bank, and in the interbank market, which we know has relatively low interest rates at the moment, also because of the liquidity injection operations of the European Central Bank. Therefore, our project is very simple, it aims to fully reflect the decreases in interest rates in benefits and in the price of credit to housing. But we will also follow the project presented here by the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u183	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no untrustworthy economic growth and there is no confidence without security and no sense of justice. This question was raised in 2015 and in 2015 the Portuguese, all those who have mortgaged house to the bank, felt uncertain. They felt uncertain because different institutions had different versions about reading what it meant, or could mean, an Euribor rate with negative value. The expression of this uncertainty was placed on the table, in public opinion, by the actors, by the bank, by DECO ( Consumer Defense) and even by this Parliament during the year 2015. The Portuguese Banking Association, in March 2015, understood that the negative interest rates, the negative Euribor, should not be reflected in the global interest rate, while the DECO defended, and well, that the contracts are to be fulfilled. This Parliament was able to resolve this problem in 2015, and it was able to resolve it either downstream or further to the intervention of the Banco de Portugal, as a regulator, in accordance with the circular letter issued on 31 March 2015. But in this Parliament, despite the initiative of the PS, the CFP and the BE, the majority then led the initiatives that have been put forward. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] It is now time to look at this uncertainty and think that in future contractual plans must provide security for citizens and families and remove uncertainty. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, dual security: first, in the performance of contracts (what is in the past is to comply with and negative interest rates must be reflected in the global interest rate) and second, also in the future, ensuring that the information asymmetry between the bank and citizens and the clear asymmetry in financial literature is resolved in this Parliament with initiatives that allow for future contractual plans not only to reflect inexorably that the overall interest rate must also consider the negative Euribor rate, but also that unilateral changes should not be allowed and should not be included in contracts. I know that we are putting an obstacle to contractual freedom between two parties, but there is a more fragile part that this Parliament must defend, and this most fragile part is the citizens, is the families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why the Socialist Party will make its contributions, in the focus of discussion in the specialty, but will support the initiatives of the PCP and the Left Block. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u185	Mr Carlos Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate here is of the greatest relevance this afternoon on a subject which has been a recurring issue in Parliament and which everyone should be concerned about. however, I regret the fact that we are in the presence of almost a beauty contest, in terms of bills to present, insofar as they suffer from some lack of technical rigor, some confusion, from a legislative point of view, in the exchange of concepts and criteria sometimes even a bit or so contradictory. in this circumstance, it is unfortunate that this debate is not done with greater rigour, because the question of the nationalisation of banking and the public control of the bank certainly does not have a place in this debate, and therefore it is to mix all of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u187	That's rigour!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u188	With regard to the various initiatives that have been put forward here, I must say that, with regard to the concern of the respective parties, she is exactly cautious and that is why, Mr Socialist Party Member, which we voted against last year. It is because the Banco de Portugal, in its circular letter, ensured that the contracts, which was the bank's claim, which was the claim of the Portuguese Banks Association and, even, that which was the opinion of the DECO, were exceeded. As you know, the DECO was about to say that the limit to negative interest rates was exactly the spread itself. DECO, in this perspective, fell short of the position of the Banco de Portugal, which was even to the point of saying : « Yes, sir, interest rates have to be poured out and banks will be obliged to pay loans to people », which is happening at the moment with interest rates Euribor to one month. Therefore, in this circumstances, the letter-circular of Banco de Portugal solved this fundamental problem and banking consumers were better defended with this circular letter and with their own contracts, because what currently stands for really banking consumers, customers who have housing credit, are exactly their current contracts, because they are their current contracts that prevent the existence of certain types of clauses. But, as for the rest, we are going there, because I think there are other very important issues. It is also intended, in these bills, to make changes to what is the free will of the parties. Since banks argue that negative interest rates are being exercised, what prevents a citizen from hiring with their bank a maximum rate in their housing credit for the next 10 years, for example, of 3 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u189	If you don't have a choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u190	What prevents a bank client from exercising this power? Since banks are so in need of limiting interest rates to zero, why not lead to the free contractualisation of the parties? Alert to another problem, which has already been raised by me in a previous debate—and that is what we should be discussing here—that has to do with the fact that interest rates do not "sleep", the interest rates, more day, less day, will rise, only we do not know when or how. Like the ladies. Members know, who defines the interest rates Euribor are the banks themselves and it is perfectly natural that, from time to time, the interest rates "agree" and, therefore, that bank customers cannot sleep at rest. So why not take advantage of this debate to inform people of the possibility that they will have to be notified of what the growth of a 4 % or 5 % interest rate in their housing credit will represent?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u191	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u192	What will that imply in what your credit for housing in the future? And that is why we have raised the problem, we think that this debate has to be used to alert people, we must introduce important measures to the level of financial iliteracy, as the Socialist Party's Member mentioned, because resting sleep is very important for bank customers. We must not allow, in the medium and long term, and this is also our function, which we exercise, of alertness, that customers cannot sleep rested every day, because the interest rates Euribor to grow in an unmeasured way will be a very serious problem for the future and for all bank customers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u193	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this is a debate we have already done and have done so - relatively recently. by the time we did so, the matter, also in good rigour, was at least partially exceeded, because much of what was disputed had already been resolved. Let's see, and let's go, first, to the present. The PCP bill prohibits banks from unilaterally altering interest rates and other contractual conditions. I can't help but say that I absolutely agree with this object. In fact, I would not ban only the banks, I would prohibit any part of unilaterally modifying either interest rates or any contractual condition. [[PCP protests.]] Fortunately, the Portuguese Civil Code agrees with me, and therefore the banks or any party are already prohibited from unilaterally altering a contractual condition. This ban already exists and has always existed. What happened was that some banking institutions said, at a certain point, before we had the discussion on this subject, that they would simply disregard this prohibition and not apply the interest rates when they were of less than zero value. Well, the Banco de Portugal, at the time, made a circular letter, which was not a recommendation, was a circular letter, explaining the understanding of the law governing this matter. In fact, there is specific law for this matter. In other words, it is not only « if such prohibition does not generally result from the Civil Code, in its Article 406. o", except for error, there is also specific legislation in this area. After that, I think it was more or less unanimous that it was, of course, prohibited to make this unilateral amendment of contracts. So from the point of view of the present, two, one, Mrs. Members: or we are here discussing projects that are purely proclaiming, and I don't think they make sense,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u196	... or then, at the very least, we may have a problem of law enforcement. But the problem of law enforcement, I think, is not solved by making laws that all say the same thing. To the point of view of legal certainty, it does not seem to me that there is one, two or three laws to say exactly the same thing increases legal security; on the contrary, it introduces even legal insecurity, because people are convinced that they only have to comply with the Civil Code if there is not one but two specific diplomas to regulate the matter, to say exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u198	It does not seem good legal practice to me, and from this point of view, I cannot believe that it makes sense. With regard to the future, an express prohibition on the inclusion of certain contractual clauses, yes, the issue can make sense. In any case, this debate has already happened and it was a short time ago, I believe that we should take some care of the legislation, because for example simply saying that certain clauses cannot be inserted or that certain changes to the interest rate cannot be made — and for example Article 2. the draft PCP law refers to the interest rate contracted with the credit borrower or with the depositor—it seems to me that we should be a little more careful in this formulation. Why? Because, of course, the borrower is interested in the interest of the interest rate as low as possible, the depositor is interested in it as high as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u199	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u200	Of course, Mr. President, thank you. currently, the interest rates for deposit are very low. I believe that we do not want to introduce provisions that can allow banks simply to freeze them at a given deposit; on the contrary, what we want is that in the future, when they are higher, this possibility is available to depositors. So I think there has to be some more care here in the formulation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u201	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am grateful for the interventions and contributions and, of course, detailed questions may be dealt with in the speciality.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u203	No details!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u204	I just want to leave the following record: the PSD and the CDS in this debate assume that the negotiation between a bank and a person is a negotiation between equal parties and, as such, there should be no limit to contractual possibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u205	There are limits!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u206	Mrs. Members, perhaps that explains why the PSD/CDS government ruled in favour of banks, sacrificing people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u207	Is that Banif?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u208	But the objective question is that between a bank and a citizen or between a bank and a small and medium-sized company there is a situation of obvious inequality. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is clear that it is already illegal for a bank to unilaterally amend, provided that these amendments are not provided for in the contract. See, Mrs Deputy, if in a contract with a bank you are told: « The conditions are these, but... », and there is a clause that says «... at any time I can alter them to my pleasure ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u209	If the clause says only that is null!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u210	And the honourable Member is obliged, because she has no other option, to sign that loan. If a small and medium-sized company hires with a bank a current account for treasury management, with certain interest in case of discovery, and suddenly the bank changes these interest, because there was a clause in the contract that allowed it to do so, then, of course, this is a unilateral amendment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u211	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u212	...because he found a way, putting himself in the contract, to stop being marginal to the contract. However, we do not cease to be faced with a contract between parties which are not on equal terms. Therefore, what the CFP proposes is that such clauses, i.e. clauses opening the door for banks to do whatever they want during the duration of the contract, cannot be included in the contract simply because the citizen has no choice. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] Mr President, the citizen has no option of accepting or not accepting those conditions. most of the time, you have to accept,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u213	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u214	... precisely because of the inequality between the parties. [[Congratulations from the PCP, BE and PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u215	The Bureau does not record any more entries, and I therefore conclude this last item on our agenda. Before I take account of the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, I would like to remind the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who, immediately after the end of the plenary session, will be the Janeiras in the Hall of Nobles, for which all Members are present. Ladies and gentlemen are invited. Mr. Secretary will do the favor of reading the file which, however, has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have just entered the following legislative initiatives: draft resolution No 67 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the conduct of an external and independent audit of Banif, the evolution of the value of the Bank and the recapitalisation measures by the State ( January 2013 ), the resolution of the Bank and the sale of its activity to Santander Totta ( December 2015 ) ( PSD ) ; Bill No. 91 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March ( Law consolidating the legislation on the rights and duties of the health services user ) ( CDS-PP ) ; and Parliamentary Inquiry No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Possible parliamentary inquiry into Banif's management, the process leading to the implementation of the resolution and alienation of its activity and its consequences ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-01-07.u217	Mrs. Members, we arrive at the end of our work and the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: joint debate, of the projects of lein. 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Replacement of retired national holidays ( CFP ), 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restores the national holidays of the Implementation of the Republic on 5 October and the Restoration of Independence on 1 December ( PS ), 20 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Restitutes compulsory national holidays eliminated ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ), and 33 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restoration of deleted national holidays ( BE ), in general, and draft resolutions 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Planned revision of the suspension of religious holidays and corresponding civil holidays ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 51 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Review of the suspension of religious holidays ( PCP ), 55 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Restoration of deleted holidays ( BE) and 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the agreement with the Holy See for the restitution of religious holidays ( The Greens); joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein. 83 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensures the freeness of the basic account ( BE) and 92 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation of credit institutions to provide a deposit account to the standardised order designated as « basic account », and prohibits the collection of commissions, expenditure or other charges by the services provided under that account ( PCP ) ; assessment of petition No 521 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Union of Teachers Licensed by Politicians and Universities ( SPLIU ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to establish a special retirement scheme for children's educators and teachers of basic and secondary education; joint assessment of petition No 523 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Vania Marisa Santos Azinheira and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend the curricular goals of 1. the cycle, and draft resolution No 62 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Suspension of curricular targets and opening of a debate process for the definition of objectives for a real and profound curriculum reform ( PCP ) ; joint assessment of petitions Nos 528 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), calling on the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to moralize the use of public money, to put an end to the privileges of private education and defence of public school ( North Region ), and 531 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), calling on the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to moralize the use of public money, put an end to the privileges of private education and defense of the public school of quality ( Region of Alentejo ), and draft resolutions 56 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Rationalization of contracts of association with private education ensuring the protection of public school ( BE) and 61 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By a public school that covers the needs of the entire population ( CFP ). There will also be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 47 minutes.]]
