ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries. Before we begin the first item on the agenda, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report to us on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 357 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Legal system of special education ( CFP ), which fell to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first item on the agenda generally include the discussion of the proposal for a law No 43/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the scheme for the professional valorisation of workers in public service. The Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment has the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is presented today in this House for the beginning of its discussion in accordance with the Government Programme and the parliamentary agreements concluded and as a result of the collective negotiation with the trade union structures representative of the employees of the Public Administration. in its terms, the retraining scheme is repealed, and a new scheme is set up, called « occupational valuation of workers in public service ». A first question arises: why does the requalification regime be repealed? This scheme was created by Law No 80 / 2013 of 28 November and later integrated into the General Law on Public Works, approved by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June. This scheme which is now repealed is based on a failed process of retraining generating long periods of inactivity, an alleged non-systematic and compulsory vocational training and without added value for the purpose of restarting functions, a remuneration reduction of 40 % in the first 12 months and 60 % in the second phase, without a predetermined term, in a single form of reinitiation of functions, through temporary mobility situations and thus generating, in its term, a repeated return to the requalification situation, and, finally, the termination of the employment contract after 12 months, in cases of impossibility of moving to the second phase. Thus, at the end of November 2015, at the time of the entry into office of this government, there were 862 persons in this inactivity regime and 128 at risk of losing their public employment bond, a consequence that the current government has prevented, promoting the resumption of functions and the necessary consolidation in the workplace. in this context, it was imperative to change this legal framework. Thus, the new system of professional valorization, which is now subject to the approval of this House, is essentially based on a different approach to the management of human resources of the Public Administration, in which the full use of its assets is encouraged, going to meet the needs identified in public services. from that point on, a second question arises: what are the main differences in this new regime? Having the same starting point, a process of reorganization or rationalization of services, which is the generating context of these situations, is envisaged from the outset the intervention of the INA (General Directorate for the Qualification of Workers in Public Functions) as an entity that manages professional valorization. in the course of this process, the workers covered are affected by INA for the purposes of applying the system of professional valuation until the start of functions, to occur within a maximum period of three months. Therefore, first difference: a clear and transparent procedure and an effective performance of the managing entity. The management of workers by INA during this time necessarily implies the frequency of training actions standardized according to the functional contents of careers, with a view to strengthening and adjusting their competences, depending on the needs reported by other public services. Therefore, second difference: effective application of vocational training to workers covered to enhance their skills, depending on the needs of other public services. During the period of professional valuation, the worker retains the category, position and level of remuneration held in the service of origin at the date of placement in that situation. Therefore, third difference: without restriction of rights. The re-employment takes place through the integration, without the possibility of exclusion of workers, into a new job previously identified, provided that it corresponds to a category not less than the one held and that the new job is located in the same municipality of its original office or in the municipality of its residence. Therefore, the fourth difference: the effective re-initiation of functions is due to job integration into a service with reported needs and not temporary and repeated mobility. In order to expand the possibilities for re-employment, the possibility of communicability of careers is envisaged. With the same objective of re-establishment of functions, the figure of territorial mobility, with incentives for mobility and subsequent integration into work, which is more than 60 km from the place of residence, is introduced, in any case, by agreement of the worker. in the same line, the possibility of re-employment of functions in local or regional administration and in other public law collectives and private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ) is envisaged. Finally, over a period of no more than three months, the integration of the worker in the General Secretariat or in the service responsible for the management of the human resources of the ministry of his or her home service, in a job which is not occupied or automatically provided for in the staff map, is envisaged. Therefore, fifth difference: multiple alternatives are created to ensure effective restarting of functions. Finally, a budgetary transfer mechanism, which translates to the worker, is planned to be accompanied up to their new job integration by the amount budgeted for their remuneration in the financial year in which the situation of professional valuation occurs. Therefore, the sixth difference: budgetary support for the effective resumption of functions. Other differences could be stated regarding this new legal framework, oriented not to the forced reduction of public employment but, rather, to the valorisation of its greatest potential, which are people. Finally, it is also worth asking what happens to those who are retrained at the date of entry into force of this new scheme. A transitional scheme is provided for situations of inactivity which remain at the date of entry into force of the diploma. under this scheme, it is given the option to the worker himself for one of four possible situations, from among them the return to activity, promoting the integration in the secretary-general of the ministry of origin, or the application of an exceptional regime up to the legal age of retirement or retirement for those who are aged 55 or over. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thus, in accordance with the current Government Programme, it contributes to the strategic desire to value and dignity the exercise of public functions as a determining factor for the pursuit of the public interest, at the service of which all those who work in the Public Administration are exclusively linked, according to matrix and constitutional principles. This is how it helps to achieve a fairer society, based on the value of work, creating decent work references in the highest national employer. This is how, through the people who work in the Public Administration, contribute to the goals of efficiency, efficiency and productivity, always so desired for the public sector, because those who work in the Public Administration are and want to be part of the solution, are not the problem, are not a stock that, necessarily, has to decrease in an Excel sheet column. This is how, finally, if you want to contribute to putting the Public Administration also at the service of the economy, but without ignoring that this design is made with people, with their workers and leaders, through good management and leadership, influencing motivation through clearly defined and aligned objectives and results, with a clear legal and work framework, in which rights, but also duties, are the basis for creating confidence and demand in the pursuit of the common good that everyone is asking us to pursue. After all, and always, by a Public Administration at the service of citizens and businesses in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u5	Madam Secretary of State, the Bureau records the registration of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u6	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u7	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the public service has more employees in one sector and fewer employees in another. In fact, the current government has committed itself to reducing the number of employees by adopting the criteria of each of them to only enter one. The truth is that it is far from achieving this goal. The need for rationalization and flexibility in public administration is, for us, evidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u9	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u10	But we don't know if it's like that for everyone. This rationalization, at the time of the former Government of the Socialist Party, was baptized of mobility; the Left Block and the CFP spoke against. in the PSD / CDS government, it was called requalification; the Left Block and PCP protested even more vehemently. Now, it is crism of valorization; what will the Left Block and the PCP do?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u11	You must even dream of the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u12	We have some curiosity. The truth is that « the times change, the desires change». And there are some issues that we cannot fail to note as being the so-called 'costs of governance'. We have left some specific questions to the government. What are the incentives for public servants to value themselves and seek placement? For the government, it seems absolutely indifferent if an official is working or not, he wins exactly the same. And this is a particularly relevant issue when we are talking about geographical mobility, in which the only criterion that seems to be relevant ends up being either the residence council or the municipality in which they serve today. This leaves us with a question: why not even extend it to neighbouring councils? Ending the valuation process without the placement of the official, what the proposed law of the Government proposes is that the worker remain in the secretary-general of the ministry to which he belongs, even if he does not have any assigned function. Now, we believe that this is not good for the employee, it is not good for the services and it is not good for the general secretaries to become gigantic shelves. And this, as it is evident, is not clear. And the workers who, in situations of valorization, choose to be placed in other entities which, for example, are governed by private law rules — is this the case in the foundations, public associations, IPSS — will they become governed by the Labour Code or by the General Labour Law in Public Functions? We are curious: are the protocols with the IPSS that will establish how this same regime will be processed? I leave these questions to the Government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u13	To request clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, the PSD/CDS requalification regime was a fraud. Everyone knows it was a fraud, the Left Block has said so. It was a fraud. [[PSD protests.]] It was one of the many attacks the former government made on workers in public service and was a disaster for public services. It was, from its very beginning, a very badly disguised scheme of dismissal of civil servants, and that is why there was even one of the greatest attempts at collective dismissal promoted by any government in this country. This regime ended at the time when the right party lost the majority in this Parliament. It was one of the first laws, the law which repealed the requalification regime of employees of the Public Administration. But we also believe that it is important to put an end to the myths that justified it, that gave it its origin and that the right remains to justify the existence of a regime that had no reason to exist. First question: did there exist any valuation or vocational training of workers in public office in this requalification regime that now ends and that the right created? Second question: was there any excess of workers in the Public Administration, there was any study to verify in which services these workers were surpluses? Or, on the contrary, does the Public Administration have a lack of workers and this regime only served to fire, to try to fit in the numbers of the Excel document the cuts the right would want to make at the expense of the employees of the Public Administration, and then replace them by unemployed in employment-inclusion contracts? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u15	For clarifications, Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, I should like to introduce some clarity and clarity to you in your speech. The Secretary of State forgot to speak in the register of the Socialist Party, the bad registration of the Socialist Party in the field of worker mobility. And, therefore, it is up to me from now on to make three aspects clear. Firstly, the mobility regime was created in 2006 by the Government of the Socialist Party. Was it or wasn't it, Secretary of State? Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u18	The second aspect I want to remember is that it was the Socialist Party's government at the time that applied wage cuts to these workers. Was it or wasn't it, Secretary of State? Yes! The third aspect I want to reveal is this: confusion, evil, as you call it, concerning workers affected by this regime was carried out by the Socialist Party. Now linking up with the response I can give to Mrs Joana Mortágua, I will say the following: the honourable Member has asked whether the PSD Government has carried out vocational training actions aimed at these workers. I will remind you that the mobility regime created by the Socialist Party sent hundreds and hundreds of workers home without ever having given them the training actions that were promised and without ever having done the proper adjustment of these workers to the needs of the Public Administration services. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Madam Member, that's what you don't want to hear, but it's inconvenient truths that have to be said. To conclude, I would like to address a few questions to the Secretary of State. Is the Secretary of State in a position right now to ensure that within three months, I repeat, within three months, the worker arrives at the end of this process with the proper adjustment made? In other words, can you ensure that the worker is properly integrated into the new job and thus meet the needs of the Public Administration? Or do you want the Secretary of State to take another path to the worker, who may be here under consideration but is not written? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u19	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Carolina Ferra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u20	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, on the rule « two for one», yes, that was a reference rule, but what distinguishes us, of course, is that this is not a forced and blind rule. As Mr Minister yesterday, once again, had the opportunity to say in the Committee on Labour, this rule, at the place where it was invoked, was supported on the basis of retirement exits. There has been less and less — you know why! — retirement benefits. We're in another climate, aren't we? We are in a climate of stability, of predictability, in which people know what awaits them. Maybe, before, they didn't know and went out in mass. It was, however, that departure quota for retirement purposes that we had as a reference until 2015 and, in fact, in 2016 is not happening. There are exits for retirement and only these were considered for the rule "two by one"; no forced exits for termination of employment contracts or whatever — this was a sacred point for us. Therefore, if the rule was conditioned to this factor and if this factor does not occur, there is no mandatory compliance with the rule "two by one". Moreover, the rule could never be taken in a blind way as we all know that there are sectors of the Public Administration that are knocking on the bottom in terms of lack of people, as is the case in the areas of education and health. And we've been running through this situation, as you know. So it's not a blind rule and it's never been for this government. On the issue of special mobility — and I use it to make the bridge with what Mrs Carla Barros said — we are always in time to do better, so the question is to do better. We can, and should, build on the base of layers and not destroy, which is a basic rule. And then in the Public Administration... It is that we pass but the Public Administration stays, the institutions remain. If the PSD and the CDS, in previous governments, worked on what existed — special mobility – then they went far beyond special mobility. Let me mention two major differences. First difference: in the special mobility scheme, there was no termination of work contract—never! — because the law did not allow it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u21	Let's see now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u22	But your law allowed the termination of employment contracts last 12 months of followed or interpolated inactivity, which was very easy to achieve. So we arrived in December 2015 and there were 128 people at risk of termination of the employment contract. Second big difference: let us not forget Article 245. that of the current law of work in public functions — a law which will be repealed with this new law that we present in this House — article which provides, in the event of economic and financial imbalance in the service, for rationalisation of effectiveness. Budgetary difficulties all services have, so this was too easy for workers to requalify. I would also like to point out that people are not working during the recovery period because they are in vocational training. The three months — short-term — are precisely for vocational training. I guarantee — and again I will meet what Mrs Carla Barros said — that the three months will be applied for vocational training and then there will be the integration of the worker. Guaranteed! The scheme is designed according to that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u23	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u24	Mr President, Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Mr. Members : Cavaco Silva, when questioning what to do to civil servants, since sending them to reform was not useful because they would stop discounting for the General Pension Fund and that would cause the State to lose IRS revenues, ended up concluding that it would just wait for them to die. Since that time the right is asked what to do to public officials, how to attack them and, indeed, be said, how to attack the public services that these officials guarantee. And they tried everything: wage cuts—and they dropped by 30 % the average hour profit of public servants during their government—; cuts in Christmas and holiday allowances; they fired those who could fire and whenever they could fire; they increased taxes, increased contributions, increased working hours... however, they swung a few times in the Constitution at the cost of this attack, but did not even give up trying to answer the question of Cavaco Silva about what to do to public officials and thus did not give up trying to fire public officials. It is ironic that it was Cavaco Silva himself, as President of the Republic, to send to the Constitutional Court the law that provided for the dismissal of civil servants, to which the Constitutional Court came to fall for declaring that this dismissal was unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u25	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u26	The former government finally circumvented the lead of the Constitutional Court, but did not circumvent the bad intentions it had in that law of requalification of workers in public functions. Therefore, it created a real regime of injustice, a real blackmail regime, in which arbitrarily and without taking into account the needs of the services, the workers in public office, to perform functions that were lacking in the services, were placed in a regime that fires them if they had a recent bond, but if they had an old bond, they could not fire them, it imposed on them a wage cut so much that the most likely was to push these workers against the wall so that they would end up asking for the termination of the contract. This is what happened to more than 600 social security workers, for whom the Ombudsman then recommended that they be reinstated because there was a total lack of criteria and grounds for the decision to send these 600 workers to requalification. There was even a great social'sensitivity' by the Ministry of the current Mr Mota Soares when they sent cancer patients with multiple sclerosis to this requalification regime — a real social'sensitivity'! Today, we are faced with a recovery regime which has a first and greatest merit: that of confirming the revocation of the retraining regime of workers in public functions, i.e. confirmation of the end of this regime. On the valuation regime, in addition to that first merit, there are others that we would like to highlight. According to merit: the result of a negotiation process, which the former Government has always refused to do with workers' unions in public service. Thirdly, no salary cuts are provided for in the requalification scheme. Fourth : there is no possibility of dismissal, and there the right has always been unpublished in the various creative attempts to fire public officials. Fifth: it enables real vocational training during the retraining period, but it is accompanied by another proposal that allows the training of workers outside this system of valorisation, in agreement and participation of trade unions. Sixth : it has a time limit of three months because to create a requalification or valuation regime that does not have a time limit is to create a bottomless hole where workers are sent in public functions, which was what the previous government did. Seventh: it has clear mechanisms for the reintegration into the work of these workers. Eighth : provides for mechanisms to identify the needs of the services and therefore ends with the arbitrariness that existed in the previous government. Nine: ensures that the worker maintains the category, position and level of remuneration held in his previous situation. Tenth: introduce the need to agree with the worker in mobility situations. Therefore, the PSD runs around and around, but it will have to say that it does not agree with this regime because it does not allow workers to be fired, and we will discuss this regime for the first time. It is a real recovery regime and we will discuss it, of course. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u27	There are no signs of Mr. Members to make requests for clarification have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The requalification regime imposed by the former Government, the PSD and the CDS had the objective of cutting wages, dismissing workers, withdrawing rights, privatizing public services. In fact, it is not possible to separate this regime from a script for the reform of the State, from Dr. Paulo Portas, which liquidated the public school, the National Health Service, social security and culture as the social functions of the State. A paradigmatic example of this so-called ‘requalification’, which was no longer than the advance for dismissal, was what happened at the Social Security Institute, and now Mr Mota Soares can talk about it because he is a specialist in this matter. Your Ministry was the one who sent more workers for requalification — it was more than 700! Presidents of child and youth protection committees, cancer patients, disabled persons, workers who responded to permanent needs were removed from their work, with pay cuts and watching the deterioration of the conditions of operation of the services they provided. Mrs. Members, the situation has reached the summit of, simultaneously and in the same building, there are workers to receive letters for the early dismissal and unemployed to be called through employment-insertion contracts to supply the needs of those who were being sent for requalification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after more than 40 opinions against the previous so-called'requalification' regime, strikes, concentrations, demonstrations of public administration workers and changes in the correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, we are discussing today a bill which does not provide for the possibility of cuts in salaries and redundancies, and this proves that it has been worth and is worth fighting. Moreover, the view that any reform of the Public Administration should be based on degradation and the withdrawal of rights is deeply wrong. For decades now, successive reforms of the Public Administration have been presented as a pretext for reducing wages and workers' rights, when the central foundation should be the improvement of the organization of services according to the needs of the population, respecting and valuing workers and their rights and living conditions. For the PCP, there are no more public workers or services, there are at least less. On the other hand, we have constantly heard the right, including the CDS, saying that there are more workers and public servants. I'd like to know where, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro! It is that saying something of this is a very serious matter, especially because it is precisely the opposite when people, day by day, have to make use of public services. This is the effect and consequence of a policy that was developed by the PSD and the CDS and which calls into question the functioning of the services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u32	For this reason, for the CFP, it is necessary to ensure the appropriate number of workers for the operation of services as well as the material conditions of such services. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are positive aspects to this bill that deserve to be pointed out, particularly when clarifying the intervention of the Labour Conditions Authority in matters of health and safety at work, as well as strengthening the active participation of workers, as well as strengthening the active participation of workers in all aspects of trade union activity, which were not provided for in the General Labour Act in Public Functions. Mr. Secretary of State, we still have some things we would like to put in. The most negative aspects of the previous regime disappear, but there are others that need to be guarded and improved. We therefore believe that there should be accountability and consequences in the Public Administration if the training plan is not made and if it does not occur in three months, in order to avoid a prolonged and indefinite situation without any instrument for the worker to resort to. We understand that it is essential to express the guarantee that the process of valuation, particularly in the post-training period and therefore at the end of three months, cannot affect any rights and guarantees of workers, in particular as regards their maturity. We understand that it is important that there are guarantees that the worker does not go without assigned functions; that the territorial mobility for places with more than 60 km will always be dependent on the worker's agreement; that the unoccupied job integration should result from the same career and not in lower careers; that it should be ensured that workers already in careers, who already have experience in the Public Administration, are not subject to a new experimental period; that the integration of the worker into the home service or the secretary-general of origin should be adopted, without any penalties in the salary of the workers, thus enhancing their placement and return to work. We also believe that it is important to caution situations that can push workers into an early retirement situation with serious penalties or terminations by mutual agreement. This is the commitment of the CFP and we will continue to beat us for the valorization of the employees of the Public Administration. There are no quality public services without respected and valued workers in their duties. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u33	For an intervention, Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This may seem, at least for some, a debate, perhaps more technical, stripped of ideological contours in the solutions found, either in the proposal under consideration by the current government, with professional valorization, or in the requalification of the previous government, which is now intended to be repealed. however, this will be one of the times when the debate is genuinely political...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u36	... and in which two different models are faced, we would say practically antagonistic of society. on the one hand, that of the PSD / CDS coalition, hidden in a deep ideological aversion to the public thing translated in three words: segmentation, stigmatization and exclusion, in a process of imposition and prepotence without any consultation to the representative organizations of the workers of the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the pseudo-reform of the Public Administration by Paulo Portas, precisely diminished by the social communication and by all parties of the opposition of the height, was no more than a plan to reduce, saw him fire workers, demotivating them, creating insecurity and lack of prospects in the future so the government more easily implement its project of dismantling public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u38	It should also be remembered that with the so-called special requalification or mobility, as it is known, the contract of employment ceases at the end of 12 months, followed or interpolated, of inactivity and, even more serious, the insufficiency of financial resources could be the direct way for a service to resort to requalification. On the other hand, we have the PS model anchored in a vision of public services as the sole guarantors of true equality of access by citizens to basic services with quality. Three words for this model: dignity, valorization and integration, in a process of social dialogue involving all public administration unions, another distinguishing mark of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u40	Curious that those who now appeal hollow consensus are the same as those who imposed requalification on workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u41	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u42	...without watching them listen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The consensus is building, it is difficult, it is known, hence the importance of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u44	They are built with work, perseverance and openness, all involving and responsible rather than hypocritical appeals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The professional enhancement of workers in public functions therefore consists of a mechanism for managing and improving human resources, breaking an intolerable cycle of subalternization of the Public Administration. In short, it is another measure that has been carried out by the XXI Government Programme, it is the result of a negotiation process and abrogating the requalification regime, a humiliating and ineffective regime which has led to the waste of the resources and skills of hundreds of workers, subjecting them to a life of difficulties with cuts of 40 % and 60 % in their wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u45	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u46	The workers finally have options. They can maintain the category, position and level of remuneration of the source service in a perspective of integration and, « two in », not only improve the quality of the services provided, because there is no quality provision without motivated workers, as they are valued through a process of vocational training, specific and especially adjusted to situations. If we combine the recently approved rule of State Budget with professional valuation, which allows inter-branch mobility, regardless of functional complexity, we have an ideal mix that promotes the effectiveness of services, returns dignity to workers and guarantees greater stability for both workers and services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At the end of the day, a word about our daily lives: we finally enjoyed a democratic normality, an invaluable good. It is not, as some far-sighted right says, because the unions are numbed— nor has the dictatorship managed to numb them! It is important not to be so ignorant and to read a bit of the history of the trade union movement—no, but because, finally, people are not subject to the free will of a government that one day for the other short and short wages and because, finally, we all enjoy a predictable daily life with a horizon of security and hope in a collective project by Portugal and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u47	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u48	Mr President, Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Mr. Members: I begin by addressing all the employees of the Public Administration. To all employees of the Public Administration who, in an exemplary and collaborative way, on behalf of the highest national interest, contributed to the rise of the bankruptcy country in which the Socialist Party left it in 2011. [[PSD applause.]] It is based on this value of gratitude and recognition that the PSD Parliamentary Group presents itself in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u49	Hypocrisy has short legs!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u50	However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the options of this government have not always led to the interests of workers, nor to the effective and efficient functioning of the Public Administration at the service of businesses and citizens. Let us remember the recent news: it is the schools that close because of the lack of workers; it is the health that sees their services paralyzed because of the lack of workers... Furthermore, many other examples could be given, as were recognized yesterday by the Minister of Finance itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has a record. He's got a bad record. This government has a bad record concerning the subjects of public administration workers. It was in 2009, in an electoral manoeuvre, because it was in time of elections that the Socialist Party's Government increased the salaries of public administration workers by about 3 % and then that same Government prepared a Budget for 2011 where it cut even more than it had increased; it was the frozen careers even before the crisis arrived; and we are all certainly reminded of the famous June 2011 episode in which public administration workers took the serious risk of not receiving their fair salary for the work they had provided. And in this particular area of worker mobility, the Socialist Party also has a record. Here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I refer to the irresponsible form which the Government of the Socialist Party created and dealt with by the so-called'special mobility regime' at the time of 2006. in fact, the cuts in wages of workers under special mobility regime have the authority of the Government of the Socialist Party! Moreover: it was this same Socialist Party that kept workers at home without ever proposing to them vocational training actions to improve their skills profile and thus to be restored to a new job. There were hundreds of workers in the Ministry of Agriculture who in the Government of José Socrates called for Parliament to resolve this impasse; today, the memories of these protagonists have been erased. The Socialist Party presents itself in this debate to deny the paternity of the matter, but this time the BE and the PCP, which by 2015 also criticized, here today they applaud.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u51	You're looking bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u52	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as time passes, we have less and less reason to rely on this Government's ability to manage the human resources of the Public Administration well, to respect its employees and to implement an ongoing modernization of the Public Administration. The way in which the Government presented the proposal for professional valorization is another scenario that converges in the exclusive compliance of parliamentary agreements of the Socialist Party with the Left Block and with the Portuguese Communist Party. The Government's rhetoric on this subject is based on a consciously confused and objectively incomplete speech. The PSD does not see itself in this way of conveying half-truths to workers and giving as a whole what is not complete. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this scheme of valorization of workers seems to have a good purpose for us, because we all naturally defend the valorization of public administration workers, but its content is opaque and not objective. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] This proposal leaves much room open so that the Government, already outside the scope of the dialogue with the representatives of the workers, will be able to pursue its best interests, harming the workers who come under this regime. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group will never follow models of public employment management that do not balance three aspects: the appreciation and dignity of the worker, a high quality public service to be provided to the citizen and to the companies and their cost in the Portuguese purse.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u53	Can you say that without laughing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u54	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this proposal from the Government it is understood that, at the end of three months, when the worker will be assigned to this scheme, there will be countless workers who will continue without being affected to a new job, because the Government is part of the precious contribution — see only! — a digital platform for aid to this management which does not even exist. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are unfortunate truths that we must continue to reveal. The regulation of this matter leaves room for the Government to continue the exercises of evil and disrespect by the employees of the Public Administration. I'm done as I started, ladies and gentlemen. Members: all employees of the Public Administration, in an exemplary and collaborative way, on behalf of the highest national interest, collaborated to build the country. That is why this path of responsibility and of rigour that we travel together cannot be wasted for the benefit of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u55	Mrs Carla Barros, a Member of Parliament has entered in order to make requests for clarification. Although you have little time to answer, who will make the request for clarification has enough time, since it has 2 minutes and 42 seconds. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mrs Carla Barros, spoke four or five times, I think, of registration. Let me tell you, Madam Member, that, at least in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, as far as I know, we have the clean record,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but in the case of your Parliamentary Group and the CDS Parliamentary Group, your criminal record is not clean, and it is not clean with the lead you had in the Constitutional Court of the measures that wanted to become final in order to attack the workers and in order to attack the workers of the Public Administration in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, since you have told me about the registration, let me tell you that the public servants, the Portuguese, are not arrested in the past, but have memory. And since you only have 16 seconds, I'm going to be very direct. He spoke of workers' rights, praised the work of public officials, the measures you have implemented in the country and the efforts they have made to re-enter the Darkland. I ask you: the country of the darkness with final cuts in pensions, with final cuts in wages, with the elimination of holidays for all workers, with the open door in requalification for forced layoffs in the Public Administration, with cuts in pensions for all workers in this country, with attacks on trade unions, like, indeed, we have heard here in this debate, or, for example, with the increase of working hours for public officials,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... reducing, indirectly, salaries in the Public Administration? I would like to know if, in your opinion, that is the way forward to value workers in general and public administration workers in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u57	In reply, Mrs. Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u58	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, in order to reassure you, and because you are a little bit confused about the path of the PSD over the past four years, in which you recovered the country from the bankruptcy left by the Socialist Party, let me tell you three aspects that can help you clarify any doubts you have. Firstly, the PSD will only enter into very clear and objective proposals that ensure full respect for workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u60	But who gave him the punishment to come here to say these things? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u61	Secondly, the PSD will only embark on a path that guarantees us a modern public administration, as the country and the Portuguese deserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u62	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. I would also like to tell you that any path that is followed must be a sustainable path for the Portuguese pocket and for public finances. Mr President, I hope you have clarified this because, as far as we are concerned, everything has been said. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u64	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adoption of this law represents the second act of a motion which this majority is counter-censing. The first act — it is recalled — took place here, at this very place, and occurred during the discussion of the revocation of the requalification regime. In short, the plot developed with the narrative that the requalification regime was very bad, a kind of monster, and that had had as creator this terrible and horrendous being that was the Government of the right-wing majority. History is reasonably well written, leading some hearts to constancy—and here, in Parliament, until there was some exaltation—but it does not, however, prove convincing, to be a good story, because in short, there are no answers to many questions. For example: if it was so bad the commitment of the previous government to the requalification regime, if it was so bad the commitment to the termination of employment contracts, if it was so much the mass exit of people from the Public Administration, as the Secretary of State said here, then why was it that the City Council of Lisbon and Antonio Costa, at the time, its President, were the authors who most resorted to terminations of employment in the Public Administration? Oh, my God! Antonio Costa, the « Good», the « sublime being », the « Genius » of this majority, had another life. After all, he touched the evil, so much so that he got excited and even ended up being the champion of the retirements to the workers of the authorities. The plot says nothing about this, but there are more questions: after all, was the right that created the mobility and requalification regime of public officials with a wage reduction? It wasn't! But, well, here, the narrator wins two different voices: the PCP and the Left Block say yes, that the PS has always been right, "the flour of the same bag", and the narrator, who writes the PS pen, does not know well what to say, has a mixture of shame and pride with this creation. After all, it was his government, the PS, where Antonio Costa was — again — precisely 10 years ago. Ten years ago, the mobility regime was established in Portugal, which had several phases, being a ‘requalification’ and which meant that certain civil servants of the Public Administration could be forced, against their will, to change their service and also to see their pay reduced two months after entering the special mobility phase.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u66	And what did the CDS do? It's getting worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u67	Well, it is with more questions than answers that we come into this second scene today, which has much less political intensity than the narrative manuals advise. On the one hand, the Government shares the diagnosis, which we have heard here, that the Public Administration needs flexibility, needs greater dynamism, less rigidity, needs reformism. It is noted that the criticism made by the Government, in the explanatory statement of this bill, to the previous regime of requalification is that it was inefficient and counterproductive. In other words, it takes another more efficient path to achieve the same goals. But after all, when it comes to legal mechanisms and instruments to pursue this path of modernization and reform of the Public Administration, the same Government now refers to a question of language, personal motivation, of union peace.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u68	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u69	In short, the government with this proposal is capitular, does not pursue any reforming momentum and, worse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u70	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u71	I will now finish, Mr President, although you haven't used that much time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u72	It was just to make sure you had heard, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was saying, the government with this proposal is capitular, does not pursue any reforming momentum and, worse, retreats more than 10 years on the way. It says — and the message of this law is this: “Do nothing if you fall into the grip of this regime, because if you don’t do anything, you still end up in a ‘study’ of any secretary-general, winning exactly the same and with the same status you would have if you were to fail.” [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is the message of this legislation! Of course, there is no denying that there is any momentum here, particularly the union. The difference between those who work in the public sector and who give up basically...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u74	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u75	...a reform of the state and a reform of the country. The third and last scene is missing: to realize what country is leading us. And, on this point, we have no doubt:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u76	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u77	... we will continue to fight for a State that is at the service of the country and for a country that welcomes all equally, whether the public sector or the private sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u78	Please conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u79	... and engage in innovation and renewal of the economy and public administration. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u80	The next item is a 27-second speech by Mrs Joana Mortagua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the CDS, I was confused, because I cannot answer, I do not understand whether the CDS does not like this proposal because it is too good or because it is too bad. But I wanted to rest the PSD, which is concerned about the problem of whether this regime will harm the workers who come to it. Now, if this regime ends with cuts and the possibility of dismissals, one thing is certain: these workers will certainly get better than they were. So two, one : or the PSD, which has now been resting because these workers are not in danger because of this rest, votes in favour of the regime, because the workers will get better, or then assume that what you want is to fire public officials and, consistently, vote against this regime. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u82	Mr Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, we conclude that the CDS, in fact, in terms of reasoned arguments, leaves much to be desired. I cannot even say anything else to Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia except for the following: the honourable Member said that he comes with more questions than answers and what I can tell him is that he can ask Mr Pedro Mota Soares, who was a minister and responsible for the greatest number of workers in the requalification, for sending 700 social security workers to requalification, what happened in the lives of people. But, honourable Member, on the part of the CFP, what we meant, and we say, is that the CFP was against special mobility, as it was against the requalification regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u84	The PCP is against everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u85	... because they never had the goal of valuing public services or workers. The CDS and PSD, in fact also, that is, have always been in favour of the requalification regime and the mobility regime because they knew that they had this goal. for our part, we know what commitment we have made with the workers. The requalification regime had to be repealed because the workers fought a lot against the injustice of that regime. We have often accompanied the most important struggles that have led to this decision we have taken here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u87	Therefore, the Secretary of State, on the part of the CFP, has a constructive position in the field of discussion on these matters, in particular to answer the questions we have put to her here because we believe that it is possible to improve this diploma with the commitment to value the public service and the rights of workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u88	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the discussion, in general, of Bill No 43/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). We have moved on to the second item on the agenda, which is part of the general assessment of Bill No 40 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the infrastructure and equipment programming law for the security forces and services of the Ministry of Internal Administration. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Urban Constance of Sousa, to whom I take advantage to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us make a brief presentation today of this law on the programming of infrastructure and equipment of the security forces, which is a priority of the Ministry of Internal Administration. The main objective is to modernize our internal security system by means of a multi-annual investment programmed in seven key areas for the mission of our security forces and services, such as infrastructures, cars, armaments and various equipment, such as individual protection equipment, operational support or specialized functions, without, of course, forgetting ICT systems (information and communication technologies). This is a law that we believe to be financially sustainable, because it has diverse sources of funding and contains a set of instruments that seem essential to us to ensure the continuity of investment, such as the transition of balances, the non-subjection to captivating and also flexibility in project management. This bill has been made in interaction with security forces and services and responds to a very significant part of the priorities and needs that these same forces have identified. Of course, they do not exhaust these needs, but also here, and to conclude, I would like to stress that this law, in itself, does not exhaust investment, since the security forces and services maintain, in their respective budgets, resources to deal with certain investments themselves. And it would end, so that we could have time to answer the clarifications of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, if you understand how to place them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u90	Mr Luís Marques Guedes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Internal Administration, as you know, the Social Democratic Party is, as it has always been, a defender of the existence of such a programming law. We have already supported the law passed by the Socialist Government in 2007 and are available to approve it too, because it seems to us to be an appropriate and correct measure. however, Mrs Minister, I must tell you that the history of application of the Programming Law is not famous, as you know. Between 2007 and 2012, the execution was less than 40% of what was estimated in the Law itself. That is why we have to look with some care at what the good intentions of this bill are now being presented to us. But, of course, we trust that the Government can place priority in the security forces and that it is possible, like what has happened in the history of the Military Programming Act, where the degree of implementation has remained over the last few years above 85 %, also this time, that when the Law we are examining passes to the letter in a manner may benefit from a type of implementation of the same degree. Thus, the Minister will surely count on the support of the Democratic Social Party. I would ask you just a few specific questions that need some clarification. First of all, on financing issues, the Government's proposal for legislation now innovates not only the proceeds of selling real estate but also the revenues of fines on roads. As far as this is concerned, there is no doubt in my mind about the possibility of seeking around EUR 10 million in this way. by my account, looking at the budget of the National Road Safety Authority (ANSR ), at road fines level, and what is budgeted in 2017 for the ANSR, in this area is about EUR 28 million, a third of the revenue will correspond to around EUR 10 million. Now, EUR 10 million, they make about 10 % of the ANSR budget. The first question you would leave to Mr. Minister is whether it was properly appreciated the impact that this would have on the functioning of the ANSR. The second and last question I put to you concerns the implementation. I draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that the PSD does not realize why, contrary to the LPM, the Military Programming Act, which clearly states that the responsibility for execution is a political responsibility committed to the Minister of National Defence, in this bill, of programming infrastructure and equipment for the security forces and services of the Ministry of Internal Administration, if it commits this responsibility to the MAI Secretary-General ( Ministry of Internal Administration ). This seems to us to be wrong, and I therefore ask the Minister if she is available so that, in her specialty, we will match this to what is in the Military Programming Act. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u92	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u93	Mr President, Mr. Luís Marques Guedes, thank you for your questions. As regards the issue of fines, the product of fines, only 20 % shall be assigned to this law. We believe that the value is less than EUR 5 million over five years. Therefore, it is not exactly a third, i.e. 20 % of revenue will be generated. With regard to the question of the MAI General Secretariat, what we want to ensure is a certain flexibility in the management of these investments by a third entity which is absolutely independent, more technical, of all the management of these investments on a daily basis. We therefore do not follow such an option of direct political accountability by the Minister, first by providing the General Secretariat, through its infrastructures, in order to enable better, flexible, constant and technical management of all the programming of these investments. It is a political option, I confess. Political accountability will always exist. First, because we also lost the analysis and evaluation in the medium term and, in the end, will allow, among other things, to evaluate its degree of execution. But I have the greatest commitment — not just me, but the whole country will have the greatest commitment — in which the degree of implementation of this law is as high as possible, preferably of 100 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u94	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u95	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The PCP has always alerted to the need, having fought for several years in this regard, of an investment programming law in security forces and services. In fact, the first programming law is partly based on the initiative and contribution of the CFP in its parliamentary intervention. So, after the creation of the first law—which actually came from our initiative— it is important to say that it was created for its non-implementation. At least that's the feeling we have. And the first programming law that came up did not have the expected results due to weak execution. The truth is that PSD and CDS-PP have shut down investment programming. However, the CFP did not give up, and the need to resume a law that programmes and implements investments in security forces and services is clear in the successive legislative initiatives presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party in the X and XI legislatures. Therefore, Madam Minister, we welcome the introduction of a law which, within five years, plans the necessary, urgent investments in security forces and services. However, Mrs Minister, the less happy experience, both in the security forces and services, both in the law of military programming, demonstrates in a clear way that between the role of everything and the reality performed there is a gigantic, abysmal difference. While we agree with the creation of a programming law, we therefore warn that this is not enough, so the challenge goes through the effective implementation of investments, i.e. by moving from role to concrete reality. There are also, Mrs Minister, some questions we wanted to raise that have to do with doubts that the bill raises. The first question concerns the investment map. Looking at the priorities set out in the investment map, we realize that the first priority is to strengthen information and communication technology systems. For the first year, around EUR 60 million is allocated, and in the total of five years it is EUR 252 million, i.e. more than 50 % of total investments are intended for information and communication technology systems. Only then do the infrastructures, with 101 million allocated, and the cars, with 62 million euros. We know that there are serious problems with aging cars. In fact, recently a news report reported the dire state, for example, at Penafiel's GNR (National Republican Guard ) post, where there is only one operational car for the whole post, which creates grueling operational difficulties. We know, Mrs Minister, and we have come to note this same difficulty, that there are serious problems in the infrastructures of the security forces and services, where there are urgent investments to improve the working conditions of the agents and improve the conditions in which the service is provided to the community. So, Mrs Minister, we are questioning why this option, this primacy of investment in information and communication technology. We are not in this Chamber saying that this investment should not be made, but we are questioning why this primacy and this difference in the amount, in relation to this investment, rather than being made in the infrastructures and cars as well as in the necessary personal equipment. A second problem which we want to point out in this bill concerns the sources of funding listed, in particular the use of part of the revenue resulting from the fines and fines applied by security forces and services. This option may convey a wrong idea of the objectives and purposes to which fines and fines are proposed. It was important to note that this did not happen, that is, there was no feeling in the community that a part of the action of security forces and services aims directly to revert to their own. It is a feeling that does not correspond to reality, we know that this is not the intention — or that it is probably not the intention — of the Government, and therefore it is important to make sure that the same question is addressed. Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to say that, in the general context, despite these aspects, which is important to improve in the field of discussion in the specialty, the legislative initiative goes in a positive direction, and therefore deserves the favourable vote of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u96	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u97	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: With regard to the proposal that the Government here brings a law on the programming of infrastructure and equipment for the security forces and services of the Ministry of Internal Administration, the Block of the Left accompanies the need, in addition to the urgency, recognized in this programming law. It has already been said here that it has exercised a programming law between 2007 and 2012 which has experienced quite obvious difficulties in its implementation and that it has left, at the time of its operation, an empty investment in requalification, intervention and modernization of the equipment and infrastructure of the security forces and services. As a result of this faulty planning in the previous Programming Act, with funding that was dependent on various criteria — such as the reduction of effectiveness — or even as a consequence of what happened in the previous legislation, with the conclusion of protocols by the PSD/CDS-PP Government, for the construction of infrastructures, teams and quarters without any budget forecast, which have not passed from mere propaganda announcements without any practical effect, we have the reality that is in view of everyone today. It has already been mentioned in this plenary that there is a lack of cars and that its state of degradation, as well as individual protective equipment, is enormous. There are accidents that are not soon replaced, with much of them over 10 years of age. for installations, the state of degradation is also quite worrying. There are several high-degradation facilities, which undermine not only the health and safety of professionals who work there, but also the users, the people who move there and which negatively conditions the provision of services to the population. There are teams that operate in housing buildings, facilities of the security forces that still do not have a specific room for assistance and support to the victim, for example. There are several facilities, several teams without access for people with conditioned mobility, no longer to mention the high number of teams and various facilities and buildings that still have fibration plates. Examples of degradation are not lacking, from public service teams, as well as buildings and structures that are not open to the public but where most of the time it works, a large number of professionals, police. There are many examples of completely degraded buildings. On the other hand, there is a need to reorganize services, to make adequate and in-depth planning in order to make what already exists profitable, because we have, for example, buildings such as the headquarters of the Lisbon Metropolitan Command, which cost more than EUR 1 000 000 per year in rent or the building of 31. the Squad, in Spain Square, condemned to demolition, where millions were spent in remodeling, being called the model team, which served for the photos. It is therefore absolutely necessary for serious planning to be based on strict mapping of needs, but it also takes account of existing waste and thus enables it to yield much more efficiently what has been done so far, as well as the resources and resources already available. The Government, moreover, refers precisely to this in its proposal and speaks in the careful raising of the needs of the infrastructure and equipment of the security forces. But in an interview with the social communication, the Secretary of State for Internal Administration acknowledged that the MAI, having the notion of the investment that will be made in relation to armaments and equipment — that was a few days ago — has only knowledge of the volume of the main works, not yet everything is decided. It is therefore necessary to ask whether this careful survey of needs should not be completed in order to ensure that this multiannual plan runs smoothly and does not hinder the implementation of this programming law. Finally, I also wanted to raise concerns about sources of funding. Here, specifically, we have talked about the revenue derived from fines for road counter-ordination, which can be understood as more an incentive to hunt for fines, i.e. as a counterparty to have renewed, modernized equipment and infrastructure from a certain amount of fines. I would like to get these answers to these questions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u98	Mr Luís Marques Guedes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a new speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to record the timely amnesia of the Communist Party and the Left Block which in 2007 voted against the Law on Programming the Infrastructure and Equipment of the Security Forces, both in general and in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u100	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u101	What about the PCP initiatives?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u102	Now welcome! It is another toad that swallows, but I must say that this is a benign toad that will not cause you any indisposition. [[PSD applause.]] But it was good to be consistent with your past and not come here to try to rewrite the story, as the days go by. You voted against the proposed programming law in 2007, both in general and in specialty! Welcome now, if you come to vote in favour. Mrs Minister, I would like to make a correction to what I would certainly say on the issue I put to you on the National Road Safety Authority. in your diploma, in addition to 1 / 5 of the fines relating to point (b) of the diploma of road offences, in point (c ) is 1 / 3 in respect of what is the revenue of the ANSR. I therefore ask the Minister — obviously I hope that this has been duly guarded — whether this withdrawal from the budget of the National Road Safety Authority will not cause — I hope it will not — problems of operation and operationality to the National Authority itself. Mr President, secondly, and lastly, because I have no more time, I have noted your explanation of the issue of amendment which now arises in this law on political accountability, but I must say to you, with due consideration, that I disagree with what you have said. One thing is the political definition, which is always political, even because it is made in a legal diploma approved in this House of the Republic, of which are the measures to be taken for the re-equipment and the renewal of security forces infrastructures, another is the bureaucratic and administrative responsibilities in the execution of tenders and in the promotion of these costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u103	Thank you for finishing, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u104	I'm done now, Mr. President. Political responsibility must continue at the political level, as is the case with the Military Programming Act. The Military Programming Act has an express article saying that it is up to the member of the Government responsible for defending the direction and supervision of what is in that Law. This should also happen with regard to internal administration. We shall see this in the specialty and I hope that there will be an opening of the Government in this regard, Mr Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u105	Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u106	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries : The bill we are considering, called the Infrastructure and Security Equipment Programming Act, is basically the implementation of a commitment contained in the XXI Government Programme. The option for multi-annual planning is a practice that we welcome because, in fact, it allows for forecasting and security and allows for a guarantee of public investment. Moreover, this is also the way to a necessary response to the modernisation of the security system. Law No. 61 / 2007, of 10 September, which took effect in the years 2008 to 2012, and which was an initiative of the Socialist Government in which the current Prime Minister protected the portfolio of internal administration from 2012 onwards. I record Mr Marques Guedes' reference to accession to the principle, but this is a theoretical accession, because he did not actually have the opportunity to practice in those four years. In fact, it was found that investment in the security forces and their re-equipment was not the one that required it. Today, we are doing this debate and taking up what is a priority: investment in forces and security services. More than security, the perception of that same security is an asset of invaluable value in a society. The fact that Portugal today is a country recognized as one of the safest countries is an asset, an essential immaterial value that we must preserve. In addition, in many of the economic activities — which include tourism and, in particular, foreign investment and its collection — security is a factor that we cannot in any way question. Today, in this bill, the stated values, the EUR 450 million planned for the five years with an annual investment forecast in the order of EUR 90 million are sure indicators that investment in security is a priority, the modernisation of security forces and their equipment is a priority of this Government. I would also like to highlight two aspects which seem important to me, namely investment allocated to new technologies and information technologies. This is essential today in security forces that want to be effective and that fulfil the function of modern times. But I also want to highlight the investment in armaments, personal protective equipment and infrastructures and cars. I am referring to another very important point, as has already been pointed out by the Minister: these priorities have been defined with the security forces, i.e. they are consensual within our security system. I would also like to mention some aspects which are still important and which mark this option and this law, in particular the designation of sources of financing and the provision of revenue, the guarantee of the transition of balances, the exclusion of appropriations from this Act, the possibility of multiannual commitments, as well as the joint hiring, evaluation and implementation of the programming, as well as its revision. These are aspects that we cannot neglect in the success or failure of this law. I shall conclude with the conviction that the approval of this proposal will allow the internal security system to be modernised, providing it with the necessary means. Portugal is a safe country, recognized as such, where people, national and foreign, feel safe. The existence of properly equipped, modern and effective security forces and services is a national imperative. The Government's bill, in the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, is a decisive contribution and step towards achieving this objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u107	Mr Telmo Correia spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u108	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we have to say about this law on equipment programming by the security forces is that this is of course a subject whose object, soon at the outset, we do not deserve to disagree. It is that if there is a party that has always defended the need to equip, and to equip well, the security forces were the CDS, as it is evident. So let us not disagree on this matter, until we have never shared with some ideas of parties that were able to defend that security forces men should walk unarmed, if that were the case, because that would be better and more friendly to the citizens. That was never our perspective. On the contrary, we always defend good equipment and, even in difficult situations, we have always been with the security forces. This, therefore, is a subject which, at first, does not deserve our disagreement. Secondly, we do not deserve disagreement either because, as has been said and recognized in some way, even by parties who are supporters of this government, the law does not guarantee us great compliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u110	It is a relatively vague law and therefore it is difficult to disagree about it, and being in itself vague does not provoke a very firm, not very fierce opposition, even if it is, of course, our function and obligation. There are, however, some questions that seem interesting to us. Firstly, if this law, in fact, provided for a five-year planning and a five-year programming and equipment, it would make sense, perhaps, even to have a framework law. It is one of the issues that has been raised around this matter, we also think about it and we ask why we do not have a framework law on this subject. On the other hand, with regard to programming, we found that, perhaps, it made sense, in particular, in the matter of equipment, in particular safety material, armaments, etc. , that the largest investment was already made, which is not necessarily in the law either — depends on the headings, as is evident, but does not generally occur. Perhaps it would make sense, given the current moment, that the largest investment was already made. It's a second reflection. Thirdly, I am referring to the question of the revenue relating to this same programme. If the security forces' equipment is important and indispensable, we find that the financing of the same equipment — or re-equipment, if we want — of the security forces depends in part on fines, fines or even charges. The fines and fines obviously have a problem: firstly, we cannot guarantee that the actual revenue will be that, and secondly, we run the risk of creating in the citizens the idea of 'well, now to pay this programming law we will have a fine hunt' — to use a popular expression — which can cause some concern, as is evident. On the other hand, even including fees, which are of the many rates and taxis that exist, such as airport and others, they may not guarantee financing. In other words, the question is whether it should not be the State budget, in particular the MAI budget, to finance this same matter. With regard to the facilities and equipment, we have asked the Minister on this matter several times and the Minister has answered us here and there, talking about the most urgent cases. We believe that it would be useful for Parliament, in particular, to have a more detailed information on this subject, i.e. a list of programming, saying, for example, that this work begins at such a time, that it is planned to end there, when the equipment will be purchased, how many cars and why, even to understand why money is spent on new cars and, at the same time, such a high amount of money in car repair. This is a requirement that seems reasonable to us, even because this law, unlike others and contrary to the general budgetary rule, allows the balances to pass, which does not give us an effective guarantee of compliance, i.e. if it has been done, if it has not been passed to the next year. Therefore, the executions—and this is not exclusive of this government, we have already seen it with several governments and with several majorities—in this matter, they fall short of what is planned and programmed. This is a generic reference from this point of view, and it is perhaps the last requirement I would like to make in this matter until, Mr President, time is running out. I will conclude by saying that, of course, we have raised these doubts, but there is no way of being in frontal opposition to this matter, until we find it important that there is a programming law, but it seems to us especially important, as we have said so many times, that it does not call into question the admissions of agents that are so necessary. The budgetary balance cannot be made at the expense of the admission of agents, which is fundamental, and above all agents who, in addition to entering the security forces, are not well equipped, because we know that they are often real heroes, who, with their lives, guarantee the safety and protection of the entire population and of all Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u111	To reply, you now have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the issue of fines, which is Article 3. the fact is that a percentage of 100 % of the fine product, which goes to the security forces, is allocated to these purposes. That is to say, we love — and the honourable Members. Members have this information, because I asked them to distribute it at 2015 levels, that the revenue of five-year fines to this end be less than EUR 4 million. If the PSP receives 100 in fines from the ANSR ( National Road Safety Authority ), 20 will have to be recorded for this investment and not spend on anything else. Point (c) refers to the fine product that originally went to the civil governments — which, in the meantime, were extinct — and will now be recorded for this purpose. So, I wouldn't see things as dramatic as being a bottom-up hunt. As you have had the opportunity to see, at 2015, 72% of the funding is provided by general revenue, but it is necessary to record some sort of revenue for this purpose, on the ground that they are spent on other, less essential purposes. As it is also necessary to ensure the transition of balances, under the penalty of failure to carry out the work, because the end of the budget year is coming and the money that has not been spent on that work will be spent on something else, which is secondary. That is why, basically, what is intended is to provide the MAI, or the security forces and services, with an instrument that allows multi-annual and long-term investments to be carried out, and this instrument seems absolutely appropriate to us. As for the question of the beginning or the end of the works, I must say that it would be absolutely irresponsible—unless I had an enormous foresight capacity—to know whether, starting today the procedure for, for example, the territorial position of Cocujães, it would end on such a day...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u113	Mrs. Minister, ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u114	This depends on the absence of any contests, depending on the contests, the execution projects, the contractor, etc. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Mr President, unfortunately, I do not have that foresight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u115	Mrs. Members, having concluded this item on our agenda, we move on to the following point, which is part of the joint assessment, in general, of Bill No 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Co-operative Code and the projects of lein.o 75 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Excludes the existence of investor members and ensures the democratization of the functioning of cooperatives by the first amendment of the Co-operative Code approved by Law No 119 / 2015 of 31 August 2015 and by ensuring compliance with Article 82. paragraph 4 ( a ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ( BE ) and 356 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Co-operative Code, ensuring effective respect for the cooperative principles of the International Cooperative Alliance ( CFP ). To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The cooperative movement, in its richness and diversity, and with its unique identity that characterizes it, is one of the most solid foundations of the solidarity economy and, in a broader sense, a fundamental pillar of the social sector and of Portuguese civil society. It has deep historical origins, well known, have roots and strong popular implementation and in different regions of the country and different sectors of activity has been able to respond to the needs of many thousands of people who join and mobilize in these organizations for the pursuit of non-market and solidarity economic purposes. But it also has important challenges, some specific ones, others shared with different sectors of civil society and even Portuguese society and economy as a whole. This is why the interests of the country that the cooperative sector has the right conditions to develop even more, to adapt to the demanding contemporary challenges that it has before it and that it is able to respond positively, in a framework of change and innovation, but without ever calling into question the identity and distinctive character that makes it unmistakable and irreplaceable in the third sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal for a law which the Government submits today to the Assembly of the Republic respects these premises. Without wanting to resume the broad and deep debate and, indeed, recently, on the model of the Co-operative Code, which took place at the time of the adoption of the Code, the proposal that we present is looking for only and exclusively to give it operationality in some relevant aspects, such as the counter-order national. To this end, clarifications are made to correct inaccuracies and lapses detected in the approved version. It is important to remember that, at this time, the adoption of the Cooperative Code was largely parliamentary, even though more than a political force had been raised, legitimate issues on some of its most innovative aspects. It is also important to stress that the review of the 2015 Cooperative Code involved an intense and prolonged dialogue with the sector itself and also took into account the work carried out by the drafting committee for the revision of the cooperative law, with the representation of the Portuguese cooperative confederations, CONFECOOP ( Portuguese Cooperative Confederation ) and CONFAGRI ( National Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives of Portugal ). It is in this framework that the Government submits this bill to the Assembly of the Republic. We hope that it will contribute, through improved regulation of regulatory instability, to the modernization of the sector and, therefore, of the cooperative movement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u117	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr Paulino Ascension has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment: The bill presented by the Left Block seeks to reverse the amendments to the Cooperative Code that offend the Constitution and the cooperative principles and which were introduced by the previous majority in 2015. This is a matter of principle and the principles are not subject to convenience or political opportunity or practical usefulness assessments. The principles are respected. I welcome the CFP for its draft law, which accompanies us in these concerns, and I regret that the proposal that the Government brings to us is no more than a declaration of ratification which essentially leaves everything to remain in the same. I hope that the PS Parliamentary Group will show the necessary openness to take up our proposals, which are the proposals of the cooperative movement represented here today. The cooperatives were recognized by UNESCO as the immaterial heritage of humanity last December 2, and I would like to welcome this decision today in this House. This recognition is the basis for correcting the legal aberration that was introduced in 2015. The cooperative principles are recognized in the Constitution and cannot be distorted by a vulva law. The concrete questions that motivated the introduction of plural voting figures in an investor member found a solution in the previous wording of the Cooperative Code. Democracy itself is a sort of cooperative. Will we also, in the short term, see a proposal for the introduction of a plural vote in democracy in favour of investors? It is unjustifiable to decharacterise this figure of cooperatives in aspects that are fundamental, nor does it make sense to approach this figure of commercial societies that would cause cooperatives to lose all their usefulness. But the logic of the 2015 amendment was that of bringing the cooperatives closer to the market logic of commercial companies, but our society does not suffer from a market deficit, on the contrary it suffers from overmarketing. This logic, which creates rich instead of wealth, instead generates exclusion and poverty. This submission to the markets, the increasing mercantilization of the life of social relations is one of the key factors of the crisis in which we live and therefore the remedy cannot be more market, rather the opposite. The cooperatives of the social economy in which they are inserted are not merely a means of recycling those excluded from the market to train them and return them to the same system to be the target of new exclusion, in a hellish cycle. But this is the vision of the PSD and the CDS on the right, which says it has helped the social economy in the last four years. It helped her in an extraordinary way, it must be recognised: it gave her more customers, creating more poorer to feed and expand the business of charity, but without ever questioning the deep reasons of poverty, without wanting to change the system that generates exclusion and, at the same time, new millionaires. The cooperatives of the social economy are a factor of emancipation, they represent an alternative economic model that puts the focus not on profit but on people, their needs, social responsibility and environmental sustainability. The cooperatives of the social economy are economic — the whole economy is social — and should not be referred to a ghetto, with specific but limited support programmes. They should have access to all forms of support that are available to businesses and, as they are economies, should be framed in the government's office and, in the distribution of parliamentary committees, in the area of the economy and not in the area of social security and employment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u119	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP approach is very clear and objective — a private company is a private company, a cooperative is a cooperative. They are different sectors, with different objectives and principles. There is an essential basis for principles and values of cooperativeism that we cannot but affirm and defend and that, in our view, must be at the heart of the political options in this discussion: the principle of 'a cooperative, a vote' in the first degree cooperatives, the accession of the co-operatives by their participation and the activity of the cooperative to meet their needs and not by the expectation of remuneration for their investment, ensuring their political independence in relation to external financiers. These principles were enshrined in the spirit and letter of the Co-operative Code which was unanimously approved in 1996 in the Assembly of the Republic. There were already differences, different perspectives within the cooperative movement, but the debate developed in this process allowed for building consensus and reaching a final text that deserved the support of all. This was in 1996, because in 2015, unfortunately, the situation was different. In 2015, the approval of the new Cooperative Code by the PSD and the CDS-PP, with the support of the PS, introduced a contradiction between national legislation and effective respect for cooperative principles, recognized as defined by the International Cooperative Alliance, as well as the constitutional right to freedom of establishment of cooperatives, provided that these principles are respected. On the other hand, a limitation has also been introduced on the cooperative initiative, on the right to elect and be elected, in accordance with the will of the co-operatives. What in practice was pointed out, with the vote of these parties, was that any entity, individual or collective, without any motivation in the cooperative initiative, could condition its activity, determining and ensuring the remuneration of its capital. This, in addition to calling into question the principle of democratic management and economic participation, undermines the principle of autonomy and independence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, what should effectively contribute to the development of the movement and cooperative initiative will be the promotion of policies that, in accordance with the Constitution, discriminate positively against cooperatives: facilitate their access to finance and enable their self-financing, tax exempting their results exclusively applied and invested in the cooperative; technically support the creation and development of cooperatives and promote the principles and cooperative initiative. Access of cooperatives to investors, where appropriate, should be accompanied by improved economic information, monitoring, participation and even intervention without the right to vote in the assemblies, which is already provided for investment securities subscribers or cooperatives' obligations. These are central issues that cannot be absent from the discussion on cooperatives. We cannot agree that a legislative process to amend the Co-operative Code is a lost opportunity and that it becomes a mere formal error rectification operation, essentially maintaining everything in it. on the contrary, we must go to concrete, discuss fundamental issues, listen to the sector and work together for legislation, not which distorts, but which actually enshrines the cooperative principles of the International Cooperative Alliance. It is in order to contribute to this process and this debate that the CFP presents this bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u121	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we appreciate three legislative initiatives aimed at the first amendment to the Co-operative Code, approved in August 2015, through Law No 119 / 2015. That is why this is the opportunity to welcome the Portuguese cooperative movement on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group and its very important intervention in several sectors of national life, with particular relevance in the economic and social sectors. In particular, I welcome the leaders present in this Assembly of the Confederation of Intraoperative Labour Cooperatives of Portugal, who also have a very important role, because of their role in the cooperative movement. Affirming and developing the mission, values and cooperative principles, the cooperative movement has built a true alternative path to existing organizational, intervention and management models, affirming the need to build more democratic, more solidarity, more involved and responsible communities and therefore more sustainable. As I said, we appreciate three legislative initiatives. One first, Bill No. 44 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) submitted by the Government, which proposes a set of amendments which make only corrections and corrections to the legislative wording of the Cooperative Code and which we consider to be evident in the need for immediate approval. And then, two bills, namely Bill No. 75 / XIII ( 1 ). a ), the Left Block, and draft law No 356 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) the CFP, which essentially aims at the repeal of two policy solutions introduced in the last revision of the Code, namely the creation of the investor member, members who only subscribe to the capital entries of cooperatives, and the abolition of the plural vote, attributed to the cooperative activity and to the capital subscribed by the investor members. They understand the subscribers of these initiatives that these two solutions violate the constitutional principles and cooperative principles formulated by the International Cooperative Alliance. However, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not, strictly speaking, share this understanding. Firstly, because the admission of the investor members and the plural vote was enshrined in the dependence of the autonomous initiative of the cooperatives, insofar as it depends on prior statutory forecasting and the approval of the general assembly of each of the cooperatives. Secondly, because the Co-operative Code sets mandatory limits for both the participation of investors and the plural vote. And thirdly, because the Co-operative Code does not allow investors and multi-voting cooperatives to block or control the decision of cooperatives. However, after one year of the implementation of this new Cooperative Code, we admit that it is time to start a balance sheet of the solutions enshrined in the new law, listening to the cooperative movement and analyzing the legislative results achieved so far, always in the spirit that cooperative principles and values are evolutionary and must adapt to the new realities and needs that cooperatives have to respond to.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u123	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies. Thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u124	We therefore believe that, in the context of this global analysis and this global balance sheet that we have to start here in the Assembly of the Republic, it is time to find innovative and participatory solutions that can, in fact, respond to the new challenges of the cooperative movement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u125	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Cooperatives have a fundamental and very important role in our country both economically and socially. For this reason, we always consider that the cooperative sector must continue to improve so that it does not decline in quantitative terms, either in qualitative terms, as has happened so far. It is that this decline has serious social implications, so especially in the most rural and interior areas of the country, we must continue to improve. It is our obligation, as politicians and legislators, to improve, modify and make this sector evolve for the common good, for the good of all. Look at this sector as a left ideological closure, which cannot be changed, is to make a mistake, and a serious mistake. The Co-operative Code was amended and approved in 2015, by a large majority in this Parliament after much discussion, in which the option of left-to-left parties was simply to say that no, that they wanted it to continue the same, all the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u127	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u128	This amendment aimed at economic competitiveness in collective terms, but also the social competitiveness of its associates, always in order to improve the position of small producers, something which, once again, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party did not understand, continuing to want everything the same, all the same. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] In addition, this amendment was made after hearing several cooperatives, the federations and the cooperatives, who, until today, continue to hear and have not once expressed any opposition to this law; on the contrary, they consider that the path is the right way and goes to meet a greater competitiveness of this sector in the market that involves it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u129	You have a temporary amnesia!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u130	... as it was concluded at a recent meeting held at UTAD (University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro ) between Portuguese and European cooperatives, where it was clearly stated that the cooperative status, despite having been changed, continues to limit the decision-making of strategic and current management, which in many cases hinders its sustainability. We do not understand why BE and the PCP want to return to a past that weakened the cooperative sector, a past that created more difficulties for small producers. And I wonder if, indeed, the Mrs. Members heard the sector, co-operatives, cooperatives and federations. Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u131	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u132	Or is this change just for the sake of your party forces?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u133	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u134	Your stubborn desire to reverse everything that does not go against your ideological ties, even though it often means improving people's lives, shows that they will never be parties to improvement and evolution, will only be what they have shown: parties to reversal, reversal of economic improvements and reversal of social improvements in this country. Mrs. Members, I hope that today all those who have fought for changes in cooperatives and in this sector are alert to this debate to understand exactly the intention of the parties on the left in this matter, to realize that what is at stake is not to improve this sector, but rather to defend the interests of these parties. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u135	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear that this matter relating to the Co-operative Code and the social economy can tend to generate broad consensus. The proof of this is that the Social Economy Basics Act was unanimously approved in this House. And there was also, in the history of the adoption of this legislation on cooperatives, a commitment in the past to make it as comprehensive as possible. From now on, there has been a change of method in relation to what was the process of approval of the current Code. It is, then, that the Government worked with cooperatives or institutions that represented cooperatives, made a broad hearing, involved several institutions and, when it came to having a document, did not hurry to present it to the Assembly and to hold it to the vote. Instead, he handed it over to the different parliamentary groups, allowed the parliamentary groups to work on this proposal and, at the end of this work, when a decision had to be made, there were parties that did not receive what was the widely majority expression, but there was, however, a large majority that was reached here in this House. So what we are looking at here is precisely the reverse process. Some parties, possibly contacting some realities that are closer to them, are hastening to present a diploma without an extended hearing and, in this spirit of imposing the vision of one to the great majority, the Government also presents a proposal which, however, we recognize, is a proposal that, essentially, as has been said here by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, is intended to rectify aspects of detail and drafting of the previous Code. The position of the CDS on this matter is very clear: we do not have large confessional dogmas on this. What we think is fundamental is that legislation is the expression of the reality of cooperatives and that there is no will, of them or others, to impose their vision on the plural, diverse reality that exists in cooperatives and that is desired by these cooperatives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u137	It is that those who argue that the current legislation is unconstitutional because it opposes the principle of democracy and wants to impose on cooperatives a certain view that these cooperatives do not wish for themselves a highly contradictory position, which makes no sense. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u138	The plural vote is devoted to cooperatives who want it for their reality, and do not impose this reality on anyone, to any cooperative, there is no cooperative that has to adopt that reality. Therefore, it is in the space of affirmation of each cooperative, in its diversity and in its reality, whether or not to choose it. And more: if you want to abolish the plural vote, it will be removed, because, in the matter of amending statutes, there is no plural vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u139	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u140	I will finish, Mr. President. So, in our view, there are no dogmas. There is openness, dialogue, willingness to listen to cooperatives, talk, listen, and adopt legislation that is as consensual as possible, without wanting to return to stories, ideologies and what does not concern the reality of cooperatives in their diversity. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u141	You have the floor for a new speech, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Member who spoke recently said that a year ago he did not hear any opposition to the amendment then imposed on the Co-operative Code. 'We have not heard any opposition' — this is what Mr Nuno Serra said, it is recorded. Now, this statement is very enlightening of what was the PSD's attitude during its governance: they did not listen to the opposition, they only listened to those you wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u143	We called the cooperatives here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u144	They only accepted, they only understood the opinions that were intended to support your measures. In fact, those who followed this subject with some rigour will know that last year there was no consensus in the sector, contrary to what happened in 1996; there was, yes, a difference. And you have opted for one side and one view, for the vision that puts the cooperative movement and the cooperative sector in the same terms as the private business sector could be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u145	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u146	I will finish, Mr. President. We do not agree with this mixture and this confusion. The principle of cooperation/voting is quite clear—that is what is enshrined in the cooperative principle and does not allow two readings. What we cannot agree with is that, in the name of democracy, they allow a vision that only understands cooperatives as one who looks at private companies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u147	To close this item on our agenda, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would just like to clarify the position of the Government on some of the issues raised and direct me directly to Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, which touched on a point which I find essential, to agree with you in part and at the same time to correct what I thought was an idea conveyed here. The Government has not joined any legislative vertigo to amend the Co-operative Code. What the Government is bringing to this House today is an attempt to make the 2015 Cooperative Code fully operational as soon as possible, because there were aspects which were detected, by inaccuracy or by lapse. However, it was necessary that, after the existing legal period so that those aspects which were detected as lapses could still be corrected, we could now have, as quickly as possible, the Code then fully operationally approved. in fact, we understand—and we fully share this idea—that, on the one hand, legislative stability is in itself a value, especially when the House was able to build not a consensus but a large majority of support for the Code in 2015 and, on the other hand, with such a sensitive matter and in which there are entities of civil society that represent the sector that were involved in a long and intense process of debate, the 2015 Code was a review made taking account of this work and then with a broad debate also prior to the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, any change in substance and substance to this Code should, in our view, follow a similar procedure. What we bring here today are issues, especially formal, to operationalize the 2015 Law. Moreover — and to give this note and this information to the House, which I believe to be important — that we, knowing that there are issues that are sensitive and relevant and that have been put here again today, we want to say that they have not reached CASES (Cooperative António Sérgio for the Social Economy) any complaints, any request for amendment to the 2015 Code, and, as you know, the representative entities of the sector, the confederations are seated in the CASES itself and can also trigger this process there. We do not have any information that this has happened, nor any complaints about the negative consequences of the application of this Code. So what we understand is that, at the moment, in terms of legislative amendment, what makes sense is to operationalize this Code. If there is a need and a desire to initiate a longer and more thorough process of revision of the Code, it will naturally be up to the political forces and the Assembly to initiate this process. But this does not seem to be the time, nor is it the procedure that the Government has chosen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u149	Mrs. Members, we thus close the discussion of Bill No 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and of the projects of lein.o 75 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 356 / XIII ( 2. ( a). of the fourth point of order of business is the assessment of petition No 40 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by Frederico Calado Cordeiro and others, against the extension of the maturity of the mandatory convertible securities ( VMOC ) of Sporting. Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating all those who have subscribed to this petition. But it is necessary to state the following: the subject of this petition refers to a credit transaction between private entities and this type of transaction is carried out in accordance with the risk management and analysis criteria, which should be accompanied by the regular functioning of all internal control bodies of the various credit institutions. Even if one of the entities was public—we will suppose, the General Deposit Box—is our understanding that this is a mere credit operation. And it is not incumbent, I would never compete with the shareholder or, in this case, with the guardianship, the Minister of Finance, call or send an e-mail saying that this credit operation should be done or that this credit operation should not be done. It is an act of management, pure and simple. at the end of that period, at the end of the term of office of that administration, the goodness or evil, competence or incompetence of the management that was exercised, but never credit operation the credit operation, may be evaluated. And for this reason we understand that the subject of this petition is not for the State, nor for Parliament, in particular. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u151	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Galamba, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party also welcomes the petitioners and has an understanding similar to that of Mr Duarte Pacheco, in that the matter contained in the petition transcends the competence of this Parliament and also the competence of the State itself. Neither the Government nor Parliament interferes with or participates in the management of any commercial society, regardless of its public or private nature. In addition to what Mr Duarte Pacheco has said, we can also say that there does not seem to have been a debt pardon, but only a normal credit operation, with an extension of an obligatory loan, without more. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u153	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, firstly, I would like to congratulate the petitioners, who have exercised a right that any citizen can exercise. from our point of view, as the honourable Members have already said. Mr Duarte Pacheco and Mr João Galamba, the matter in question in the petition is not the subject of direct or indirect competence of this Parliament, it is not the responsibility of supervision, it is not the matter in the opinion of the CDS Parliamentary Group, which justifies a legislative initiative. We understand, however, that the exercise of the right to petition is at the disposal of any citizen and may have other advantages than those directly resulting from the powers of Parliament, even if not access to information. It is therefore good that Parliament, by examining this petition and by appreciating it in plenary, giving it visibility — the fruit of the more than 4000 signatures that this petition has collected — may enable petitioners and citizens with information from public authorities who, in fact, have powers in this matter. in this sense, the CDS believes that Parliament has fulfilled its task of responding to citizens and that it is no longer up to it at this time. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u155	Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would also like to welcome the subscribers of the petition, the sending of the petitioner to Parliament and the commitment of the petitioners to the debate on credit operations, in this case of a bank institution which is under public control, even though the contract has still been made with Banco Espírito Santo. It is true that the Assembly of the Republic does not have instruments to intervene in this particular case, it is not within its competence, so little of the competence of the Government. It is true that it is legitimate to question the kindness or inadequacy of each of the bank's credit operations, but it is no less true that we can also question, in this particular case, the type of business in which the bank often involves making use of its main resource, which lies precisely in the deposits and guarantees with which it counts, because of the confidence that the Portuguese give it. Therefore, although there is no concrete form of intervention in this case and this is an operation in which, in fact, it is very likely that it would be better for the bank to extend the deadline than to convert those bonds into capital — given that the bank is under public control, we must respect this option — this may call us to consider the adequacy of the first business. Why does a bank that is not interested in having capital in an anonymous society agree to lend it money to exchange capital in case of non-compliance? This question also calls on us to think about how the bank uses our resources to do private negotiations. This is why Parliament can already legislate and the CFP has proposed several times to legislate, in particular in order to tighten up the conditions for public control of the bank. Unfortunately, that has not been possible until today. Let us hope that these cases will also contribute to our understanding that the money that is in the banks and is borrowed, even though through a contract between private parties, is indeed the money of the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u157	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: BES has granted several credits to many companies, many of these credits have been doubtful in nature, many of them have actually been bad business. And in the portfolio of difficult collection credits are many of these companies, some bad business, others not, certainly, some of a dubious nature, others not, certainly, but that cannot be charged. Among these credits that cannot be charged is a Sporting credit. We speak of a part of EUR 55 million in legally convertible securities, i.e. obligations that automatically become capital, if the loan is not paid in time, which Sporting gave to BES and Millenium, in this case, in 2011 as part of the restructuring of a debt already passed. Having not paid your debt, Sporting has agreed with the banks its extension for another 10 years and the payment of more half a percentage point of interest. Otherwise, both the New Bank and the Millenium would become-CL- major shareholders of Sporting. It was a management decision that the New Bank accepted this business so that it would not become a major shareholder of Sporting. We understand that 'cold cat of cold water is afraid' and that the past is full of bad examples of favors, bad business that then weighs heavily on taxpayers' pockets. And we also understand that there is a huge difference between large companies, which can restructure their credits, and small businesses or indebted families, which always carry the heavy hands of banks. Therefore, there is, yes, a feeling of injustice and it is legitimate, it is justified. Both matters can be dealt with in the Assembly of the Republic in its generic lines — the laws that guide banks, which are the strategic guidelines for public banks, which are the regulations of the bank and so on. With regard to a specific credit operation and its restructuring, there is in fact no matter falling within the competence of the Assembly of the Republic or directly of the Government. And, therefore, by understanding the generic arguments that cause and which motivate this petition and by complimenting its petitioners, it is fair to say that there is nothing the House can do in the face of a concrete case between a creditor and a debtor in which there was an agreement for the restructuring of a credit. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-15.u159	Mrs. Members, we conclude the assessment of petition No 40 / XIII ( 1. ( a). of the fifth item on the agenda is in the script, without time allocated for discussion, the proposal of law No 35 / XIII ( 2. a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, adding several substances to Table II -A, so we end the order of business. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to announce tomorrow's agenda, beginning at 10 a.m. of the first point is the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 501 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a recruitment group for Portuguese gestual teachers ( BE ), 504 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese gestual language be included in the range of existing curriculum enrichment activities ( BE ), 505 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of teaching Portuguese gestual language to students and students in reference schools for the bilingual education of deaf students ( BE), 561 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by valuing the Portuguese gestual language ( PCP ), 564 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for a higher quality school for deaf students ( CDS-PP ), 567 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Development and promotion of the Portuguese Gestive Language ( PS ) and 569 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Guarantee of an inclusive school through the promotion of the gestural language ( The Greens ). of the second point is the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 523 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government enhance the use of all available mechanisms for water level control and acts to speed up the de-absorption of the Aveiro River ( CDS-PP ), 466 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dessorption of the Aveiro River ( BE ), 553 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the disabsorption of the Aveiro River and by the development of synergies with local structures, in particular with the port of Aveiro ( PS ) and 568 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent need to disintegrate the Aveiro River ( The Greens). The third point follows the discussion of draft resolutions 549 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Increase in national minimum wage ( CFP ) and 566 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a serious dialogue with the social partners to achieve a medium-term social partnership agreement on growth, competitiveness and employment including the updating of the national minimum wage ( PSD ). In the fourth point we will appreciate the Reports of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication (ERC) for the years 2014 and 2015. Finally, there will be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. I wish the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 17 minutes.]]
