ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Our agenda today has as its first point the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on the implementation of the National Reform Programme, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. The opening of the debate is for Mr Prime Minister. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Commission, in its report on Portugal released last week, stated, and I quote: « The National Reform Programme reveals a sufficient degree of ambition to address excessive imbalances and presents relevant measures to boost competitiveness and reduce private debt ». A programme, according to the European Commission, and I quote again : « takes note of the recommendations for the euro area, with an impact on the need to relaunch investment and ensure the sustainability of public finances ». The analysis made by the European Commission thus shows confidence in the effort and work that has been carried out during these first six months of government action. The qualification of Portuguese, innovation, the modernisation of the State, the enhancement of the territory, the capitalisation of enterprises and social equality form the basis of the National Reform Programme, a programme demonstrating the Government's commitment to a strategy to promote economic growth based not on low wages but on knowledge, innovation and modernization of the economic fabric. We are therefore convinced that, by applying in full and step by step the measures included in the National Reform Programme, Portugal will correct the macroeconomic imbalances and overcome the structural blockades that have hampered the development of the country. That is what we are doing, implementing the programme which marks the turning point in the face of a wrong competitiveness strategy, based on impoverishment, which has been continued in recent years and whose results we know, now assuming a policy that puts the country on the path to growth. For the modernization of the state, we launched the Simplex + programme on 19th, consisting of 255 measures that will have a very positive impact on the lives of Portuguese and business, saving in bureaucracy so that we can invest where it is essential, such as the enhancement of sovereignty functions or the promotion of the National Health Service and public school. The promotion of innovation in the economy will, in turn, gain new momentum with the programs that we will implement in the coming months. With the Startup Portugal programme, which will be launched in the first week of June, we intend to stimulate the necessary entrepreneurship for the emergence of innovative companies, which we want to be based on the diversification of our business fabric, essential to sustainable growth and the creation of qualified employment. Work is also under way in partnership with the main sectors of the Portuguese economy for the development of the Industry 4.0 programme, with which we will support companies preparing to take advantage of the business opportunities that will emerge with the new digital revolution. This economic strategy implies, in turn, a strong commitment to the qualification of Portuguese and scientific knowledge, in particular through the close link between education and science policy and business investment. Strengthening links between research and development institutions and companies is one of the key drivers of sustained economic growth that we want to achieve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is part of Plan 100, which, until 20 May, has already reached the companies (which until the beginning of this government had received only EUR 4 million) EUR 183 million from a total of 450 million planned by the end of this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The establishment of the Enterprise Capitalisation Mission Unit will present on 16 June a set of measures to solve the problem of financing for companies and the urban rehabilitation programme, an essential intervention axis for the enhancement of the territory, identified as one of the six strategic pillars in which solutions to the structural problems of the country should be based. Even this week, the Government has presented the Tourism Strategy for the next decade, a strategy that is central to the country's economic and social development, job creation and growth of our exports. in this program, which we put to the public discussion, we pointed out the main objectives and lines of action to dynamize the tourism sector until 2027 and enhance the attractiveness of Portugal as an international destination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are therefore implementing the programme to ensure sustained economic growth that puts the country on the path to progress. The medium-term strategic vision, which we have incorporated into the National Reform Programme and which, in such a way, has been welcomed by the European Commission, is even the way we need to stop spending time discussing every tenth and we can concentrate on what is essential, which is sustained economic growth in the medium term that meets the triple goal we have proposed: more growth, better employment and greater equality, ensuring a healthy and sustainable consolidation of our public finances. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Six months of a clear, coherent and stable political solution, which allowed us to express the unequivocal desire for change contained in the results of the 2015 legislative elections and create conditions to turn the page of austerity. A new political culture of government, fully in line with the centrality of the democratic and parliamentary debate, which makes a point of honor in respect of the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. A government committed to respect for the rights and the replacement of income of people and families, meeting basic criteria of justice and also encouraging the economy through increased domestic demand, without prejudice to the increased effort that the slowdown of the world economy requires us to grow in the external market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A government that addresses all Portuguese, without resorting to illegitimate and dangerous artificial divisions between young and old, assets and pensioners, employees and other workers, but rather mobilising all around a transformative agenda in the economic and social fields. These are the objectives that have guided and will continue to guide the action of the Government. This was the commitment we made six months ago and in which we remain fully committed. It wasn't always easy and we already knew it wouldn't be, because we didn't ignore the state in which the country was, but at every difficulty we always showed, and we'll always show, the ability to win. This resilience is making it possible to turn the page of austerity. It is this resilience that opens the way to make Portugal a more developed, fairer and more equal country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u3	We will enter the clarification phase and begin with the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u4	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you came to the House to express satisfaction with the report of the European Commission on the National Reform Programme that the Government has submitted, having mentioned some of the comments that have been made, culminating in one of its work, I assume, because this did not find in the report that the European Commission has made on this matter, saying that finally the country was correcting the wrong competitiveness strategy, based on impoverishment, which had come from the past. I want to tell Mr. Prime Minister that he continues to confuse things a lot. Indeed, our competitiveness strategy was not based on impoverishment... [[PS and BE laughter.]] ...the lack of competitiveness in the country is that it impoverished the Portuguese economy and impoverished the Portuguese, Prime Minister. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You're so wrong, then. As long as it continues to make some confusion with these concepts, Prime Minister, it is no wonder that the consequences of the new strategy that the Government is following produce the results that are in sight...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u6	...and not those who are supposed to intrude on the future, because we will talk about them as well. The results that are in sight are a growth below that we have recorded a year ago, when we look at the first quarter of this year, compared to the first quarter of a year ago. I mean, the growth rate of the Portuguese economy slowed down. More than that: as I have already said, it has slowed down enough so that, even if it has improved as it has not improved in the last 10 years in Portugal, it will still be very difficult to reach an annual target of 1, 2 %, as much as the one that was the government's perspective. But the results that have already been observed are all against what was expected and the government's promise: unemployment, which increased; employment, which was destroyed in the first quarter, with less than 48 000 jobs; exports, which interrupted a virtuous cycle of many years—especially exports of goods, of course, later we will know what concerns tourism—and, above all, investment, which fell from what was the recovery started in 2015. First of all, Mr Prime Minister, for these reasons, why are the results that the Government can observe in the economy and which result from its new strategic orientation not in accordance with what was the government's own promise? Secondly, if the European Commission is so satisfied with the PNR (the National Reform Programme ) and the way the Government intends to tackle the future of the implementation of the reforms, why do so many doubts remain, for example, in the opinion of the Portuguese Public Finance Council, about the ability to develop what efforts are to reduce the structural deficit? Thirdly, why is it that in the midst of such confusion we are talking about sanctions against Portugal? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u7	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u8	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, if you don't mind, let's start with the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u9	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u10	We are talking about sanctions because in 2015 Portugal failed to meet the reduction of excessive deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the first reason why we speak of sanctions. The second reason is because there is enormous political duplication in many European parties. as far as this government is concerned — and as you know, I will be suspected of supporting its policies — I say that the application of sanctions to Portugal as a result of its policies is unfair and I must beat us so that no sanctions are applied. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is unfair for what the Portuguese had to suffer with their policies, it is unfair because those who praised their policies so much cannot now punish the country for the bad results of their policies... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and it is unfair to apply sanctions precisely in the first year in which, for the first time, the European Commission foresees, in the greatest skepticism, that Portugal will always be below the threshold of the excessive deficit. It would be a triple injustice to apply sanctions to Portugal at the moment by the European Commission. But there is one thing I wanted to say to you, Mr : I say here the same as I say in Brussels and I do not say here that I do not want sanctions and I am in Brussels applauding the leader of the PPE who calls for sanctions to be applied to Portugal. [[Congratulations from the PS and the members of BE Jorge Campos, Jorge Falcato Simões and Pedro Soares.]] I am not saying here that I do not want sanctions and I am comfortable listening to Mr Schäuble saying that he wants sanctions against Portugal because, when he hears Mr Schäuble, I sometimes ask myself: does he not now realize that he wants to punish the results of the policy that he recently praised? Or was he praising that policy because someone had assured him that, after the excesses of 2015 to « see see », there would be in 2016 a pension cut of 600 million euros, which was hidden from the Portuguese at the time of the elections? [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] But, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, let's see if we understand each other and I would like to revive your memory. I am going to the Business Journal of October 25, 2011 to a piece signed by a suspicious journalist who was later his advisor, Eva Gaspar, and whose title is only this: We will only get out of this impoverishing situation. Who promised the impoverishment was Mr. Deputies! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I would like to say the following to you and to do justice to you: you said and did not change your mind, even last year, to all those who wanted to hear, at a conference, that the great grief that led to your legislation was not enough to have been able to reduce the costs of work in Portugal. I was not the one who invented it, that was his policy and his will. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, there is consistency in taking up the policy that has followed and has a little humility in talking about the economic results of others when, in terms of growth, their balance sheet is translated in a simple way: in four years, Portugal has returned 11 years; in four years of its government, employment has returned 20 years; in terms of investment, it has returned 30 years and even in terms of emigration has been able to return 40 years! Mr President, I would like to ask you a little bit of humility to evaluate the first six months of this government. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u11	You may proceed, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u12	Mr. Prime Minister, how much did Portugal return in 2011 when it arrived at the pre-bankrota? Now tell me how much we're going back? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] But let me ask you another question. Do you know any country that is on the brink of bankruptcy and that in the years of subsequent correction and adjustment, it is growing economically compared to previous years? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u13	Mr Prime Minister, do you think it is a serious way to start this debate by saying that, following the request for external aid, we would expect the Portuguese economy to grow? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u14	Mr. Prime Minister, we will discuss on the basis of assessments that can be provided by the concrete data that are observed. You, if you look at the past few years, have concrete data to observe. Do you know how much the structural deficit has been reduced in Portugal from 2010 to 2015? According to their government accounts, it was 6, 5 percentage points — 6, 5 percentage points! You are therefore talking to a former Prime Minister who has reduced the structural deficit by 6 to 5 percentage points in Portugal during the time it was. How much do you intend to reduce this year? This year! Say there, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]] But let me tell you what matters about the duality that is adopted in the speech inside and out. While I was Prime Minister I didn't make two speeches,... [[PS protests.]] ... but, Prime Minister, it seemed to me that the last time you visited Athens in Greece, you signed with your Greek colleague a kind of statement against austerity. Since the Eurogroup, still recently this week, has approved a hard austerity programme that the Greek Government has submitted, I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister what the position that Mr Finance and the Government have taken in this debate has been officially. Was it against this austerity program or in favour of this austerity program? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u15	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u16	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, what do I have to say to you?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u17	Let the cows fly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u18	In 2011, you believed and wanted to implement a theory based on the so-called « expansionist austerity ». [[PSD protests.]] The more austerity there was, the more the economy would grow. The more austerity there was, the less the economy grew. Looking at the unemployment figures to which we referred, what we have this year, I tell you the numbers: unemployment recorded decreased, compared to March last year, 2, 1 %; the number of unemployed young people decreased in the same period, 2, 9 %; the number of unemployed more than 12 months ago fell 1, 3 %. What we don't sell is illusions... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u19	They sold a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u20	No, we're not selling, no, sir. What we do not hide in unemployment numbers is false jobs, where you have wasted millions of euros that should have financed the economy to create quality jobs and not just to cover up statistics. [[PSD protests.]] That is the difference and it is the essential difference. And, honourable Member, the difference between Portugal and the other countries in the euro area today is to have a constructive position. In fact, when Greece, or any other country, presents itself at the European Council now, Portugal's position is not to say « more austerity for them, because that is what we are suffering! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” No, what we want is that there is a change of policy as a whole in the European Union and that covers all countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And it is for this constructive position that Europe must move forward. Mr President, I know that for you, Europe is reduced to the deficit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u21	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u22	... but for whom Europe is far beyond the deficit, what is most important today, I must tell you, is the violation of Europe's fundamental values, such as freedom of movement, Europe's inability to respond to the refugee crisis, Europe's inability to have an economic policy that promotes employment and growth. That, yes, is what I am concerned about in Europe and it is for this turn in Europe that we want to contribute. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u23	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u24	Mr President, I would like to know that Mr Prime Minister thinks there were 48 000 false jobs in Portugal. Keep that number, if you please, so we can talk about it in a few months, more by the end of the year. But let me just note that these 48 000 jobs, which actually existed because they were registered at the National Institute of Statistics, have disappeared. What Mr. Prime Minister is saying is that they have disappeared by the will of the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u25	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u26	...what's a little different, even, than I was supposed to have happened. I thought it had happened because of the progress of the economy, but they did not, after all, end up because the government thought they were a bad job and a false job. But, Prime Minister, I asked you a direct question for which I would like to have a direct answer. Did the Portuguese Government and the Minister of Finance support that hard austerity programme for Greece or oppose it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u27	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u28	Mr President, Mr Passos Coelho, we do not need to stop by the end of the year, we can now talk about this programme. [[PSD protests.]] The fundamental reason why these jobs began to end in 2015, during their government, was because the program that financed them ran out. But if you ask me if this was a good programme, I will tell you that it was not, that it was a wrong programme. We do not want to circumvent unemployment statistics, we want quality employment, long-term employment and non- precarious employment. That's where it's worth concentrating resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] On the other hand, Mr President, you are asking a question whose answer you know. It is clear that the programme has been approved by all countries, starting with Greece,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u29	I'm asking the ladies. Members of the PSD board who let Mr. Prime Minister finish his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u30	...and we would not be doing what you did in the past, which was to make life difficult for Greece. on the contrary, we were next to Greece, helping to solve the life of Greece. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u31	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u32	I know that when the Socialist Government approves austerity programmes for Greece it is helping Greece. [[PSD laughter.]] When the previous government approved programmes for Greece, Greece was prejudiced. We're clear! [[PSD applause.]] We already understand what « duality of speeches» means. [[PSD applause.]] [[Good!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u33	That's the mark of your speech, it's not mine, Mr. Prime Minister. I would like to understand very much, because it is not necessary to wait for the debate or for the evaluation of the National Reform Programme, from now on—when there are reforms to be assessed, because there are only intentions to reform —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u34	With you neither reforms nor pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u35	... if the government will remain in the next five months with the same inaction it revealed when dealing with the strike of the Lisbon port and the strike of the summerers. So far, what I have heard has been absolute references to the expectation that the problems will be solved by themselves — the government will not have to intervene! — but the truth is that it was already Mr. Minister of the Sea, just in December last year. However, exports felt, operators lost a lot of money, the Portuguese economy too, because they saw increased costs in seeking to ship exports through other more expensive possibilities and, of course, even the governments of the two autonomous regions had to complain about this problem. And this time the government has come to say there are limits. What are those limits, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u36	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a note that you may not remember. in the last three and a half years there were 33 warning strikes and 441 days of effective strike — 441 days of effective strike! in the last three and a half years there was more than one year of consecutive strike and, in relation to this situation, the statement that then you produced was that it was a conflict between private individuals, where the state did not have to enter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u38	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u39	Because we understand that it is a serious conflict for the economy and, as I said yesterday, the government will be fully committed to finding a solution, which justifies, in fact, the absence of the Minister of the Sea today at the Government's bench. As I said yesterday, everything has a limit and I can even add that the limit is even today, so that the parts can be understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u40	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u41	Mr President, let me just conclude by saying the following: Mr. Steps Coelho, the duality of you was not when you made the agreement for Greece viable, it was when for weeks you made the agreement impossible for Greece because you wanted the Greeks to pay... [[PSD protests.]] ... and had worse conditions for you to be able to return to Portugal and say that there was another government that was still suffering worse conditions than those that, by its own will, you inflicted on the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u42	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u43	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, first of all I would like to say to you that the Minister of the Sea said in December - and said loud and sound - the following: "The strikes in the port of Lisbon have ended". Now Mr Prime Minister says : « Today is the limit ». So we realize that the limits for the government are a matter of time. When problems are not solved by themselves, the government says: “What a bore! So we're going to have to do anything to see if we can solve them." This is the government's authority and that is why it can't solve problems before it makes them worse. [[PSD applause.]] By the way, Mr. Prime Minister, I didn't have an advisor named Eva Gaspar.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u44	You have to prepare for the debate better, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u45	I would like Eva Cabral, who was my advisor, to be appropriately quoted for the future, if any. If this is the case only, Mr. Prime Minister. Since Mr. Prime Minister may have some time when answering the questions put by the Socialist Party, I would like to ask him just one more question and say something. I find it unacceptable to your statement about the intentions that I would have as Prime Minister, or that my government would have, in relation to the Greeks. Mr. Prime Minister, here I want to say the following in a very clear way: nothing authorizes you to make a statement of these, which is even more false. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u46	But, Prime Minister, what does the government intend to do with the capitalization of the General Deposit Box?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u47	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u48	I shall conclude, Mr. President. Newspapers have talked about the need to capitalise on the General Deposit Box at almost EUR 4 billion, which is a value for which I find no explanation. If this were extrapolable to the rest of the financial system, we would think that the system would need a reinforcement of some EUR 20 billion, which will be a good way for you to be responsible for a serious crisis in the banking sector. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like you to start saying more than those which the newspapers publish with the consent of the Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u49	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u50	To ask questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u51	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I may, I would like to start this debate by referring to two strange events. The first strange event is the debate on sanctions that may or may not be imposed on Portugal by European Union officials. In fact, they are not responsible, because we have heard the President of the Eurogroup and the Eurogroup is an institution that does not exist in any European treaty, it is more or less an informal club, and therefore it is no more than a Dutch minister. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, a Dutch minister decided to threaten Portugal with sanctions and came a German minister and also said that sanctions were needed. in the middle of this, beyond the strange that is ministers of other countries who have no European responsibility unless they are ministers of other countries come to threaten Portugal with sanctions, it is twofoldly strange because they come to threaten Portugal with sanctions because they fear a new parliamentary majority and want to penalize it for the results of the old government and the former parliamentary majority. It doesn't make any sense at all! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to talk to you about another strange event. Economist Ricardo Cabral has brought us all to the attention of the Banco de Portugal report. The Banco de Portugal buys debt with the support of the ECB's programmes, Portuguese public debt, private debt, thus making interest and therefore profit. the profit of Banco de Portugal, this pays taxes to our country and pays dividends to the state, which is its shareholder. However, the last report shows that the Banco de Portugal has decided to increase provisions, in fear of future losses, with a criterion which is unknown. This increase in the level of provisions, which is higher than the above, makes the Banco de Portugal pay to the State in taxes and dividends less than EUR 100 million this year than it paid last year. In other words, the Banco de Portugal, when it could be contributing positively to budgetary consolidation, is contributing negatively. In fact, economist Ricardo Cabral made the accounts and the Banco de Portugal, instead of taking EUR 100 million, could be putting EUR 300 million for budgetary consolidation. The question we have to ask is: does the Government know this criterion of Banco de Portugal? Was it discussed? We do not want to believe that the Banco de Portugal is « rowing against the tide » of budgetary consolidation in Portugal. Therefore, it might be good to see why the Banco de Portugal has changed its criteria, as this makes a negative contribution to the deficit of 0,2 % of GDP. With all the European negotiations and difficult talks, this number is not just one. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u53	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I still have no precise information on the amount of the amendment. I know that it results in a European rule on the establishment of provisions on the basis of the debt acquired, but there is one thing I know: the comparability of the development of the Portuguese public deficit in these first four months of the year in relation to the same period of last year is greatly damaged by the fact that, contrary to what happened last year, dividends have not been paid to the State in April but are going to be paid to the State this month of May. This difference, in fact, is so simple that it is seen in numbers. If these dividends, even with these corrections, had been paid on the same date as last year, the deficit, rather than aggravating 59 million, would have improved 130 million. So when, at the end of this month, we have the comparison between May 2016 and May 2015, we will verify that these money is already in our accounts. And this is very important because there is now a desire to build the explanation of the threat of sanctions not because of past year's failure but because of possible misexecution this year. This year's misexecution is not confirmed, because the expenditure is evolving below the budget level, the tax revenue is rising above the budget level and, between the executed and the budgeted, the only relevant difference is that it is precisely because the Banco de Portugal has not paid the dividends in April and is going to pay them this month of May. Even with regard to staff expenditure, in which we have already incorporated two levels of replacement of salaries this year, we still have a level of implementation of staff expenditure below what was planned. That is to say, it is not the execution that is causing any doubt about the outcome of our consolidation path. More: the European Commission itself, in all its skepticism, provides for a deficit of 2, 7 %. It is true that it is superior to the one we have budgeted, but notice well: 2, 7% would be the best deficit in the last 42 years, it would be one of the best deficits in southern Europe and, more importantly, would be the deficit that the previous government proposed to achieve last year and that it failed. This would be the result and that is why the reference to any kind of sanctions is also unfair. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not want to believe that there is a political management of this criterion of sanctions on the basis of the current majority, because it would in fact be the cluster: it would be to sanction a political majority that does not like the result achieved by a political majority who was so loved and even presented as an exemplary student. Let us be clear: we must comply with what is the national interest and national interest is to beat us so that there are no sanctions. But let us also not be naive to assume the blame that is not ours and, if there are any guilty, they must also be called to political responsibility before Europe for what they failed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u54	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u55	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we are very concerned that there are amendments to the criteria for the provisions of the Banco de Portugal on which the Government is not informed and that there are amendments, such as the one you have just mentioned, adding to our argument, the deadlines and the times when the Banco de Portugal pays its dividends. The amendment to the European rule seems very difficult to explain this change of provisions because, for example, the Bank of Ireland has not made the same amendment. Therefore, it is necessary to understand exactly why Banco de Portugal does each of these options. The scrutiny and transparency of Banco de Portugal are clear requirements that must be imposed on Banco de Portugal itself. It is not normal to live in a country with Banco de Portugal doing what is not perceived and still apparently no more data being played against the country itself. It is absolutely unacceptable for the Banco de Portugal to play against Portugal. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to speak to you on another subject which has been addressed today by Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, the strike of the summerers. This is a serious problem in the country. We've been living in a strike scenario for four years, and it's good that we understand what's going on. Is it serious for the economy? Of course! And there's a serious problem with port workers. Port operators do not have workers and use temporary workers. For this reason, there was a company for which these workers were working which later provided workers with port operators. Since the scheme is exceptional, port workers are obliged to make more than 250 overtime hours a year, much more than any other worker. However, the work of the growers is hard, he plays with many operators, with serious risks of accidents at work, and therefore the International Labour Organisation says that it is up to the national policy to obtain permanent and effective contracts for these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u57	What happened with the legislative amendment that made the right was the fact that port operators began to set up their own temporary work companies to compete with each other and to see who rented the cheapest workers, at the time and day — a real square of the typical 19th century day! It's completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u58	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u59	Therefore, in this conflict that harms the economy, there are those who are guilty, there are those who are winning and those who want to win are the operators of the ports, who want to lower the labour costs and destroy all the labour rights of the summerers. It must be said that, in this arm of hard iron, the dryers have already yielded and, with their concessions, they save EUR 2 million to the operators of the port, which are still not happy because they want to go down any further, make work more precarious, and that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u60	That's a complete fantasy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u61	Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, for the Block Left the solution is one: to end the temporary labour companies of the ports that compete with each other. Porlis has no place, this scheme does not take place in Lisbon Port or any other port. There are port companies, ports, which can transfer workers to port operators is the minimum that can be done for decency in labour law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u62	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u63	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I would ask you to understand that I am very economical in my words on the issue which is the subject of negotiation, since, at the moment, Mrs Mar is meeting with operators, trade unions, with the International Organisation of Summerers, with a view to finding a good solution. So the last thing I would like was to give here any answer that compromises the government's efforts to ensure that the parties reach an agreement, as it is desirable. What I cannot but underline in any case is the seriousness of the situation not only for the Lisbon port, not only for operators and workers, but for the whole national economy. We cannot have the illusion that the internal port system is a system of communicating vessels and that the traffic that is lost in Lisbon recovers in Legions, Setúbal or Sines. We are losing traffic to Spanish ports and, above all, we are significantly enhancing the competitiveness of all companies. And these companies, who are paying these costs, also have workers, also have jobs that need to defend. If we want to relaunch the economy we need to create conditions to solve the situation in the Lisbon port. With regard to the concrete concern you have highlighted, I have the hope and confidence that a good solution can be found between the parties today to overcome this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u64	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u65	Mr. Prime Minister, we were talking about not the consequences but the solutions. As far as the consequences are concerned, let me remind you that if we accept that in a sector there may be temporary employment companies competing for those who rent the cheapest worker at the hour, this will be for the whole economy and will inevitably harm all workers in this country. Therefore, the summerers, with their struggle, are also defending something as essential as the dignity of work throughout the country, for all workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to speak to you about another matter which you have been discussing, which is not easy and has to do with 35 hours a week. The position of principle of the Left Block, you know it - 35 hours of weekly work for all workers in the public sector and in the private sector. For 100 years, you've been working 8 hours a week. After technological revolutions, the need for qualification, reconciliation with family life, productivity that has increased, the need to divide the work that exists, the need to combat wage inequality, it takes 35 hours of work. That is modernity, and that is also why private companies already have 35 hours a week, because they have already understood how this is good for the economy. This is not the discussion we are having right now, but we have an agreement that speaks of the replacement of 35 hours a week for public service workers, i.e. for workers who worked 35 hours and were forced to work more five hours a week for free by law of the PSD / CDS. That is, they were forced to work unpaid hours and that has to end. Whoever has wages to work 35 hours, works 35 hours and not 40 hours. [[PSD protests.]] The government told us that it was difficult to implement this in the services and we added to July 1 so that this replacement could enter into force in the second half.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u66	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, now apparently, the difficulty is in the health sector, particularly with nurses. Well, there are no first-time workers and second-time workers. [[Looks like it! It seems so!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u68	So the question I am asking is how are the discussions that the government is having with the unions and how can workers who may have to wait for this very fair replacement of working only the hours paid to it can be compensated. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u69	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is easy for us to talk here because we agree on the essentials, in fact, I would say that we agree on everything. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] As you know, in my previous duties, until I have applied, on behalf of the autonomy of the local authority, the unilateral change of time, decreed by the Government. I even took the initiative, together with several chamber presidents, to request the declaration of unconstitutionality of this application to the local administration and the submission of the local administration to ratification by the Government, which, fortunately, the Ombudsman promoted and the Constitutional Court came to decree. I have no doubt that there is no justification for a unilateral change in the timetable and that this amendment is also a form of unilateral change in the remuneration framework. So we understand, and I believe that we agree with this reality. I believe that it is necessary, in the framework of the replacement of legality, of the replacement of rights, to replace the timetable. What the Government Programme says is very clear: replacement of 35 hours for workers in public service, without this entailing an increase in overall expenditure. This is possible and there is no need to resort to magic. It is possible to do, firstly, through the management and organization of work in each service and, secondly, because the increase of expenditure in a service can be offset by the failure to increase expenditure in another service or by the reduction of overall expenditure, from the way in which the number of contracts is managed. I believe that a number of amendments, which are under discussion in the specialty, are currently being tabled in the Assembly of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u71	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u72	... which have also been discussed with the unions with a view to ensuring a security mechanism that does not discriminate against nurses or hospital assistants in relation to other workers but guarantees a safety valve that we all need to exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u73	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u74	Mr President, I am making an effort to conclude. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] But, as I said, we need to have a safety valve so that, in exceptional and timely situations, there can be some adjustment during a transitional period, so that with the reduction of time and under the conditions laid down in the Government Programme, we can ensure continuity and quality of basic services, such as hospital services.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u75	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to try a little bit more.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u76	I believe that, at the moment, in the negotiations that have been held with the different trade unions, several possibilities have been identified to accommodate this safety valve, ensuring the essential: replacement of the timetable without increasing expenditure and without losing the continuity and quality of the service provided to all citizens. These are the three conditions that we have to achieve, there are ways of doing, and I am sure we will. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u77	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u78	Mr President, Prime Minister, brought us here the National Reform Programme and how I do not want to stop addressing this matter, I would like to ask you a previous question: on page 80 of your Simplex + programme is announced the creation of the single environmental title and I would like to know what is the creation of this title.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Member. Mr. Prime Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u80	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I will give you a satisfaction: it is a matter of implementing legislation which your Government has approved and which has not been implemented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u81	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u82	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question was very useful because I would therefore recommend correcting page 80 of the Simplex +, where it says: « create the single environmental title ». [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP José Pedro Aguiar Branco.]] So, Prime Minister, what I suggest is that, above all, if you know you're telling a lie, take advantage of it to correct it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u84	It's just that we're getting used to all this. I gave you this example, but I can give you a variety of others — I have a number of wallets. That's called plagiarism. But be well understood: we are entirely in favour of Simplex +. In fact, the previous government has worked on what was already coming from behind, has added, has progressed and is exactly what you are doing now. But I didn't say it was yours that wasn't yours! Therefore, thank you very much for this explanation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Every 15 days that Mr. Prime Minister here comes with economic data that appear, there are comments that leave everyone concerned. The only person who is not concerned, apparently, is the Minister of Finance. There are conflicts that are not resolved — the Lisbon port and association contracts are some of them — the decisions announced by the government, in fact, do not realize what they are left of, is a government, in our perspective, profoundly uninformed. You have already answered something about 35 hours, but I would like to specify and ask you two things: first, how will this figure be, particularly in health matters? After all, what are we staying in?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u86	We've heard it's not gonna be 35 hours, it's gonna be more vacation days. We also heard the unions say that this is not acceptable, that is not what was combined. I would therefore like you to tell me, after all, how it will work at 35 hours, remembering, moreover, that you say it will be for everyone and your Minister of Finance says that an adaptation is needed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u87	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see the use of words such as lies and plagiarism, which lack arguments and therefore resort to the burden of speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u89	The truth, Prime Minister! Who lies in little things lies in big things!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u90	But the honourable Member will then work to review the history and verify that the law, which we do not return and that we apply, provides for a single regime but does not create the title that we are now creating, pursuant to that law. But I see that at least it is easy to please her: when we return the laws, she rejoices, because we are evil, because we return; when we do not return, we continue to be evil, because we do not return her. Madam Member, I am glad that it is so easy to please you! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to 35 hours, it is easy to read the Government's Programme:'replacement of 35 hours for all workers in public service to whom they have been withdrawn, without increasing public expenditure and ensuring continuity and quality of services provided'. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u91	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u92	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, as you will well notice, my only question is the replacement of truth and I am pleased that it has been restored, in this matter, being just one example of several others I have here and I could mention to you, but I do not want to be spending the time in this matter. I would like to ask you another question: how many investment projects have already entered AICEP, I mean foreign direct investment, since Mr. Prime Minister is in office and what is the expectation for approval? How many are at stake, and what can we expect in this matter? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u93	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that projects will be signed worth EUR 400 million by the end of the summer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u95	You have the floor to Mr. Mrs. Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u96	Mr. Prime Minister, essentially did not answer the question, but in any case we will be here to see how many the projects are and what the amount is associated with it. [[PS protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, let me also ask you about the Lisbon port, and why is it of interest to this bench: what are the limits of this right to strike for you? I recall that in December last year, in response to the then CDS-PP leader, he said there are limits to the strike allergy, criticizing the CDS when he was talking about the need to put order at home in this matter. Yesterday, he said that there are limits to everything and if the solution is not a negotiated solution another solution will have to be found. So I ask you now what that limit is and what its position is. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u97	In reply, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the limits of the right to strike are the limits laid down in the law, but I can assure you that our limits to indifference to the problem will be lower than yours, which, as Minister of the Sea, has lived with 400 consecutive days of strike. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u99	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u100	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, once again does not respond and now I remind you that I did not have the protection of the ports. Secondly, I remind you, moreover, that a strike has never affected this country as much as it is now affecting the Portuguese economy and exports. But changing the subject, Mr. Prime Minister, a month ago the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u101	It's better, it's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u102	No, it's not better, but time is urgent. A month ago, the CDS brought 25 birth and family support proposals to this house. They were scandalously plunged into the ruling of the Socialist Party in a debate which was politically and intellectually pauperemous. We will present today, and we will have a positive agenda next Thursday, an initiative on support for active ageing and support for the elderly. My question is whether the Socialist Party will behave in the same way. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u103	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u104	Mr President, Mrs Deputies, I felt that in the previous debate I had made it clear that when I wanted to speak to the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party he has full willingness to go with you to the Largo do Caldas, to meet with you in the Long of the Mouse or then, if you want, I have the greatest pleasure to invite you to lunch a grilled fish, in honor of our common love to the sea, so that we can deal with all these matters. It happens that this debate is not with the Secretary-General of the PS, this debate is with the Prime Minister of Portugal. So here in the Assembly of the Republic, they only answer on behalf of the PS, the leader of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Members of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u105	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u106	Mr President, Prime Minister, the things I have to say I have a habit of saying them publicly and in front of everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u108	And once again, I note that you do not have any thought on this matter, that you do not care about active ageing, do not want to know about the protection of the elderly and, more importantly, do not coordinate with your bench, record that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is an excretion of the Socialist Party and that it has a Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs that we do not realize what it is for! Therefore, on this matter we understand. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u109	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please let the speaker speak. Mrs Cristian Assumption, you can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u110	What you cannot say, Prime Minister, is that I did not know how, when and in what circumstances this debate was going to take place. Mr. Prime Minister, we see the situation in Venezuela getting so much worse and this matter concerns us a lot. My question is this: knowing that we have 400 000 Portuguese in difficult and risky situations there, I would like to know what has been done by the Portuguese Government with the Government of Venezuela, as well as what has been done by diplomatic channels to ensure protection for these Portuguese people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u111	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u112	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities has already had the opportunity to travel to Venezuela, meet with the Venezuelan Government, meet with the Portuguese community living in Venezuela and we closely follow the very complex situation that a very significant community is living in that country. If you do the work of reading the Government's Programme, you will find that issues relating to active and healthy ageing are a priority. But a priority that is not left in rhetoric, remains in the recovery of investment in continuous care networks, remains in the replacement, already completed, of the solidarity complement for the elderly,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because the elderly whom Mrs Deputies refers to are also the elderly to whom the Government, which you were part of, cut off the solidarity supplement for the elderly and also those who also cut the pensions, although against the Constitution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u113	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u114	Mr President, Prime Minister, last month has reduced the number of beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, it is worth reviewing these numbers...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u115	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u116	...and this government does not even ensure that minimum social and rural pensions are updated at the level of inflation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, in these lower pensions, not even inflation is covered, so we are talking about this. But I hope that this means that the Socialist Party, at its parliamentary bench, as an instrument to support the implementation of government policies, can also bring about matter and debate on this issue of active ageing. Time no longer allows, but I would like to ask you one last question: Mr Prime Minister, do you have any idea how many appointments for leadership positions have already been made by your government? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u117	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u118	Mr President, Madam Member, no, but I am sure that your consultation with the Journal of the Republic will allow them to justify them because all appointments are public. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u119	Mrs. Assumption Cristas, you still have time, please intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u120	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we do the housework, were more than 150. My second question is whether you know how many of them passed through CRESAP ( Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Committee ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u121	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u122	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, it is simple: they all had to go through CRESAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u123	Mrs. Christian Assumption, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u124	Mr. Prime Minister, it was only 19, in more than 150!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u125	Do you know why?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u126	What I think Mr Prime Minister owes to this House and should politically reflect is simply the following: you may not like the CRESAP model, you may think that it has to be refined, in fact, the Socialist Party has suggested refinements to this model in a quite recent past. It can revoke the model, it can return to the model it had when it was part of the Government of Socrates in which basically they passed a law that when the government changed the entire high government could fall and be renamed. It is a model of political trust and that is legitimate, you can do it and defend it in this House, and you will certainly have a parliamentary majority to support it. What can't be done is, on a way to disengage the Public Administration, on a road to competitions,... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u127	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please let the honourable Member finish the speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u128	As I said, on a path of transparency, he cannot pretend that the law does not exist, he cannot systematically draw leaders and replace them by others, disregarding competitions, disregarding legal mechanisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u130	That is a lack of political courage, a lack of political and intellectual honesty, and that, Prime Minister, cannot do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u131	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u132	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas : I have long been a strong advocate of the professionalization of the Public Administration. I have had the happiness of all the sectoral ministries in which I perform functions are institutional ministries, which have exercised sovereignty functions and where such problems have not occurred and I have never verified the significant need to change leaders to implement and implement government programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u133	But your government seems to have that need!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u134	I believe that a mature democracy of what needs is a professional, loyal public administration capable of implementing government programmes, depending on the choices of citizens and legitimate governments who are in office. It is very negative that, once and for all, we will not be able to understand ourselves together about a model. at the beginning of the Socrates Government I negotiated with the then opposition parties a change to the legislation appointing the leading positions, separating the technical functions, which should be irremovable, from the political trust functions that automatically expired with the change of government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u135	We agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u136	at the beginning of his government, of the government of Dr. Passos Coelho, I believe there was a new negotiation with the Socialist Party where a new model was found. I believe that whenever there is change in government people should evaluate the models that have been practiced and I think that we should stabilize this once and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u137	That's not what you're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u138	I must tell you that I am not particularly opposed to the model that was adopted and I think we should make an assessment of whether what was wrong resulted from the model or from the misuse that was made of the model. And the suspicion I have, I must tell you, Mrs. Member, is that what was done was a misuse of the model that was adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u139	I even had a leader who is your Secretary of State of the Sea!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u140	When the positions of district social security leaders were passed between the PSD and the CDS according to the proportion of each one, we realize that the problem is not the model, it is the one that applied it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When, as the President of CRESAP has already reported, before three choices made to the availability of the government, the President has systematically chosen who was the CDS or who was the PSD, the problem may not be the model, but the one who applied it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, with much serenity, what we have been doing is working on a model so that when the opposition has the coldest, more serene head, it has a minimally constructive spirit, we can talk and discuss it here in the Assembly of the Republic, because I think it was very important for the Public Administration to end, once and for all, with this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u141	Learning one thing and doing another is lying to people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u142	Mrs. Member, as you have an obligation to know, and well, many of the leaders who have worked with me in the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u143	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u144	... you may, by talking to them, know the criteria that I adopt for the choice of leaders. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u145	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u146	Mr President, Prime Minister, allow me to say that before I put the first question to you, we have heard the PSD and the CDS here, always forgetting, remembering, bleaching their serious responsibilities for four years, in which they should have apologized to the Portuguese, taking hundreds of thousands of Portuguese to "eat the bread that the devil has heaped", in unemployment, in the court of wages, in the increase of the tax burden, in the attack on public services, with subservience before the institutions of the European Union, arm themselves in moralists and make critical judgments! This is a record I'd like to leave. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, last month he was the President of the ECB to suggest to Portugal the revision of electoral laws and the Constitution itself, in addition to the ever-ending structural reforms and to show the disagreement with the increase in national minimum wage. This week one of the six executive members of the ECB came to Lisbon to question the country about a supposed retreat to what they call structural reforms and to return to the load with the issue of 35 hours a week. Mr Prime Minister, do you not think that this destabilizing, systematic interference is unacceptable? Has this government delegated to the ECB some responsibility and obligation, which is the Portuguese Government and the European institutions? We think it is time to say that we must concentrate on their tasks and functions and safeguard and respect our own sovereignty. We need to correct the injustices that have been made in recent years. Yesterday, it was marked the beginning of the replacement of the cut holidays. It is necessary to restore 35 hours, also correcting the injustice created by the PSD Government and the CDS. But, Mr Prime Minister, in concrete terms, as regards the situation in which the port sector is located, listening here to the words of Mr Passos Coelho, I am impressed and come to memory now that we have celebrated the 40 years of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic — the following: when the constituents were confronted between the economic interests and the interests and rights of the workers, when the question, apparently dilemma arises, the constituents and the Constitution have made an option, that of the most favourable treatment to the worker and support to the most fragile part, and that is what is included in our Constitution, even say, with the vote on the PSD, at the time. Today, when we heard Dr. Passos Coelho refer to the interests of competitiveness, economic interests, etc. It should be noted that you have never referred to the word 'workers' — and the workers of the sector are doing this strike, regardless of whether we are discussing whether it is the right way or not, but I would like to see you instead, when you propose absolute precariousness, when you propose the reduction of wages, when you try to condemn those workers without future and without rights. What would you do if that were involved? [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] He's not. You defend other interests, it's true. The question I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, is whether the Government is still prepared to intervene in respect of labour legislation to seek a political solution to the conflict, given the interests at stake, but that workers' rights are never forgotten. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u147	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u148	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we have and want to maintain a constructive position with the European institutions. We know what is the regulatory framework, what is the framework of the Treaties — and in this respect our position differs from the position of the CFP — and for us there is a very clear frontier: one thing is respect for the Treaties, another thing is to admit that there is a political intrusion beyond the treaties and in the name of a pure ideological option. The Treaties impose a balance between expenditure and revenue, but do not impose any rule on the contents of expenditure and revenue. In fact, I find it shocking that those who applauded for four years the policy followed by the previous government, who had shown the previous government throughout Europe as a model of an exemplary student—I had recently been reminded of the German Minister of Finance with our former Minister of Finance, showing her as the example of the good student and the person so applied in the implementation of that strategy and then, when we came to the end, we found that the strategy failed because instead of the 2, 7 % they had as objective, had a deficit which, by withdrawing extraordinary measures from the side of expenditure and revenue, was 3, 2 % — now come to say: "After all they were not as committed as what they said it was. » Now, this duality is shocking and politically unacceptable. Sometimes I wonder - but I don't want to believe that this position of the European Union results from the fact that someone promised that it was because it was election year but that, past the elections, it would all be "sat" again in order to compensate for the excesses of 2015, because it was very important on top of the elections to increase 200 euros to each nurse's salary or hire more thousands of workers for the National Health Service. I don't even want to believe that duplicity had gone that far. But that's unacceptable, it is. But there is one thing that is very clear between us: what we have in our Government Programme reflects the commitments we have made with the Portuguese, with the parties that form a parliamentary majority, in particular with the CFP, and that is the programme that we are going to implement. Even when there are difficulties in running it, we will work to execute it. That is what we are doing about 35 hours and that is what we will be able to do about 35 hours. As regards labour relations, it is the fundamental point of our Government programme, and it is the fundamental point of the National Reform Programme, in fact even the report of the European Commission which is essential to combat precariousness. The European Commission itself recognises that, without combating precariousness, we cannot have a greater qualification of our human resources and without a greater qualification of human resources we will not have better productivity in our own economy. So neither the European Commission is against this position today, which means that we have to act on this issue. In particular, on the port issue, I would say that we are committed to finding a solution. The Minister of the Sea is currently meeting with the operators and with the unions, is also present, seeking to contribute to a solution, the international organisation of the trade unions of the summerers and we have every effort to ensure that there is a solution to the satisfaction of the parties, of course, but above all to the satisfaction of the national economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u149	The Parliamentary Group of the CFP continues to speak through Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u150	Mr President, Prime Minister, we consider this idea as a structuring that, without respect for workers' rights, there is no real economic and social development. So I'm going to ask one more question that has to do with collective bargaining. The textile workers today struggle very hard to defend their CCT(collective labour contract) negotiated in 2012 and against the claim of the employers' association, which wants to impose the expiry of the same pod in question the set of rights which are included in this working regulation instrument. The employer association wants to withdraw the municipal holiday, the Carnival holiday that these workers have always enjoyed. But they want more: they want to end a small allowance, the grant of love, which allows workers and workers a certain relief taking into account their children. And they want to reduce even more by cutting the amount paid for extraordinary hours, moving forward in their proposal with the possibility of weeks of 60 hours. Sixty o'clock, Prime Minister! How do you understand a proposal of this nature in a framework where there are fascinating advances in science and technology? With all these progress, how do we try to go back — almost a century — in terms of working hours? How is it possible to further reduce income to whom only the national minimum wage is paid? Here is an example of how expiry works. It is not to modernize, Mr. Prime Minister, it is to destroy rights. The question is whether Mr. Prime Minister and his Government are available to defend and guarantee the constitutional right to collective bargaining. Using this reference of the cut-off of the allowance that is proposed, the grant for the women, these workers and these textile workers, at the time when we will celebrate the International Day of the Child, here is a good example of what should not be done and what it is possible to do with measures that we ourselves, taking the initiative, have presented here in the Assembly of the Republic. But it's from the small one that gets big. I think this right to collective bargaining...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u151	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u152	... and respect for the contract assumed must be a fundamental touchstone of any government and any policy that seeks social justice and economic development. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u153	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are accompanying you in your concern about the need to reinstate the collective bargaining. The modern economy is not a ruleless economy, it is not an exploitation economy, it has to be a quality-based economy and quality is achieved only with fair working relations. The destruction of collective bargaining is something that concerns the government and, within the framework of social consultation, the timetable is set to unlock the situation of collective bargaining. In fact, what we have seen is the abuse in many sectors of situations where collective bargaining has expired for 40 years. In addition, we have even verified situations in which the employer's own association has ceased to expire the previously signed contract in order to destroy these contracts and we have seen situations of declaration of expiry of the new contracts already signed after expiry. These situations are absolutely unsustainable. As you know, with regard to State companies, the Government intervenes in particular with regard to the Lisbon Metropolitan. We want to unlock the framework of collective bargaining because it is the best way to stabilize a healthy relationship. In fact, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this report from the European Commission, where people always look when they talk about the deficit, have a lot of other important information and that values many of our positions. One aspect which the European Commission notes is that the expiry of this collective contract has not been taken advantage of for a better level of social dialogue and the modernisation of the contract, in particular at the level of the company, but, on the contrary, in order to prevent working relations and create an absolutely unacceptable deregulation framework. with regard to child poverty, it has to be our priority, because it has originated one of the most dramatic consequences of these four years of execution. We have already given a first response to restoring family allowances, we have given a second response to restoring the previous criteria on social income for insertion, which had removed RSI to families of 65 000 children, but must go further in a national programme for the eradication of child poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u155	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u156	Child poverty is the most dramatic for our future because it is the one that tends to reproduce a new generation of poverty that would necessarily compromise our development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u157	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u158	Mr President, Prime Minister, I believe that there is no environmentalist who can remain indifferent to the inhumanization of society and therefore cannot be indifferent to the inhumanization of working relationships. So, Prime Minister, what happens to port workers cannot leave anyone indifferent in this country. The truth is that these workers are subject to absolutely degrading working conditions. They have absolutely unthinkable working hours, an unacceptable precariousness: it is daily work, they are hired daily and for a set of hours. There is no rate of stability, there is no rate of security due, there is no rate of happiness, there is no index of human dignity that can happen in these conditions. Mr Prime Minister, say there in the European Union, when we talk so much about sanctions to Portugal, that we are already here to suffer the sanctions resulting from the policy of the previous government which has become precarious in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u160	The sanctions are already being applied and we want to get rid of them. In good rigour, that is what this is about. Mr. Prime Minister does not want to move forward in any way with regard to port workers, because, he says, the Minister is looking for a negotiation. We will respect this with regard to the strike in particular, but there is something that perhaps the Prime Minister can move forward. We are all aware that the legal regime of port work has made a stamp to dictate the precariousness of these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u162	So there is one question that needs to be asked: does the government consider it essential to amend this legal regime of port work?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u163	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u164	That's a question we'd like to ask. On the other hand, today we need to talk again about the exploration and exploitation of oil in the Algarve. Why? Because there are new developments in this matter. The truth is that the fuel market regulator ensured that there were weaknesses in the execution of the contract that allows the exploration and exploitation of oil to Portfuel. Mr. Secretary of State for Energy considered that the granting of this prospect and exploitation to Portfuel was a horrendous mistake made on the eve of elections by the previous Government. I'd like to know whether or not the current government will cancel this contract. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and the BE Member João Vasconcelos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u165	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u166	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the Government has audited the contracts concluded by the previous Government, in particular the contract with Portfuel. The Government's findings were that, first of all, there was an error in the form of submission of work plans, secondly, there was a failure to comply with the obligation to provide security, thirdly, there was a failure to comply with the obligation to provide proof of the constitution and maintenance of the insurance contract. in the view of the government, all these situations should lead to the annulment of the concession contract concluded. In order to strengthen legal certainty, the Government requested the Advisory Council of the Attorney General of the Republic to assess this situation. We await the response of the Consultative Council of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic and will act accordingly. However, there was a suspension of the Aljustrel hole regarding the application of the Water Law and we have come to carry out a monitoring to ensure that these works are not used unauthorized techniques, such as non-conventional techniques such as fracking, which could not, in fact, be authorised without an assessment of the extended environmental impact. at this moment, we are awaiting a reply from the Advisory Council of the Attorney General of the Republic to be able to make a final decision on this contract. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm sorry, but it's not Aljustrel, as I said, but Aljezur.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u167	You have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u168	Mr President, Prime Minister, The Greens consider that the issue of supervision is important because we believe that, by means of supervision, there are eventually many contracts that will be cancelled because, in fact, there are matters that do not correspond to what is required. But, Prime Minister, this subject of prospecting, which always has in mind the exploitation of natural gas or oil in the Algarve, is, in the perspective of the Greens, absolutely incompatible with a tourism logic in the Algarve which is becoming increasingly sustainable and which is turning to the sustainable component, which the Government must take into account. On the other hand, I see that Mr Prime Minister has not answered my question about the legal regime of port work, whether or not it is important to amend it, and we would like to know the opinion of the Government. Mr President, just to finish, I will not ask a question, but a statement to make it clear what the Greens' position is about 35 hours, until we have presented a parliamentary initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u169	It has to be very fast, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u170	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, we have put forward a parliamentary initiative on this subject and we believe that there is no reason to discriminate against workers. from the perspective of The Greens, the application of 35 hours in public service to all workers on 1 July is required. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u171	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u172	Having clarified the confusion between the pyrites and the prospection and between Aljustrel and Aljezur, I would like to say the following: we will be very careful with the supervision and also carry out the opinion of the Attorney General of the Republic, which we hope to confirm our interpretation of the verification of the conditions for the annulment of this contract. There is something that is very clear for the government and which I have already had the opportunity to say in the Algarve: it is important to know all the natural resources that the country has so that good decisions can be made, but never knowing that there are natural resources that we already know and that it is important to safeguard. The great natural resource of the Algarve, to prove otherwise, is the resource of its environmental quality in the greenhouse area and its quality of the beach, sea and sun, in the maritime area. It is these natural resources which, in no case, can be sacrificed, without prejudice to information on other types of resources, but these cannot be contested. on the contrary, it is increasingly necessary to value other natural resources that exist in the Algarve, where and more and more, in the baroque area, have come to be valued. This valuation goes from what it has to do with the master, what it has to do with the production of cork and what it has to do with the production of other less known natural products of the Algarve. More and more we have to bet not only on the Algarve that lives the 90 days of summer, but on the Algarve that lives 365 days of summer. The diversification of the tourist offer itself has to go a long way through the bet on renaturalization and another tourist offer that allows a four-station Algarve...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u173	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u174	... and not only the beach Algarve, but also the Algarve that offers the tourism of the walkers, the tourism of the natural quality that the Algarve has preserved and that we must know how to value properly. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on the question concerning which I had not answered you recently, I now have no chance to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[The Members of the Greens are laughing at Apollonia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u175	Mr André Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, bring to the debate a subject relating to reform in the area of justice, which is the food of prisoners. The money made available by the State has never been so reduced, currently at 2, 31 € to feed one person per day — 2, 31 € for four daily meals is manifestly insufficient, it does not seem to us that it is possible to guarantee minimum food quality and safety with 2, 30 € per day. Now, these people are in the process of rehabilitation and reintegration, Prime Minister. They may have temporarily lost their right to freedom, but they continue to have a right to their dignity. This is also a social cause and, in order to solve this problem, in order for the Minister of Justice to continue to have its good performance, a clear strengthening of funds is needed to do so. Mr Prime Minister, what do you intend to do in this regard, either in the short term or at the level of the State budget for 2017?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u177	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u178	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I will reply to you very telegraphically to leave time for your next questions. As far as quality is concerned, it is clear that the only penalty that any prisoner has to pay is deprivation of liberty, that no longer has to pay any penalty associated with the quality of food. Ms. Minister of Justice is reviewing the burden books that are applied to these companies that provide meals not only to prison establishments but also to hospitals and schools, and we are making the assessment not of the cost but of the quality of the service provided and this evaluation will be done with all the exemption and with all the rigour by the Minister of Justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u179	Mr André Silva has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u180	Mr Prime Minister, continuing to talk about food, and in accordance with the interview given by the Secretary of State for European Affairs on 25 May, it is stated that there will be a need for defence in relation to the Transatlantic Treaty, in particular as regards the consumption of pigmeat which may come from the United States, which has production methods that are not allowed in Portugal. I recall that pigmeat, which is currently created, marketed and consumed in our country, is produced with a ration-based diet in which 90 % of the cereals used are transgenic. This is the reality of our country, most of which is resistant and treated with potent agrotoxics such as glyphosate. If there is a real concern on the part of the Government about this, why not apply the same defensive interest in pigmeat that is produced in Portugal? Because the Minister for Agriculture, following the recommendations of national and international health protections, encourages Portuguese to consume pork and to contribute to the deterioration of their health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u181	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u182	... doesn't it tell you what is the feed of cattle in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u183	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u184	Mr President, Mr President, firstly and with regard to the negotiation of the Treaty between the European Union and the United States, as you know, the coming of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Commission next Tuesday is already scheduled and is also marked, on the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, a plenary debate on the subject by 16 June. We reaffirm what we have said: for the studies we have known, Portugal is a country which is globally beneficiary of the Treaty. There are issues that are unacceptable to us from the point of view of principles, such as the generalization of the principle of arbitration as a rule for conflict resolution. There are sectors that require follow-up, such as the tomato sector that is processed and that is particularly affected by competition, with the production of California, but details may be given and developed within the Commission by the Minister and in the debate in plenary on 16th day. Moreover, we must ensure the quality of our food, but we must also ensure the quality of our production. In fact, we cannot ignore the fact that the pig farming sector is currently undergoing a very serious crisis, which is the result, in particular, of the embargo on Russia and also of the breakdown of exports to traditional markets.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u185	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u186	And it is also the government's duty to monitor and monitor the quality of production, but it also defends it and encourages Portuguese to confidently consume the production of agricultural goods, farm goods, as is also, for example, the production of pigmeat, with food safety, but also with the need to defend our production of food goods. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u187	Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, this debate coincides with a signal regarding the situation in which we are in, during a period of six months in an old opposition and six months in a new government... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and even for two few months of implementation of the State budget. It was a period marked by a multiple government agenda, in which we gave priority to the recovery of income and social minimums, to a new typification of dialogue with the European Union, to the adoption of structural documents, such as the Government Programme, the National Reform Programme, the Stability Programme, the State Budget, the organisation and management of public systems in health, education, social security or justice, the modernization of the State, the implementation and preparation of instruments that will improve the performance of our economy, which will now occupy us most. Many measures stem from internal and other external commitments. We thus have a dual agenda, as we said and wanted it to be. The PP leader, who I do not think is a « leftover» of his party and who does not think that it is an excretion from the right parliament, thinks that these two agendas are inconclusive.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u189	And they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u190	For we are proving the opposite and proving that no party supporting this government is a hostage to the other, but that everyone wants to be hostage to the commitments they have made with the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] I do not, however, admire that PSD and CDS-PP do not understand this simultaneousity. They always thought the weighting was different: either kneeling outside or fulfilling their promises to the Portuguese. And, of course, we know what they chose: kneeling outside, not fulfilling what they had promised in here and, still above, not reaching the goals they had announced out there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] For example, I remind Mr Pedro Passos Coelho that it was the PSD and PP government that increased the structural deficit last year and that on 30 April 2012 he promised that at the end of last year it would reach a structural deficit of 0, 5 %. It came at the end of last year with a structural deficit four times higher and this year we will have good budgetary implementation. [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro Passos Coelho and CDS-PP Member Assumption Cristas.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the country has a stable government, a majority of government support that has been successfully tested and a program approved to comply with. The Portuguese want the legitimate government to be respected and the Government to concentrate on what is most important in Portugal, the Portuguese situation. The great challenge of the government is to prove our reasons for the European Union, proof that it is possible to successfully associate a policy of social responsibility and economic development with a policy of financial responsibility and good public accounts. For us, impoverishment and inequality are not the methods for competitiveness; on the contrary, the more equality, the more sustainability in growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the divergence, the great frontier of the new worlds on the right and on the left, the great frontier between what the policy of the previous government represents and what the present majority stands for. It is not surprising, therefore, that this government has done what it has already done and what it is already taking to make a different path, the path we have chosen. The opposition must also draw conclusions from these six months. It is true that Mr Pedro Passos Coelho falls because of the elections in the Azores or the actual elections and whether Mrs Assumption Cristas loses these opportunities or not because of these elections. I think neither of them will fall. Hold on, hold on! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The challenge of opposition is another and the main concern of the country is that the opposition fulfils its main challenge, which is that, in the exercise of its differences, winning the credibility that they still do not have and which are in difficulty to achieve, show greater attraction for the national interest than deduction by the government. We'll all win with that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It seems that the greatest party in the opposition is now with a new slogan, Take Portugal to Sério. Congratulations, it was no longer timeless! And what if they are already beginning to do so, starting by taking seriously the word, the policy and the reality that they have left us, to understand the effort that is now needed to improve the country that we have encountered in a situation of progressive degradation? [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not want your victory, but we want your credibility for the internal challenges and to help us in the prevalence and defence of our country's interests abroad. But we must take the word, politics and reality seriously and the opposition, in these six months, is having great difficulty taking its own role seriously. How can it be said seriously, with an air of fatalistic novelty, that the economy in the first quarter, when there was no State budget for 2016, almost stagnated in relation to the last three months of last year, if the economy, in the six months of last year, with the PSD government / CDS-PP, had already stagnated in the face of previous developments? How can one deny the evidence of a deficit outside the targets outlined in 2015 if that is exactly why the risk of penalties weighs on Portugal? It is not because of the current government that we are at this risk, it is because of the previous governance of the PSD and the CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Pedro Passos Coelho's laughs.]] How can you even seriously think that, by magical arts and with a negative external framework, one can significantly change previous realities in one quarter and, in some cases, persisting, adding to an external European reality and our reference markets exceptionally penalizing, especially for our exports? How can one take it seriously that, in the presence of these conditions, does not recognize that an on-line budget implementation with the intended and external framework is a virtuous aspect—yes, a virtuous aspect—of the action of the Government, in these difficult circumstances? Mr Prime Minister, how can the PSD and the CDS-PP deny social dialogue if, checking for example in the first quarter of each year, between 2012 and 2016, the first quarter of this year is what has the lowest number of strike notices reported? We had one third of the strikes, the country worked and worked with this government more than it did and worked with the previous government. This is what opposition likes to hear, for example, when we talk about 35 hours a week. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS takes very seriously the mission it has proposed. Today's debate has once again unfortunately proved that this opposition does not take very seriously the patriotic mission that it also has. [[PSD protests.]] Even so, Prime Minister, it will be possible to meet the alternative and consolidate hope. We are very committed to this. The Portuguese need this government to succeed and this government will succeed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u191	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u192	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos César, said well, the government is new, but the opposition is old... [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, therefore, it is blocked in a past discourse, as if its main function was a kind of conservation of the archaeological heritage of the four years of its governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, therefore, as the fortnight goes by, it alternates between two styles: either it is the opposition of the toy-and-froge or it is the opposition of the tenth. 15 days ago, the big issue was that of association contracts with the colleges; today, 15 days back, understanding that the government will scrupulously fulfill the contract, that the government scrupulously fulfills the law and that no reason assists those who challenge the government, what the opposition did was not even mention the subject of the colleges and "put the rape in the bag", as is said in good Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]] What was dramatic 15 days ago didn't even deserve a small reference from the PPD/PSD or CDS-PP, not a second attention to colleges! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] No, for this for the fortnight, it was the tenth. And, in fact, we could be here discussing whether unemployment has increased, as Mr Passos Coelho says, or has fallen 2, 1 %, as the National Institute of Statistics says. We could be here discussing whether exports had fallen because of the sinking markets such as Angolan, Brazilian or Chinese and if they were increasing in Spain, if they were increasing in France, if they were increasing in the United Kingdom, if they were increasing in all the countries of the European Union, with the exception of Germany, very likely because the large product exported by Germany, which are the productions of Autoeuropa, will always be falling down until mid 2017, for the simple reason not that there is investment but because Autoeuropa is making a new investment on a new car, discontinuing another product and preparing itself to launch a new one. Despite these conjuncural factors, reality is this. We could be here discussing the deficit. After last year's failure, we have the European Commission itself, with all its skepticism, to expect that for the first time we will leave the excessive deficit procedure this year. We could be discussing this, but with all honesty, I think it is necessary, once and for all, that Portuguese policy ceases to debate the tenth more, the tenth to minus, month to month or quarter to quarter, and that it concentrates on the structural causes of our blockade, since accession to the euro. And these causes of structural blockade were not the false structural reforms that the previous government did, crushing wages or undermining working relationships. The real structural reforms we have to do, as now, finally, recognises the European Commission, are those contained in the National Reform Programme: the qualification, innovation, the modernization of the state, the enhancement of the territory, the capitalisation of enterprises and the eradication of poverty. These, yes, are the fundamental reforms, and that is the debate in which we should focus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the truth is that on the underlying issues, on the structural reforms that the country effectively needs, of the opposition we heard zero: neither PPD / PSD, nor CDS-PP have anything to say about qualifications, nothing to say about innovation, nothing to say about valuing the territory, nothing to say about anything that is essential to the future of the country. This is the reality of the opposition we have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u193	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u194	Today they can no longer disguise the Azedum that grows every week, because every week the hecatombe that they had pre-announced for the following week is not realized. And it is very sad to see an opposition whose ambition of success lies not in its own worth, but in the failure of others. This is an opposition that makes me sad. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fact is that, six months ago, none of the pre-announced hecatombs, none of the disasters that were planned were confirmed, and what we have seen is that, week after week, the difficulties are overdue and the commitments are met: the commitments we made with the Portuguese on taxation; the commitments we made on the replacement of salaries; the commitments we made to maintain the public control of the TAP; the commitment we made to allow the municipalization of urban transport in Lisbon and Porto; the commitments we made for the replacement of the hours of public service workers, which has been unilaterally changed. It has not always been easy to meet these commitments, but it has always been a constant not to give up on the fulfilment of them and we will always try to find a solution to them, as we commit ourselves to the Portuguese, but also as we commit to the Left Block, to the PCP and to the Greens Ecological Party. contrary to what Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho said yesterday, we are not prisoners of our own commitments, we proudly honour the commitments we have made in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And there is something that the Portuguese understand the difference between the position of this government and the position of the previous government. For purely internal policy reasons, the former Government wanted to present in Europe an explanation for the crisis that we faced with blaming national policies and blaming Portuguese. It was the time when Dr. Passos Coelho said that the Portuguese lived above their possibilities and that it was necessary to impoverish to overcome the crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was the time when, with a lack of patriotic sense and a sense of state, they did not realize that the Government of Portugal is not the Government of the conjuncural majority, it is the Government of a country that has its own national interests. And this government is not just here to serve the majority who support it, it is here to serve the country as a whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why, with the same will that I fought for four years in opposition against the policies that were followed by the government then, today I will fight in Brussels so that Portugal will not be punished for the planned failure, in fact, of the wrong policies that have been followed over the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not because we have been opposed to the government since then that we will no longer defend Portugal today, Portugal tomorrow, Portugal forever, because that is what a government must do in all circumstances. [[PS applause, stand up.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u195	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on the implementation of the National Reform Programme, so I congratulate the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government. of our agenda are also the proposals of lein.o 17 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November, corrected by the Declaration of Amendment No 4 / 2006 of 16 January, and amended by Laws No 78 / 2013 of 21 November, and 34 / 2014 of 19 June, establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAM ) and 19 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In defence of family agriculture in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ), to which no time is allocated for discussion. Before we enter the voting period, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u196	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, draft resolutions 332 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government declare the Portuguese coast as a controlled emission area ( NAP ) lower than 11. the Commission, 333 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a scientific study on the abundance of sardine fluctuations and the existence of weak recruitments ( NAPs ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 334 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by amending the Harbour Work Legal Regime ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 335 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a )............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u197	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 201 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Deputies António Leitão Amaro, from PSD, Joana Mortágua and Mariana Mortágua, from BE, performing 204 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting on draft resolution No 328 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Paris ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on a request by the PCP for a discharge from the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 233 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August, strengthening the deterrence of illegal activity in taxi transport ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on a request by the PSD for discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without a vote of 30 days from the proposals of lein 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November, corrected by the Declaration of Amendment No 4 / 2006 of 16 January, and amended by Laws No 78 / 2013 of 21 November, and 34 / 2014 of 19 June, establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAM ) and 19 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In defence of family agriculture in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft law No 156 / XIII ( 1 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Safeguarding the regularisation of livestock and other holdings by extending the period laid down in Decree-Law No 165 / 2014 ( PS ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the NAP.]] We shall move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on Bill No 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Conditions of financial responsibility of the State in the provision of health care to the users of the Regional Health Service of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, by the National Health Service and the recognition of the principle of reciprocity ( ALRAA ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees will then read out the opinions of the Subcommittee on Ethics.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u198	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and Planning of the Territory, the Counter-ordination Process RMJJ-Imobiliaria, S.A. the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Cristas ( CDS-PP ) to intervene in the proceedings under the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u200	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Criminal Section of the Local Authority of the Comarca do Porto, Case No. 899 / 12.8TAMTS, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference car. Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u201	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u202	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Social Security Institute, Investigation Process No 13 / 2016GAQGR, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided not to authorize Mrs Carla Cruz ( PCP ) to intervene in the proceedings under the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-27.u203	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will be on 1 June, Wednesday, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: thematic debate on administrative modernization « Simplex Programme » ; appraisal of the proposal for law No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Return of cultural property which has been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union, transposing Directive No 2014 / 60 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 ; discussion of the projects of lein 181 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — prohibits the use of minors in Tauromachic shows ( PAN) and 217 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents the participation of under 18 in professional or amateur Tauromachic activities and eliminates the category of bull killers ( BE ). Good weekend to all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 19 minutes.]]
