ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. As and Mrs. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the projects of lein.o 358 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protection of individual and common water rights ( PCP ), 359 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rules on the purchase and sale of pet animals ( NAP ), 360 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the impossibility of using the Internet to announce the sale of wild animals ( NAP) and 361 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, expressly prohibiting practices that are seriously harmful to the physical integrity of animals, such as "cat burning" and shooting at the flight of captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as target (NAP). The draft resolutions 575 / XIII ( 2 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the harmonization of the school schedule in pre-school education and basic education ( PCP ), 576 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Committee on the Fight against Food Waste, promote the dissemination and replication of the model of Commissioner and Municipal Plan of Combating Food Waste in Lisbon, with the aim of promoting the creation of a national food waste control network ( CDS-PP ), 577 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a series of measures aimed at reducing food waste ( CDS-PP ), 578 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defence and valorisation of public school ( CFP ), 579 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrate 31 May as the Day of the Brothers ( CDS-PP ), 580 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Changes in the school schedule of pre-school education ( BE ), 581 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat food waste ( BE ), 582/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Public participation in the national strategy and the plan of action to combat food waste ( The Greens ), 583/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Food waste diagnosis in Portugal ( The Greens ), 584 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Guarantees the right to water and sanitation ( The Greens ) and 585 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the fortress of Santa Catarina, on the beach of Rocha ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the first item on the agenda, a marking by The Greens, which consists of a debate on food waste, while joint discussion is on draft resolutions 582/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Public participation in the national strategy and the plan of action to combat food waste ( The Greens) and 583/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Diagnosis on food waste in Portugal ( The Greens ), Bill No. 266 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime applicable to the donation of food for the purpose of social solidarity in order to combat hunger and food waste in Portugal ( PAN ) ( generally ) and draft resolutions 576 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Committee on the Fight against Food Waste, promote the dissemination and replication of the Commissioner's model and the Municipal Plan on Combating Food Waste in Lisbon, with the aim of promoting the creation of a national food waste control network ( CDS-PP ), 577 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a series of measures aimed at reducing food waste ( CDS-PP ) and 581 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat food waste ( BE ). For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the past Parliament, the Greens introduced food waste into the parliamentary agenda. When we talk about food waste, we talk about food that has not been used in quantity or quality. On the other hand, we talk about waste throughout the entire food chain. There are many people who think that this waste is confined to the act of consumption. It is not true, it goes from production to transport, to processing, to storage, to packaging, to distribution and, of course, also to consumption. On the other hand, when we talk about food waste, we talk about a serious environmental and social problem. We must think that every food that is lost, that is wasted, means that natural resources have been used in vain: water, energy, soils and others. But it is also important to think about food shortages worldwide and at social level and to understand how dramatic this contradiction of food waste is. According to FAO (United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization ) it would be sufficient for one third of the food waste to be exploited so that thousands and thousands of human beings could be starved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this concern, The Greens presented, in the past legislature, a draft resolution, which was approved unanimously and which led to the year 2016 being declared the National Year of Combating Food Waste. We want here to welcome the different organizations and movements that have promoted initiatives on food waste this year. Mr President-in-Office of the Council also associated himself with this matter, and he would, of course, not fail to welcome the fact that this year's Coffee of Science has been devoted to this matter. The Greens also sought that in the State budget for 2016 and also in the State budget for 2017 a specific standard on food waste should be found so that the Government would not lose sight of the need to intervene and act on this matter. It was precisely on the basis of the resolution adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, proposed by the Greens, which gave rise to Resolution No 65 / 2015, that the Government created the National Commission for the Fight against Food Waste. This Commission has a short-term objective: to submit a strategy and action plan to combat food waste by the end of this year. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we already have public information that the Government will not receive this strategy and action plan, and the deadline has been postponed, in the words of the Government itself, by March 2017. The Greens consider this postponement worrying and we hope that it will not drag any further. Moreover, we would like to point out that it would have been very helpful for the Government to choose to participate in this debate, because we believe that it should also explain to the House of the Republic on this matter. We believe that this debate would have benefited from your presence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the Greens proposing in particular? That this strategy and action plan be made with a strong public participation and that a diagnosis be made of what is lost in Portugal, because the only study that exists, the Project of Study and Reflection on Food Waste, is a mere estimate. We do not know how much it wastes in Portugal, and we need to take long steps in this matter. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u5	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Food waste affects thousands of citizens, negatively impacts the environment and causes instability in food sovereignty at both individual and family levels. This dysfunction in the allocation and consumption of food goods reflects a profound cultural and economic imbalance in contemporary society. And the data are clear: nowadays in the world, our social and economic model wastes 1, 3 billion tons of food and in Europe every citizen wastes on average 179 kilograms of food goods. In Portugal, the 21 food banks against hunger distributed in 2015 a total of 28 000 000 tonnes of food at an estimated global value of EUR 39 million, thus helping 2,600 institutions and reaching approximately 440 000 people. These data are screaming and require action. And to give shape to this urgency, the Portuguese Parliament stated that 2016 would be the National Year of Combating Food Waste. However, on December 21, 2016, this political will has not materialized yet. Following this dynamic and giving solutions to the institutional will, the NAP has proposed the regulation of the donation of surplus food goods and its redistribution for social solidarity purposes by commercial areas greater than 400 m2, the duly identified operators that then distribute them to people with proven economic shortage. To this end, we plan to create a tax benefit that will allow these companies to present an increased cost on the total value of the donations they make. Donations of food goods shall be considered expenditure or losses of the financial year which shall be increased by the amount provided for in the Financial Benefits Statute. This initiative also provides for a sanctioning framework for companies that, having the possibility of providing food, do not do so. We believe that it is essential to encourage donation, but not to reinforce voluntary waste. In order to make the measure effective, we also advocate the commitment to social training and awareness of all actors working in the food chain and management and also the inclusion in the school education system of food waste so that, together with society, we can build a more active and conscious citizenship. This is the NAP's contribution to help mitigate a scourge that afflicts our entire society.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u7	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, first of all, the Greens once again brought the debate on food waste to the agenda. in recent years, the debate on food waste has intensified and there has been an increasing social awareness of this issue, from political power to all economic actors and public opinion in general. Since the 2011 FAO study on global food losses and waste to date, there have been a number of initiatives in the world, in Europe, and Portugal has not been left out on this issue either. Whether it is in the dissemination and quantification of the question—such as, for example, with the already mentioned study Lost in 2012, or even with the guide Preventing Food Waste, which was done in 2014—either in the attempt to minimize it, there is a huge set of civil society initiatives, whether the Re-Food, the Fruta Feia, the Zero Waste Movement, the Prato and the True Dose initiatives, in which civil society has mobilized and which have joined the existing and important food bank. All of these civil society initiatives arose spontaneously, work on the basis of volunteering and had the support and involvement of trade and industry which, in a logic of social responsibility, strongly adhered to this issue. The growth of these initiatives has been exponential and with greater emphasis on the city of Lisbon, which has overcome all party issues and brought together the consensus necessary to constitute a municipal commissioner, who has had an extraordinary and essential role, I say overcome the party issues, because in a socialist chamber, the municipal commissioner for food waste is a veteran of the opposition, the CDS, and also a facilitator role between the supply and the demand for food, making the bridge between the restoration and the institutions that treat the food and distribute it to those who need it, in a process that is self-regulation and in which the various actors participate, as I have already said, voluntarily. In two years, this project, this initiative, which gathers 120 entities, arrived at all the parish churches of the city and collected, in 2015, 2, 1 million meals. This is therefore an example to follow. And FAO ( Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ) considered this example of the city of Lisbon as a pioneer worldwide. The Prime Minister himself said he was developing a national strategy in this same framework of principles and Mr President of the Republic also supported this initiative and believed that it must be a national design. The CDS believes that it is not necessary to "invent the wheel" nor should we be ashamed to copy the good examples and therefore presented a draft resolution that aims only to create conditions and incentives to replicate throughout the country the extraordinary work of the Municipal Commission of Lisbon on Combating Food Waste, in close cooperation with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and with ANAFRE, and also with civil society. We are also presenting another draft resolution which enbodys a broader set of objectives, within a voluntary and non-punitive regulatory framework or even compulsory, because we believe that the State should have a regulatory and facilitating role. Therefore, in our understanding, product collection campaigns should be disseminated and multiplied directly in the field, because waste and loss occur in all phases of the food chain, as already mentioned here, and there is a great example, which is that of the Restorho project, in the Ribatejo, which has up to the support of the MaB (Man and the Biosphere) Programme, of UNESCO, and which must be disseminated to the European Union in all instances. There should also be ways of compensating the effective costs of logistics and transport and also creating conditions for revision of the regulatory framework of the Statute of Tax Benefits and the IRC Code. We also understand that conditions should be created for a favourable legal framework to which there is an increasing marketing of uncalibrated products but which have all the quality to enter the market, which is an example of the Fruta Feia project. We also understand that it is essential that the specificity of the agricultural sector be considered, because food waste is often attributed to the agricultural sector, when, in practice, there are undeniable losses that cannot exist in the field work. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u9	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Food security, the lack, hunger and food sovereignty of each country are intrinsically related to the production and organization of the agricultural sector, which currently cannot be disconnected from globalization and the prevailing interests of financial, national and international capital. We too, Block Left, do not ignore the multiplicity of factors that contribute to food waste. But the draft resolution of the Left Block affects the relationship that we consider crucial between the conditions in which it occurs and the populations lacking food. We do so because we consider it important to base the production of food on environmentally and biodiversity-friendly systems, in harmony with the territories and the needs of the populations and, in particular, small farmers. However, world food is currently dependent on a system of production and distribution controlled by half a dozen multinationals, which are aggressively imposed on local economies of a smaller scale. at the food level, we are hostage to great interests of financial capital. Control, the strong political lobbying and the extreme aggressiveness with which they promote their products denote a single concern with profit, secondary to health, food balance and, crucially, food waste. Combating waste and loss of food means facing the gap between productive systems, market organization and consumption habits. According to FAO, the amount of food wasted annually is 1300 million tonnes. This waste causes enormous economic losses and natural resources, on which humanity depends to feed. The main causes of waste in the poorest regions are in the organization of production, processing, storage, conservation and transport. In the richest societies, waste results from the disarticulation between consumption, production system, distribution and supply. In Portugal too, these two realities coexist. The transformations that took place in rural territories, especially from the 1960s onwards, have resulted in the withdrawal of agriculture and the influence of urban life, industry and services in the rural world. Rich and productive regions and farms, competitive in the international market, live alongside large regions of small and micro-farms, where farmers survive at great cost. Rich people who can produce and produce waste live alongside poor people, in small farms that accumulate losses because they cannot reach the market. in this universe of small and very small farms, there is agricultural production that cannot drain its products. Waste, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! They are, moreover, by quantifying products, often of great quality, which are lost or destined for animal feed on their own farms because there is no adequate marketing network. A great waste! There are already good initiatives by some municipalities and local and cooperative development associations, but there is an urgent need to bet on short circuits and to give preference to local products in the supply of public canteens. It is necessary to create or find supply concentration structures and it is necessary to encourage the processing and sale of products on its own farm, even on a small scale. And, of course, it is urgent to regulate the relationship between the large distribution chains and production, in order to promote a fair distribution of surpluses throughout the logistics chain and to ensure short payment deadlines, just for the producers, often ensuring their survival. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must support investment in small family farming. in the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ) there is not only one measure adapted to this type of farm. Even the measure for short chains and local markets is not addressed to producers, as is the case in other European countries. A new food system based on an integrated territorial model is needed, which takes into account the characteristics of each territory, with respect to the ecosystem and valuer of the specific resources of the site and proximity relations, a system that approaches production and consumption and promotes diets based on fresh products. If we do, and are convinced that this is a pressing need, we will certainly take good steps to combat food waste. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u11	Mrs Júlia Rodrigues has the floor, too, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: during 2016, marked by the Assembly of the Republic as the National Year of Combating Food Waste, this has been a priority theme in the interventions of the various parliamentary groups and in government initiatives. On this subject, the European Parliament also recommended that by the end of 2016 Member States take steps to reduce half the food that goes to waste. According to estimates by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the industrialized countries waste 1300 million tons of food per year, which would feed about 925 million people starving around the world. In Portugal, according to an assessment of the authorship of the Project of Study and Reflection on Food Waste ( PERDA ), it is estimated that Portuguese people lay to waste 1 million tons of food, i.e. each of us waste, on average, 132 kg of food per year, families waste 324 000 tonnes and 17 % of food is thrown out before reaching the consumer table. Already in this Parliament, on 14 June 2016, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group organized a public hearing on food waste. The debate, which included the presence of researchers, project promoters, authorships, associations and representative organizations, revealed the importance of this issue in civil society and the need for the creation of a cross-sectoral and inter-ministerial committee that would develop a national strategic plan to combat food waste. The different perspectives of food safety and sustainability, the environmental issue and the social motivations were discussed at the public hearing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 25 November, the Government created the National Committee on Combating Food Waste through office. The constitution of this Commission reflects transversality, assumes a comprehensive and multidisciplinary character and leads a process that is intended to be open, dynamic and participatory. The objectives of the National Committee on Combating Food Waste — in the protection of the Ministry of Agriculture — are objectives shared by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Its mission is to draw up two documents: the national strategy and the plan of action to combat food waste, both to be submitted by the end of the first quarter of 2017. This Commission should also monitor, assess and identify the adaptation needs of the strategy and plan and will prepare quarterly reports of the activity developed. of the objectives proposed for the Commission, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group highlights the need to draw up an official diagnosis, to remove existing good practices, to encourage the participation of all civil society entities involved in combating waste, and to develop an electronic platform with the food available by economic operators and the concrete needs of social solidarity institutions. As has become public today, « the idea is to ensure a kind of meeting between supply and demand to accelerate food distribution and avoid waste ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the draft resolutions currently under discussion allow me to reaffirm the general consensus on some proposals, assuming as fundamental an integrated and multidisciplinary approach, including such distinct areas as social solidarity, the environment, health, economics and finance, agriculture and food security. The importance of the short food supply chains, also mentioned, whose proximity circuits avoid food waste, can be priority in the supply of public canteens, schools and hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as stated in the office of this Government, « the fight against food waste is one of the most pressing challenges of today's society to which it is urgent to respond ». In Portugal, we are on the right path! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Greens Ecological Party for once again bringing the debate on food waste. This matter represents a reality and a cross-cutting concern for Portuguese and world society, to which the PSD is not outside and for which we are open for solutions, with a proactive stance. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, food waste is today considered an economic, environmental and social problem and presents values so high that we can even say that they are alarming. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, about 1, 3 billion tonnes of food are wasted per year in the world, which corresponds to about 1 / 3 of all foods produced. in the developed countries, among which Portugal is found, food waste has taken on such a dimension that it is considered a global problem that is reflected throughout all the links of the agri-food chain, from the field to the consumer table, and food waste, along with transport, industry and agriculture, contributes to the high emission of greenhouse gases. If we consider that part of the contribution of agriculture and industry to this total emission was the realization of food products that were then wasted and unused, we see in fact the real dimension of food waste in the pollution of the planet. In addition, all water, light, gas, fuels, raw material and labour used in the production of these waste foods end up being in vain economic expenditure, which could be directed to other areas in need. In contrast to these alarming food waste figures in developed countries, according to data released by FAO, there are currently more than 900 million people in the world at risk of undernutrition. This situation is beginning to become unsustainable because of the consequences it will have, so the European Commission proposed in 2014 the creation of the « Year against Food Waste », proposing the adoption of a set of measures aimed at reducing food waste by half by 2020. in the same line, the European Parliament called for a collective action for the same reduction up to 2025. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, aware of this reality, and giving practical shape to the concern of the problem of food waste, the former Government, PSD / CDS-PP, through the Order 5801 / 2014 of 2 May, created the Food Safety Commission and, with the collaboration of several entities, created the Guide Preventing Food Waste. According to the Food Waste Study and Reflection Project, every year, Portuguese waste 1 million tons of food, i.e., each one wastes, on average, 132 kilograms of food per year. Only families waste 324 thousand tonnes and 17 % of food is thrown out even before reaching consumers. In Portugal, 2016 was declared the National Year of Combating Food Waste, which provides for measures such as requiring a percentage of local products to be used by public institutions and creating an action programme that "set targets and targets for reduction", as well as teaching at school food management, making clear the difference between « consume before » and « consume preferably up ». Much has been done in recent years in order to reduce the values recorded in this area, such as the creation of a supermarket — the Good After — with online orders and which distributes products with large discounts throughout the country, due to the shorter period of validity they have and yet the products sold are all suitable for consumption. In addition to these initiatives, several voluntary projects, such as Re-Food and Zero Waste, have emerged, or have gained more prominence, which increase the use of the leftovers of restaurants and other commercial establishments, distributing them to needy families. Other projects, such as the Dose Certa project, have emerged, which fights waste through the re-education of quantities and sizes of serving portions, mainly at restaurant level, and the Fruta Feia project, which takes advantage of the fruit with quality, but without the proper appearance to be marketed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, although it has already been done enough, we still have a long way to go to end food waste. And the PSD, as the responsible party that is, is, as it has been in the past, next to the solution and will never be a reason for preventing measures that are considered effective and effective for the minimization of this problem and consequently contribute to greater social, economic and environmental fairness, so here again we leave the challenge of setting up a working group to follow up the measures that the government is planning to implement to combat this inexorable reality of our society.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission. [[Congratulations from the PSD and the President.]] [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] I beat my hands because the honourable Member concluded her speech exactly at the time when I had just asked her to finish. Mr João Ramos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Discussing food waste is discussing access to food by human beings and therefore we value this initiative of the Green Party. Through previous initiatives by the Greens Ecological Party, it was possible to find the unanimity in this House which determined that interventions and measures were already on the part of the Government with the definition of instruments that still need to be deepened and developed. It is natural that we become outraged when enough food is produced in the world to feed the whole of humanity but in which a part of the same Humanity does not have access to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u18	This is a cross-sectional problem to societies, it is a problem of countries and their economies that is related to another problem, that of wealth and how it is distributed. The way food is distributed, in an unequal way, has also helped to create the problems that are being addressed today, in this debate. Discussing the waste and the use of food is an important matter for the reasons I have just pointed out. Liberal policies and capitalism have been committed to the concentration of wealth and, by concentrating and distributing wealth in an unequal way, is contributing to the focus of these and other problems. There is food waste in packaged foods and there is also food waste in the food production phase, as has been addressed here. Therefore, we must not fail to mention that the production model must also be addressed. Food production is done according to its economic interest, not according to food and nutrition needs for humanity. Another issue that is important in terms of food waste relates to the issues of food sovereignty. In order for food to reach all it is necessary to produce it. in this matter, our country has marked deficits in some sectors. The country has very high deficits in such important products as beans, beans, cereals and some meat. Food sovereignty is not a matter of lesser importance and must also be considered in this framework. Then, and to end, there are issues of sustainability. In order to have sustainability in food production it is essential that it be placed on a proximity production which is, at the same time, a quality production and which also makes an enormous and fundamental contribution to the development of the rural world, in particular to the fixing of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u20	With all this in mind, I would like to say that it fits perfectly in this area the need to value family farming, because it is the one that makes production of proximity, quality and that makes a fundamental contribution to fixing populations. Above all — and even to end — it is important to remember that, in these areas, part of this waste has a very close relationship with the rules of the European Union and European integration. Of course, because of the issue of markets and the weight that today has the distribution in access to food by the population. The large distribution dominates 70 % of the market for access to food and has a close relationship with this matter. On the other hand, also linked to the rules of the European Union, the question of standardisation is raised, which has already been addressed here. Today, food is worth more by its brightness and size than by its food value, its nutritional value. And that is not by chance, it is about the rules of the market, the rules of the European Union, and it is also about combating and equating these rules. I end by saying that combating hunger and food waste is also facing the policies and policy options that promote them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u21	For a second intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to record, once again, the broad consensus on this issue in this Parliament and say that the Government has created, as Mrs Júlia Rodrigues mentioned here, and well, the National Committee on Combating Food Waste. It was unfortunate that this happened so late, so we think that we should move from words to acts, immediately, and not waste any more time discussing this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u23	You have the floor, for one speech, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From the Greens, I would like to assure at the end of this debate that we will not leave the Government on food waste. There was a commitment to present a strategy and action plan by the end of 2016, which was postponed by March 2017. The Greens will be here to demand that this deadline be met and to require that this strategy and action plan be developed with a very strong public participation and that this is much wider and more fruitful than the traditional public consultations we are used to. On the other hand, the Greens will require a diagnosis of the most approximate and real values of food waste in Portugal, because we need to know what values we actually left. In addition, the Assembly of the Republic, also on a proposal from the Greens, has already been working on several matters that relate directly to food waste, and it is important that we finish these legislative processes, in addition to others that appear. from the perspective of The Greens, it is essential that we also focus on the packaging that is offered to consumers, because consumers often have no option of offering.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u25	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u26	I will finish, Mr. President. Consumers have the option of family packaging and often their family structure requires smaller packaging, which does not exist on the market. There is a need to sell bulk; local production needs to be promoted; short marketing circuits are needed; public canteens need to opt for local production; consumer awareness is needed; consumers need to know the difference between 'consumer before' and 'consumer preference up'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u27	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even in conclusion, I would like to say that it is also important that the canteens, instead of having only one look at the price competitions, also have a look at the economic and environmental value of food. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u29	We move on to the second point of our agenda, which is from the assessment of petition No 109 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators, asking the Assembly of the Republic for a pre-school education schedule equal to that of the other cycles of basic education, together with draft resolutions 575 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the harmonization of the school schedule in pre-school education and basic education ( PCP ) and 580 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Changes in the school schedule of pre-school education ( BE ). Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by greeting the petitioners who, through petition No 109 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Pre-school education calendar equal to that of the other basic education cycles ( Independent Teachers and Educators Union ), exhibits subjects relating to the organisation of the school year, in particular the pre-school education calendar and the other basic education cycles. The CFP considers that, in fact, the school calendar for 2016 / 2017 raises doubts and concerns in three areas: on the one hand, in terms of the extension of educational activities and, on the other hand, of the differences between the end of the school year for 1. the cycle and for the remaining cycles of basic education and, finally, the differentiation between the educational activity of pre-school education and 1. the cycle of basic education. in fact, it seems to us that the extension of educational activities for another two weeks does not benefit, in pedagogical terms, the learning of children - until they have spent too much time with their educational activities - especially taking into account their ages and the stage of cognitive development in which they are found. We do not want and believe that it will not be the wish of anyone that children will cherish the school as a space and a time of saturation and that they will develop some kind of rentience towards it. in pre-school education the difference compared to 1. the cycle is more than one week of classes. The CFP considers that the existence of different school calendars prevents, in practice, planning, evaluation and articulation between pre-school education and 1. the cycle of basic education, which ends up contrary to what comes in the office of the Ministry of Education, in terms of ensuring the pedagogical follow-up of children in its course between those levels of education and education. The CFP is aware of the difficulties faced by families in responding to social problems that they face and consider their concerns legitimate and fair. We understand, however, that it is necessary to find the right public social response. We have been following the concerns expressed by the school community in these matters relating to the calendar, in particular the differences in the determination of the educational activity for preschool education and for the various cycles in basic education. We have already put forward proposals in view of the resolution of this issue, which persists, and today, with this initiative, the CFP proposes that the Government standardise the school schedule for preschool and basic education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u31	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block would like to welcome the nearly 5,000 petitioners, confident that they represent much more teachers and educators in the already mentioned concern, that the Left Block accompanies and, therefore, presents a draft resolution. This is a concern regarding the definition of the school schedule of children that it has a pedagogical criterion and is not a social response which, in fact, are not these structures, these teachers who have to give. In 2002, this distinction began between the pre-school calendar and the remaining basic education cycles. at the time, the justification given was precisely the idea that it would be for pre-school teachers the social response for children during the educational interruptions. The unions consider this view to be based on discrimination against these teachers, since both the Basic Law in 1986 and all subsequent legislation have come to view preschool not as a social response, not as a response of care to the family, but as a public service of education, and therefore as having a role, a function in the educational system. The Framework Law on Pre-School Education even says that this is the first stage in basic education in the process of lifelong education. This government has also recognized the importance of pre-school education, so it has decided to universalize it for all children. He is decisive in the post-school success of children. This diagnosis is made. in the context of this appreciation of pre-school, we find, as the petitioners find, that there can be no discrimination between these teachers and the other teachers, particularly in relation to the timetable, because, on the one hand, the social response is already given by other structures, and therefore this argument no longer exists, and on the other hand, educators have pedagogical functions assigned and, in particular, evaluation functions that have to articulate with the teachers of the 1. the cycle so that children can then make a accompanied transition between cycles. And the calendar is one of the obstacles that this articulation is made with pedagogical benefits. That is why the Left Block presents a draft resolution, to standardise school calendars. We believe that this is a measure of justice before these teachers and also a measure to introduce a pedagogical criterion in defining the school schedule. What we want is that these educators, who have pedagogical functions, have the right time for the evaluation of children and for the programming of activities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u33	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners here present and by saying that the educators of childhood are part of a special body of Public Administration, with a specific and unique career, and play a fundamental role in the educational journey of children. in this career it is not possible to disregard the changes that occurred in pre-school education over time and that imposed on the educator an intentional and systematic organization of the pedagogical process, which requires a rigorous and responsible planning of their work and an individualized evaluation of the processes and their effects on the development and learning of children. The organization of the educational environment, as a support for its curriculum work and its willfulness, requires the organization of the group, space and time of the educational establishment, the relationship with parents and other educational partners. The planning, coordination and implementation of joint activities, the articulation with teachers of 1. the cycle and the inter and intraparous reflection on the work developed, the weekly planning, the supervision of the activities of animation and support to the family and the participation in the intermediate structures, all this, is part of the responsibility of the educator and their functions. The systematic collection of information in pre-school education must be analyzed and interpreted. It will support the adoption of appropriate decisions to promote the quality and progression of learning to be developed with each child, individually and in groups. In other words, it will determine how the child learns, how it processes information and solves problems. Educational interruptions should be reserved to allow this reflection and thus for the evaluation and articulation moments foreseen with 1. the cycle, which are markedly formative and which, stands out, uses procedures of a descriptive nature and narrative somewhat morbid. The differentiation of the school calendar, which has been successively shaped in the offices on the organization of the school year, the object of the petition, apparently, aims to respond to the needs of families with regard to the occupation of leisure time. Socio-educational animation in the prolongation of hours, after periods of education or during interruptions, is the responsibility of the State and civil society. to children educators is a educational and educational function that is essential and fundamental to the evolution and integration of the child. The evolution of the calendar of pre-school education and 1. the basic education cycle hinders the work described, unwarrantedly overloads the childhood educator and can even obstruct quality pedagogical practices and dynamics. Therefore, the CDS argues that the content of the petition should be considered and the interests and obligations of the public school, which aim, naturally and objectively, children and families, will have to continue properly safeguarded, as it cannot fail to be. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u35	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is awaiting inclusions for interventions on this subject. [[Pause.]] Mrs Maria Augusta Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the petitioners asking the Assembly of the Republic for a pre-school education schedule equal to that of the remaining basic education cycles. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the appreciation of education, particularly pre-school education, is for the 21st Government a programmatic and political imperative. I stress, because of the importance of it, the curricular guidelines for pre-school education that, together with the great bet on the training of educators, constitute an effective appreciation of this level of teaching. The work being carried out in this area will simultaneously impose a reflection on the matrix, in order to provide answers to pressing questions of the curriculum and also allow a reflection on situations of apparent lower equity such as non-integration of the intervals into the educational component of the teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u37	The universalization, already in force, of pre-school education for four-year-olds involved the opening of more than 175 rooms, a number that will certainly increase in the next academic year, resulting from universalization from the three-year period, allowing to achieve a greater objective: effective equal opportunities. Those who gain this educational policy are, in the first place, children, parents and those who are responsible for education, but also children, very clearly. in the petition in appreciation and in the legislative initiatives presented, an unequal treatment is indicated between educators and teachers of the remaining cycles. It should be noted that each level of education has its specific characteristics, including pre-school education and 1. the cycle, which cannot and should not be confused with equality issues. The law determines that the school year has 180 days of classes. Its beginning in the second week of September has been norm, which implies its end at the end of June. However, due to external evaluation, including paragraph 1. the cycle, this date has been anticipated in several schools and / or school cycles in order to ensure each school the conditions necessary for its realization since this evaluation is an integral part of the school year. Objectively and for the reasons added, the situation in pre-school education and 1. the cycle is not equal in that the functions assigned to teachers are not equal either. Match the starting and end calendar of pre-school education and 1. the cycle would involve or anticipate the end of pre-school education activities or prolong the end of 1. the cycle for the dates on which pre-school education ends today. Any of these situations would lead to deep inequalities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the subject in question, it is up to all of us to understand that each level and cycle of education is different,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u38	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u39	... assume that each has its own specificities and conceive a global and integrated view of the education system. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, because it recognizes the greatness of the teacher's mission, is committed to the effective valorization of all teachers and their public recognition. We trust teachers with an emancipated vision, able to enable our young people to build their freedom and autonomy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u40	Mr Maria Germana Rocha, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the nearly 5000 signatories of this petition, which has as its first petition the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators, here present, and which has as its claim that the schedule of pre-school education is equal to that of the remaining cycles of basic education. The PSD, through the implementation of the Social Policy Forum, sought not only to hear individualities linked to these areas but essentially to civil society, with a view to an analysis as comprehensive as possible, particularly in the area of education, in order to make assertive decisions on the multiple subjects involved in this sector, including, of course, pre-school education. It is important to highlight the importance of this phase in the life of any child, from there the trend, which has been followed, of valuing this level of teaching, as well as of consecrating its universality, because it is true that there is no second opportunity for childhood. It is of the most fundamental justice to highlight the crucial role and enormous responsibility of the educator at this stage in the formation of personality, both in the establishment of social relations of the child, in the competences and in the learning process, among many others, through a correct link between the pedagogical component and the socio-educational component. The claim expressed here relates to the organization of the school year which, necessarily, must be thought of in order to balance the various factors on which time depends, education, learning, social factors, as well as the family support component, always in a logic of weighting about available resources and resources or to make available. Pre-school education is, on the one hand, the first level of learning and, on the other hand, the transition period to another level of teaching, and it is therefore for educators to implement the proper preparation for this passage to proceed in a context conducive to the full integration of the child. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u42	in this context, the PSD is working on the reformulation of the Basic Law of the Educational System, which has been in force for 30 years, and the pre-school will certainly be one of the issues to be assessed, with the objective of finding a solution that guarantees the essential and necessary conditions for its development in a harmonious and balanced manner for all actors of the educational community, taking into account the organization of the school network and the school year, which is increasingly of enormous importance in adapting to the existing reality. Finally, I would like to point out that the parties of the current left-wing coalition have already had the opportunity to make the proposed amendment, through the regulatory order of June this year which determined the organization of the school calendar, which did not actually happen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u43	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP again notes that the project we present here corresponds to a very simple question, which is the perspective felt in the reality and in the field of schools by all those who participate more specifically in the construction of the educational project. And indeed, it translates what is the real functioning of schools and also their insertion into the middle. The project we have here today is simple and reflects a perspective that is the appreciation of the public school. This is also a determining issue for us because we believe that the social response cannot be entirely affected only and only for schools, there must be a public response, which must be respected, also in the way of the valorisation of public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u46	In fact, our hope is also that, if these draft resolutions are adopted, we will have a possibility of deepening this debate in the field of expertise, in order to build a response to what is put by the petitioners. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u47	Mrs. Members, concluded the discussion of petition No 109 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and draft resolutions 575 and 580 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), we turn to point 3 of the agenda, which is the assessment of petition No 94 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to recommend to the Government the integration of the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal into the National Health Service, as provided for in the legislation in force ( Decree-Law No 138 / 2013 of 9 October 2013 ), together with draft resolution No 479 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of a national cooperation agreement between the Central Administration of Health Systems IP and the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal for a period of five years in accordance with Article 2 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). Article 3 ( 2 ). Article 8 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the, all of the Decree-Law No 138 / 2013, of 9 October ( PS ). To present the PS draft resolution, Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When I started government functions on March 14, 2005, my clinical analyses did not indicate any problem with blood glucose, or any problem with blood pressure. After four and a half years, after many months of poor feeding, lack of physical exercise, stress, forest fires, full of fogs, road accidents, the truth is that I became more a diabetic and then used this pen every day, which is a glycometer. This « pen» costs 110 € and each Portuguese pays for it 10 €. This is where I would like to play, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that our National Health Service (NSS) is one of the best in the world and, with regard to the treatment of diabetic patients in Portugal, has one of the best benefits that exist in all national health systems in each country. I would also like to say, Mr President, that I am treated in the Protective Association of Diabetics of Portugal ( APDP ), that today brings a petition, where I receive an impeccable treatment, which improves every day, and always with the dedication of its collaborators, doctors and an integral perspective, which is also the allocation of individual research and monitoring to each of the patients. That is why we are here today, Mr President. In other words, taking advantage of the discussion of a petition from the Association Protecting Diabetics of Portugal, it is not only to continue with this Association to address a problem that affects more than 1, 3 million Portuguese, but also to hold a debate around two draft resolutions, one presented by PS and another by PSD, which place diabetics and the fight against diabetes in Portugal at the centre of the political debate. We want this debate to develop, we want the Protective Association of the Diabetics of Portugal to guarantee a preferential relationship with the Ministry of Health, but we also want this Parliament to be able to put debate and attention to what is a huge public health problem in Portugal. Let us all do what we have to do by approving these initiatives that are here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u49	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to congratulate the Members of the PSD Parliament on their representation. Petitioners who subscribed to petition No 94 / XIII ( 1. a ), which we are debating today and through which about 5000 citizens want the Assembly of the Republic to recommend to the Government the integration of this Association into the National Health Service, as provided for in the legislation in force, notably in Decree-Law No 138 / 2013. in the last year, the Protective Association of Diabetics of Portugal has been fighting for the renewal of its cooperation agreement with the National Health Service, so that it can continue to provide integrated and specialized care to more than 30,000 patients with diabetes, including Mr. Ascenso Simões. The PSD Parliamentary Group has repeatedly urged the Government to renew this agreement, which has done in almost all parliamentary hearings by the Minister of Health and even in the debate on the State budget, and rightly so, I would add. To this end we also presented draft resolution No 485/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) by which we recommend to the Government compliance with the recommendations already adopted in the Assembly of the Republic on diabetes, the renewal of the cooperation agreement with this Association and the establishment of reference centres in the field of diabetes. After a year of promises, delays, announcements and statements of intention for text correction already to the next day, the news finally emerged that the Government gave guidance to the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley to renew the cooperation agreement with this Association. Unfortunately, we also know that the new agreement, in addition to cutting 2, 5 % in the financing of the Association, does not meet or corresponds to the legitimate expectation of this IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) to be integrated into the National Health Service. However, Article 2 ( 3 ). that of Decree-Law No 138/2013 provides that « The cooperation agreement aims to integrate a health establishment belonging to the IPSS into the SNS, which starts to provide health benefits in accordance with the other institutions of the SNS ». The intention of this Association continues to be met and the PSD will continue to struggle for the effective integration of this Association into the SNS, in agreement with the law governing the link between the SNS and the social sector. We will also strive to ensure that the next cooperation agreement between SNS and APDP is concluded not by an ARS but by ACSS, the Central Health System Administration, because only in this way new initiatives to support and provide health care to diabetics can be carried out, particularly by this Association, also in the northern and central regions of the country. This is a fight that does not end here today, so we will schedule for next year the discussion of the PSD resolution project, through which APDP is intended to be able to provide health care to diabetic patients in terms identical to those established in the SNS, thus integrating this Association into the National Health Service and officially recognizing APDP as a reference center for the treatment of diabetes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u51	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I begin by congratulating the Protecting Association of the Diabetics of Portugal, which is present here, and also the more than 4896 citizens who have subscribed to this petition. The PCP welcomes and values the work that the Association Protector of Diabetics of Portugal has developed over its 90 years of existence. In fact, diabetes is a huge and growing public health problem in Portugal, which has already been assumed by both the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Directorate-General for Health itself. It has already been said that in Portugal official data reveal that more than 1 million Portuguese suffer from diabetes and it is, as we all know, a chronic disease with numerous complications, being the main cause of blindness, renal failure and lower limb amputation, and therefore is one of the main causes of death, mainly because it involves a significantly increased risk of coronary disease and stroke (CVA). The work carried out by APDP has greatly contributed to the training, prevention and treatment of people with diabetes and was, in fact, the recognition of the work, monitoring and treatment that is done by APDP in complementarity with the National Health Service that was in the genesis of the conclusion of the protocol between APDP and the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, which was recently reaffirmed and will last until 2019. The PCP monitors and, as we said above, values the work done by APDP, the role of complementarity to the provision of health care of the National Health Service and the existing cooperation. As regards the initiative submitted by the PS Parliamentary Group, the CFP cannot follow it in so far as it is based on a decree which the CFP rejects. It should be noted that Decree-Law No 138 / 2013 of 9 October aims at disresponsibility of the State of the assumption of health care, which we reject and translate our opposition, through the presentation of initiatives that repeal that Decree-Law. In Portugal, the fight against diabetes has to continue and deepen, which must be pursued through the strengthening of prevention programmes such as diabetic retinopathy screening programmes, and joint ventures with other ministries and local authorities should be encouraged in order to promote healthy lifestyles and engage other entities such as APDP in this fight. This is why we must fight; this is why the CFP works every day. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u53	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I begin by greeting the petitioners, in particular the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal, which is finally recognized and as we all know, a pioneer institution in Portugal. She was a pioneer in 1926 at the time of her founding and the provision of insulin to diabetics in Portugal, and continues to be a pioneer today in many aspects, whether in prevention education, whether in the therapy available to her users, either by allowing access to devices that allow control of the disease, either in training for the patient's self-care, their family members, informal caregivers, for example, in screening or in periodic surveillance. It was, long before the creation of the National Health Service, a very important institution for the provision of health care in Portugal and has been, after the creation of the National Health Service, a fundamental partner of our public health service, in particular with regard to the provision of health care to diabetics and diabetics in Portugal. Diabetes is, as we know, an epidemic—it has already been said—affects more than 1 million Portuguese and Portuguese. It is a disease that reduces the average life expectancy, which greatly reduces the quality of life, which accounts for 4% of deaths in Portugal, 29% of admissions for stroke - and 33% of admissions for heart disease are people with diabetes. It is the main cause of non-traumatic amputation, the biggest cause of blindness in Portugal, and we could continue here to understand the dimension of the problem. In view of such a large dimension, it is also necessary to create a large and dimensional response, create synergies and complementarity with the National Health Service and between the SNS and APDP, in particular. For the Left Block, this question and other similar ones always form very clear. The National Health Service should establish cooperation agreements where it cannot give the full answer, should take advantage of complementarity with the institutions that complement the response of the National Health Service. For this reason, we welcome not only the role of APDP in the past and in the present as we want to highlight the role of APDP in the future. In order to ensure this complementary role, to ensure the functioning of the APDP for the future and to ensure that they will continue to do what they do, including training within the National Health Service itself, it is necessary to establish multiannual contracts that guarantee stability, funding capacity, operating capacity and planning capacity. Therefore, the position of the Left Block is precisely that, stressing the importance, complementarity and need for the establishment of these multiannual contracts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u55	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, to greet the thousands of subscribers of the petition under discussion, this greeting which also extends to the Protective Association of the Diabetics of Portugal, not only for promoting and dynamizing this petition but also for all the work that has been developing throughout its 90 years of existence, in the protection of people with diabetes and, above all, of people with economic shortage. in accordance with the text of the petition, the petitioners want this House to recommend to the Government the integration of the Protective Association of the Diabetics of Portugal into the National Health Service, as provided for in the legislation in force, in particular in Decree-Law No 138/2013 of 9 October, as the petitioners refer to. Now, considering the importance of this Association for the monitoring of people with diabetes, as it is, moreover, an institution of differentiated care with multidisciplinary intervention in the prevention, treatment and investigation of diabetes, considering that this Association occupies the first place among the 900 world level of therapeutic education and, inclusively, constitutes a collaborative centre in the World Health Organization and finally considering that its work was formally recognized as of higher social interest, recognition of this done through a joint department of the Ministries of Health and Economics, in view of all these considerations, The Greens not only recognize how they value the excellent work of the Association Protecting the Diabetics of Portugal, a serious and productive work. However, in the perspective of the Ecological Party « Les Verdes », the work of the Association Protection of Diabetics of Portugal should always have a complementary nature vis-à-vis the National Health Service, as it has also been happening, and more specifically on 29 November last year, was expressed in the protocol established between the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley and the Association Protection of Diabetics of Portugal itself, which, in fact, will extend until 2019. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Greens value and recognize the work of the Association Protecting Diabetics of Portugal, but this excellent work should always have a complementary nature to the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u57	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal, which led almost 5000 citizens to subscribe to this petition, and also, in addition to the APDP, all these citizens who, with this civic attitude so important, made this subject come to the discussion in this plenary. It is undeniable, as APDP says, that diabetes has become a real epidemic and that inevitably needs to be seen as a priority in health policies. It should be remembered that more than 13% of the Portuguese population, between the ages of 20 and 79, suffers from diabetes, and there is still an increase in type I diabetes among children and young people. And despite the clear improvements in therapy and disease monitoring, it is essential to promote concrete strengthening in diabetes policies. We all know that diabetes has a significant role in the causes of death, at the origin of about 4% of the deaths that occurred, and represents on average eight years of life lost for each death due to diabetes in the population under 70 years of age. If not properly monitored and controlled, it leads, as you know, to numerous complications, such as kidney disease, blindness and foot amputation. Diabetes policies should therefore focus on prevention, health literacy and, of course, early diagnosis. But also in adequate follow-up in access to therapies, as well as in improving the care provided to those who suffer from this disease. And here APDP has played an unmistakable role in the training of professionals. The social sector together with the public and private sectors form the three pillars of the Portuguese health system as defined in the Constitution and the Health Bases Act, in addition to the legislation already mentioned herein 2013. These pillars need to be complemented and, by doing so, we cannot waste the resources available in each sector. All Portuguese, diabetic and non-diabetic, therefore, have a huge duty of gratitude to APDP, which in the last 90 years of exemplary activity while IPSS, develops a crucial role in this complementarity. We believe that APDP should go beyond this mere complementarity and should strengthen its role through not only in agreement with the Regional Administration of Health of Lisbon and Tejo Valley but also with more general agreements. While IPSS, the clinical, technical, human and personalized monitoring capital of patients cannot be devalued.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u59	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. The CDS has always advocated a strategy to develop and increase cooperation with the social sector. And this, Mrs Carla Cruz, is not deresponsibility of the State, is the State to take advantage of all the resources existing in society, such as the APDP, which has acquired knowledge, evidence given and can give even more to all Portuguese citizens and health policies. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u61	Mrs. Members, we turn to the next item on the agenda, which is part of the joint assessment of petition No 58/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Teresa Mafalda de Aguiar Frazão and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to create appropriate legislation to prevent trade in animals in advertisements of classified pages on the Internet and, in general, of the projects of lein.o 359 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the purchase and sale of pet animals ( PAN) and 360 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the impossibility of using the Internet to announce the sale of wild animals ( NAPs ). For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u62	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the petition under discussion brings an important issue to the Assembly of the Republic: the purchase and sale of animals. We have already taken the opportunity to congratulate the subscribers of this relevant initiative. Because of the different circumstances for domestic animals and wild animals, the NAP presents two distinct legislative initiatives. The first initiative is essentially due to the absence of rules and requirements for the purchase and sale of pet animals, which represents a huge potential for ridicule, a problem of tax evasion, in addition to ensuring good practices of animal welfare and enabling the abandonment of animals. The NAP therefore proposes the creation of a register of breeders. In addition, the sale of an animal on the Internet must meet certain requirements, in particular the obligation to identify the breeder through a single assigned number, and it is possible for competent entities and buyers to have access to its name and contacts. All animals sold shall be identified electronically, vaccinated and their sale shall always be accompanied by a medical veterinary declaration attesting that the animal is in good health. The second proposal of the NAP determines the impossibility of using the Internet to announce the sale of wild animals. If you access one of the online shopping and selling platforms, you can easily find sales ads of merikatas, snakes and other reptiles, tarantulas, as well as other exotic animals, without any regulation ensuring that buyers are aware of the specific needs of these animals and of the consequences for the safety of people and animals themselves. In addition, the purchase and sale of such animals promotes their traffic, and the use of the Internet facilitates the practice of crime, as it allows the most potential buyers to arrive, as well as makes it difficult for the police to identify the offenders and act accordingly. It should be noted that wild animals have their own ecological value and needs, which are hardly guaranteed in a domestic experience. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP considers that it is time to take more of this step, to want more and better for people, but also for animals, thus contributing to a more harmonious and secure coexistence among the various stakeholders in the purchase and sale of animals. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u63	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition is a good example of how society can alert political power to situations that do not leave us indifferent, or, better, that cannot leave us indifferent. And we cannot be indifferent to situations that have been reported and proved by the representatives of the petition, when they were heard in hearing, in the process of drawing up the petition report, of which I was rapporteur. During the hearing, I was confronted with announcements of selling animals on the Internet with levels of unimaginable cruelty, which can raise ethical and legal issues. To what extent do we feel comfortable, when we are confronted with advertisements that aim to trade domestic animals by mobile phones, games, or a jiboa by a motorcycle, or other animals by domestic appliances, aggravated by the fact that these animals are created in captivity without the health conditions and with high potential for ill-treatment? On the other hand, there are clear situations of violation of the law itself, such as the sale of large feline or primates, whose sale is illegal in Portugal, or situations of sale of animals which are protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wildlife and Wild Flora ( referred to as CITES ) and whose seller is not properly registered at the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Application No 58 / XIII ( 1 ) (a) alerts us to the uncontrollability of what is happening in this market for sale of animals via the Internet, which is causing a lot of protest reactions, both in Portugal and in other countries, and seeks to create adequate legislation with heavy penalties that prevents trade in animals in advertisements of classified pages on the Internet. in this sense, we will vote in favour of the two draft laws submitted by the NAP, which we naturally welcome, because we consider having matter for discussion and, in particular, there is the possibility of merging the two diplomas into one, in addition to we consider that regulation of the sale through electronic platforms is certainly not an easy approach issue and that requires thought and warning, especially when we cannot deny reality. This reality is that selling through the Internet seems to have come to stay, but we will do everything so that these degrading images are not a reality in a society that we want to develop and worry about animal welfare. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u65	Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the 5670 petitioners who have resolved to bring to the Assembly of the Republic this theme of concern about the welfare and dignity of pets. We can agree whether or not we agree with the content of the petitions, but we believe that it is always to praise any kind of initiatives in which citizens are concerned about the problems of our society, in this case the welfare of animals and the consequences of their marketing. I would like to congratulate the undersigned Member on his legislative initiatives. The two bills are made in a seemingly autonomous way, but it must be pointed out that there is already a lot of legislation on the issue of trade in animals, national and international, and hence the need for enhanced care. in a simple consultation with the ICNF page, we were able to verify (and any citizen can do so) that, regarding references to legal diplomas on this subject, we found four pages of international legislation and conventions. The PSD has always considered it to be at the forefront of this issue, and it is important to point out that ill-treatment of pets is already criminalized criminally since the time of the PSD/CDS-PP coalition government. In fact—we think it is important to leave the note that Law No. 69 / 2014 of August 29 came to criminalize acts against pets. Nevertheless, we consider it important to discuss the modernisation of the regime, to promote more conditions for animal welfare, to strengthen supervision, to protect farmers, to combat tax evasion in this area, among other matters. in concrete, there are questions that deserve reflection to not come later to raise problems or raise perplexities. After all, pets are today also fish, tarantulas, snakes, iguanas and many others, and it is important that the law can reflect this reality. with regard to advertising, the Internet is transnational. An activity in Portugal can be banned, we cannot do so in the world, nor should we unduly harm the Portuguese economic operators. It is important to discuss advertising for sale of animals, but we must be able to reconcile all protective interests. By setting new standards, they must aim for general interests, being important to equalize what is preferable, whether to see the pictures of animals on the Internet, in newspapers, in magazines, or to see them locked in a cage, even golden and cushioned, in any commercial establishment. Bills are to be praised, but they can be greatly improved, during their discussion, in the confrontation and balance with existing legislation and with the contributions of all relevant entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u68	For the PSD, it is important to discuss a coherent legal regime on the purchase and sale of pet animals, and therefore it is important to reflect on what is intended, balancing all interests worthy of protection, the interests of animals, but reconciling them with those of people. For example, this bill apparently prohibits individuals from selling pet animals and meets here to ask if that is what is intended. We therefore call for these two draft diplomas to be able to be downgraded to the Commission, preferably without a vote, so that all the relevant contributions are collected, and we are sure that there is full availability for this discussion on the part of the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u69	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I would like to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition and also the associations involved in the dynamization of this important instrument of our participatory democracy, the GARRA (Animal Resources Support and Claim Group ) and the AMOVER ( Association of Strategic Reference Movements ). The petitioners express themselves — and in our view, well — against the disclosure of classified animal advertisements on Internet pages and, in fact, what we are looking at today is that several Internet platforms allow publications that eventually reduce animals to simple goods and to mere objects. It is true that today, in legislative terms, animals are not — I would say, they are not yet — considered to be sensitious beings and therefore deserving of greater legal protection, so there is a need for regulation that respects the physical and behavioural needs of animals, according to their kind. It should be a regulation that may create mechanisms for trade not putting species at risk of extinction or preventing or preventing the proliferation of animal abuse crimes. Therefore, we accompany the concerns of petitioners regarding the disclosure of classified animal advertisements on Internet pages that promote the sale and trafficking of exotic species or native species and that stimulate trade in domestic and pet animals without any concern about their well-being. We accompany the petitioners and we also follow the NAP on the two initiatives which today also bring the discussion. We follow the NAP on the initiative to regulate the purchase and sale of pet animals and also follow the NAP on its legislative initiative which determines the impossibility of using the Internet to announce the sale of wild animals. We follow up not only because the NAP will certainly be open to other discussions in the Commission, but also because the initiatives seek to respond to the claims of the petitioners. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PAN and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u71	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subscribers of this petition, which comply, recognise that the law already provides for the prohibition they wish, and that is what they are right about. The law also provides for the application of sanctions, therefore, in situations such as those mentioned in the petition. However, petitioners support their claim that the reported situations occur in a proliferated manner on websites on the Internet, such sites without control, whose classified ads confirm the infringements. to request that it be read in such a way as to prevent the disclosure and trade of animals in ads of classified online pages and thus to avoid the practice of illegalities. However, it is our understanding that the rules which they intend to implement will clearly cover the nature of legal redundancy, and as such are perfectly indispensable, since they will only reaffirm the prohibition of something which is already prohibited and punished by law. On the other hand, and with the exception of better opinion, on the grounds of violating the basic values and principles of modern society, we do not think that it is legally possible to restrict the form and means of marketing or transmission, free of charge or not, of animal species, regardless of whether or not they are meeting the legal requirements, which, most of the time, are not patented by the announcements of themselves. Moreover, the generalization and empowerment of the situations described appear to be excessive. It is up to the competent authorities, in exercising their supervisory duty, to confirm the illegal ones and, where appropriate, to follow up and promote the procedures for the protection of the animals concerned, to interrupt the criminal activity and to implement appropriate economic and criminal sanctions. It should also be noted that, thanks to the content of the ads published online, the detection, denunciation and prosecution of the precursors and consequently the execution of the supervisory mission may be greatly facilitated. Non-monitoring, because of inability or mere lack of interest in compliance and respect for existing regulations is unacceptable, but it does not seem to us to be quite a reason for a banist outbreak, perhaps of illegal contours, depolated by those who do not comply with the law or do not enforce it, even though it is obliged to do so. It is that the non-observance of the possible ban on online publication of notices would presumably result in the establishment of counter-ordination procedures and the application of mere fines, when what is really to be concerned is the serious criminalization of conduct whose seriousness will even have to be characterized as a crime and justify being punished accordingly. It is intended to cite, with due regard, the opinion of the Society and Animals Platform, where it can be read, in addition, that is not because of the prohibition to announce that the State guarantees compliance with the law. It is through the supervision that the law is enforced and it does not seem that the mere prohibition of using digital platforms that are at the disposal of the citizen for the most various purposes and in a global way prevents the violation of the law. It would be an unacceptable restriction, which would violate the principles of competition, particularly between media and advertising, because there will always be other means of promotion than those who want to restrict.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u73	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u74	I will finish, Madam President. It would collid with global trade and with the globalization of social activities through computer networks that are international, global and dematerialized. These networks, in turn, are regulated internationally and countries cannot be excluded from them. For these and so many other reasons...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u75	And to conclude...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u76	Exactly, Madam President. In conclusion, on these and many other equally sound and relevant grounds, but which here is not possible to list given the shortness of time available, it is the view of the CDS that the claim under consideration should not be accepted. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u77	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party and as regards petition No 58 / XIII ( 1. ( a) I would like to greet the honourable Members. Petitioners present here, as well as 5670 subscribers to this initiative, asking for legislation to be created for the disclosure of classified animal advertisements on Internet pages, thus showing concern about animal welfare, in particular with regard to the conditions of sale and possession of animals through Internet classified ads. in fact, animal welfare issues have been a growing concern among people, who are increasingly engaged in defending protection and respect for animals. The CFP considers that the existence of animal abuse and abandonment of pet animals is unavoidable and that measures and mechanisms should be taken to prevent this situation and that measures should be taken to favour the educational and pedagogical plan of promoting animal welfare, respect for harmonious coexistence between human beings and other animals of nature. With regard to the petition under consideration, and recognizing the arguments made by the petitioners to minimize the crime of animal abuse, to promote animal welfare and animal health, to defend, including the health of buyers, to prevent exotic animals from being extinct, to prevent the marketing of exotic animals outside the law, the CFP considers that the focus of the problem is not precisely on the prohibition of the sale of animals by the Internet, but rather, in the lack of means by which the responsible entities confront themselves to investigate, control and monitor these situations. In fact, these practices can be effectively overcome by the application of a regulation on the sale of animals via the Internet which follows the same rules applied in specialised stores, thus minimizing the crimes of abuse to animals, the illegal sale of exotic animals, protecting both animals and the people who buy them. In order to fulfil the desire to protect animals, it is important, above all, to reiterate the need to provide means for the competent authorities to effectively monitor and monitor situations which so require. I would also like to point out that the CFP will continue to monitor, as it has always done, issues that are going to minimize or avoid animal suffering and promote animal welfare. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u79	On behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the petitioners asking this House for appropriate legislation on animal trade in classified page ads on the Internet and we would like to accompany the legislative initiatives of the NAP that go so far, for which improvement we want to contribute during its discussion, in particular. Since a long time ago, the Left Block has been sensitive to the evolution that human relations with animals have recorded and fought against the coizification of the most vulnerable beings in this relationship. in this sense, the Block has come to present legislative initiatives—some of which we will have the opportunity to appreciate in plenary, tomorrow itself—which aim at increasing awareness of the community for animal welfare, its effective protection and its dignity as long as beings who should not be looked at as things and, before, must have their own legal status. It is our deep conviction that the legal holder of an animal must ensure its well-being, respect the characteristics of each species and observe, in the exercise of its rights, the special provisions on the creation, reproduction, detention and protection of animal species, especially of the species at risk. In addition to incorporating demanding technical and legal requirements, trade in animals should not therefore be immune to the regulatory steps given to the ‘decoil’ of the legal status of animals in the understanding of the Left Block. What we do in this sense, with wisdom but with determination, will only dignify us. And for this reason, petitioners and other citizens can be assured that any and all actions of the Left Block will always be in the interest of promoting the protection, well-being and dignity of the animals concerned. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u81	The joint assessment of petition No 58 / XIII ( 1 ) is thus concluded. ( a ) and of the projects of lein.o 359 and 360 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) the following item on the agenda is the assessment of petition No 83 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Portuguese Association of Numerous Families ( APFN ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to establish the Brother's Day on 31 May, together with draft resolution No 579 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrate on 31 May as the Day of the Brothers ( CDS-PP ). To present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the Portuguese Association of Numerous Families, which has organised this petition, as well as all the citizens who have subscribed to it. This is a subject that tells the CDS a lot and for that reason we have re-presented a draft resolution dedicating May 31 as the Brother's Day, going to meet the desired by the petitioners. For the CDS, the family is the nuclear cell that receives, powers and promotes human life. Any political vision for the future can never stop putting the family in its center. This is, for example, the question of falling birth, which requires integrated policies to enable families to have the children they wish. Recent data tell us that one fifth of Portuguese at a fertility age wishes to have more children. Therefore, the family of the only child and a society of the only child are not desirable. Furthermore, it is not too important to stress the importance of brothers to learn values such as friendship, solidarity, mutual assistance, whether in a family or in society. The petitioners draw attention to the fact that the Mother's Day is already celebrated on the first Sunday of May and on the 15th of May the International Family Day. So we followed the suggestion of May 31 to be Brother's Day. The CDS hopes that this draft resolution will not have the same fate as the previous one and that the spirit of Christmas illuminates the parliamentary groups, especially those on the left, who have plunged this same initiative in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u83	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u84	I confess that I find it strange that a value such as fraternity, so expensive on the left, has deserved censorship on its part and has not obtained the necessary support for the Brother's Day to be consecrated. I hope that this initiative will finally be adopted following this petition and this draft resolution, thus dedicating itself to Brother's Day. I end up wishing everyone a Holy Christmas. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u85	Mr José Rui Cruz of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Family Association Numerous submitted on 22 March 2016 a petition with a view to the institution of the Brother's Day to be held annually on 31 May, following other dates that are dedicated to the family also during the month of May. We, PS understand the reasons of the Petitionary Association, which we congratulate, and we understand the importance that is given to the relationship between brothers in the family and in society. We also understand that the affection that the human being receives is that given to him by his parenting family and by his brothers. This affection is crucial for the good development of the child and its happiness as a human being. That is why we cannot follow the reasons on which the CDS-PP draft resolution is based, which seeks to justify the institution of Brother's Day on the basis of the argument of falling birth. It will certainly not be the creation on the calendar of Brother's Day that will increase birth in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u87	Abstinence solves!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u88	If that were the case, it would be very easy to solve the problem. The trend that VV. They point out to the family of the only child is not a recent phenomenon, it is a phenomenon that accompanies the process of globalization that the Western society has known for several decades and that, despite its evils, it has brought, among other positive aspects, the improvement of the living conditions of the populations, the emancipation of women and their massive entry into the labour market, the increase of their levels of literary qualifications and greater control over their own life, their body and their reproductive life, the diversification of opportunities for men and women, geographical mobility between countries and cultural diversity. The postponement of the first child is not a matter of motherhood, it is a matter of motherhood and paternity. And the only child's family is not a fatality, for many it is an option. The Socialist Party recognizes the various forms of family and therefore supported and promoted legislation that allows adoption by homosexual couples, as well as approved legislation in the field of assisted drug reproduction. We believe that the increase in the birth rate is not promoted with calendar efemerides, that is, with concrete fiscal and economic measures, in the context of family incomes, in the context of social action at school, in the field of health, as can be found in the State budget that we have recently approved. We did the opposite of VV. Ex.as did in the previous legislation, which both cut in the incomes of Portuguese families. These are, yes, measures to support the family, measures for which there is reason to celebrate without a date marked on the calendar. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u89	For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all I congratulate the subscribers of petition No 83 / XIII on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group ( 1 ). ( a ), some present in the gallery. Allow me, in particular, to congratulate our former colleague, Dr. Ribeiro and Castro, for the persistence and perseverance in bringing to the discussion of this House the creation of the Brother's Day, thus also paying tribute to his brother, Eng. Fernando Ribeiro and Castro, founder of the Portuguese Association of Numerous Families and the European Confederation of Numerous Families, in honor of the families. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese Association of Numerous Families and the other subscribers intend that the Assembly of the Republic create the Brothers' Day and that this day be celebrated annually on 31 May, which is the month in which Mother's Day and International Family Day is celebrated, thus honoring all families. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party is a humanist, personalist party, where the family plays a dominant role. The family is the basis of any contemporary society. The genetic and physical proximity of human beings with their family marks and develops strong emotional ties, because it is the family that transmits affections, love, affection, solidarity, respect, truth and fraternity, and it is with it that we build and acquire the ethical, moral and humanist values that we have and are people. The subscribers, with the presentation of this petition, intend to point out and exalt one of the strongest relations of generation and family support and celebrate the existence of children within families. As you read in the petition text, and I quote, "If you want to see a happy child, give it a brother. If you want to see a very happy child, give it many brothers». This is the phrase that marks the spirit of this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to mark May 31 as the Brother's Day, in addition to the celebration of fraternity and family solidarity, is with an added civic value, at a time when some countries, like Portugal, are faced with low birth rates. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, people and the family are and have always been important, so these types of issues must obtain political consensus. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u91	For a second speech, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We record the silence of some benches on this subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u93	We are in abstinence of language!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u94	... an issue that we consider important and which is already of interest to demystify. You may want to support the initiative, even to reduce it to the question of birth, but the truth is that we also spoke in birth and fraternity, a value that is, as I said, dear to the left. And what is important is that the celebration of Brotherly Day — and in order to have brothers there must be more than one child — is important for our society today and for the family that we all want and that most couples want. Most couples want to have more children! [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u95	If you want to talk, you can sign up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u96	Mrs. Members, who is in use of the word is Mr.António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u97	I note the parts on the left, which you chose not to intervene in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u98	The gentlemen. Members on the left have time to intervene!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u99	Just for pure prejudice is that you do not follow either the petition or the draft resolution, which intends to establish May 31 as the Brothers' Day, and I say "brothers" in plural and not singularly to, taking into account a previous call for attention, correct the error, because sisters are also on an equal footing, as is evident. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u100	With no further inscriptions, we will continue with the discussion of the sixth and last item of our agenda today, which consists in the assessment of petition No 306 / XII ( 3 ). a ) — Submitted by Ana Clara Zaluar Nunes Basilio and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic that the Centro de Rehabilitation de Paralisia Cerebral Calouste Gulbenkian remain in the equipment network of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate Mrs Ana Clara Zaluar and, in her person, all petitioners. Application No 306 / XII ( 3. a ) expresses a concern that assists hundreds of families and which the Socialist Party shares, which is that the current and future users of the Centro de Rehabilitation de Paralisia Cerebral Calouste Gulbenkian can continue to have guaranteed the quality of support and follow-up that has been provided to them so far in the management of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. We know of the efforts being made both by the Government and by the Social Security Institute through the Lisbon District Centre. This is a process that has problems associated and not all of them are easy to solve, so it must also be borne in mind, of course, the commitment of all the entities involved. Therefore, I would like to highlight the Lisboa Brain Paralysis Association ( APCL ), which owns the space where today the Centro de Rehabilitation de Paralysis Cerebral Calouste Gulbenkian works. The Socialist Party believes that it is a problem that goes beyond the mere question of the building, in addition to the costs involved, and that all efforts must be made to safeguard the interests of the more than 800 existing users. The urgency of a solution is recognised as the amendment to Article 4. the Decree-Law No 68 / 2016 extended the period of temporary assignment of the management conferred on the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa until 30 September 2017. Finally, it considers the Socialist Party that, with the best view, the service provided, given its importance, should be maintained, regardless of social equipment, within the framework of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. We therefore hope that the negotiations that are taking place between the parties involved will be able to come to an end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u102	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to begin by welcoming the main leaders of this petition. It is a petition that realises, of course, the patience these petitioners have had, because the petition is 2013 and only now, three years ago, is that we have the opportunity to discuss in plenary. We know that this is a long process, it is a process in which initially there was quite resistance to this equipment passing from the Institute of Social Security to the Holy House of Mercy — in fact, it was the Government of the Socialist Party that in 2011 started this process, transferring this equipment, together with others, to the scope of the Holy House of Mercy, and since then it has been found, for reasons that have to do with the evaluation of efficiency, that the most targeted institutions for certain airlines would have the conditions to develop this activity, going to meet the actual needs of users. That is what was at the basis of the decision to transfer this equipment to the Lisboa Brain Paralysis Association, already after this petition was submitted in 2014. In this respect, the CDS is, of course, open to discussion. It is true that, in committee, we have repeatedly asked the Government about this by asking for information on the progress of the negotiations, and the fact is that the two requests we have made have not yet been answered. It was important, in fact, to make the point of the situation, that we had an answer from the government and that this could tell us about the state of the art. In view of this, what we can say is that the CDS is sensitive to the claim of petitioners, believing that there should be an efficiency weighting and, if this is against the interests of the users, the speciality of the activity that is developed, the institutions that are on the ground, and the Lisboa Brain Paralysis Association is one of them. So we also understand that this tripartite weighting should be done in this area, without prejudice, as I said, that we cannot have a final word, because we do not have the information that the government should have given. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u104	Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the petitioners who have taken the initiative and the commitment they have to seek a solution for a situation that has been dragged down for too many years, seeking solutions that correspond to the interests of people with disabilities and their families. Today we receive an opinion from the Government and there is some contradiction in what informs us. On the one hand, he tells us that he is inclined to manage the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, but on the other hand, he reports that a proposal from the Lisboa Brain Paralysis Association is still under consideration. Our position is clear: the Centro de Rehabilitation de Paralysia Cerebral Calouste Gulbenkian is a reference for rehabilitation in the area of cerebral paralysis in Portugal, so we believe that the management of this important equipment should be public again, as it was from 1978 to 2011, when the APCL, due to difficulties in management, delivered the equipment to the public service. They have been more than 30 years of public service, they are more than 30 years of accumulated experience. We therefore want to restore the public management of this equipment, which recovers from the bleeding of 35 % of employees, which has decreased over the last 10 years, which strengthens the role of centre of excellence in this area. The Centre, in addition to its key role in the rehabilitation and social inclusion of its users, plays an important role in the research and training of technicians, which are needed in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u106	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CFP, I would like to greet the petitioners and, above all, to say that if, in 2016, we are discussing this matter, it was because the petitioners dynamized and pressured the Assembly of the Republic to block a decision by the previous Government, PSD and CDS, that decision, which could have called into question the response to these users. The story of this petition is three years old. The former Government, PSD and CDS, decided that, with the end of the protocol of the Centro de Rehabilitation de Paralisia Cerebral Calouste Gulbenkian de Lisboa with the Santa Casa da Misericórdia, there was an Association that would have the necessary response that this Centre ensures. It turns out that this decision of the former Government was made on the backs of the workers and their representative structures, which led them to dynamize and alert the Assembly of the Republic, firstly, to the fact that they had not been found in the process and, secondly, to what this meant. In fact, it is important to remember that, unfortunately, this petition remains up to date and the problem remains to be resolved, that at present the workers informed the Assembly that their concern was, above all, related to the fact that the 2012 activity and accounts report — and this decision was 2013, so it could only be referred to 2012 — of the Lisbon Brain Paralysis Association, it is read, have been marked by extreme treasury difficulties and that the greatest concern continues to reside in the economic and financial area, in an imbalance of operating accounts and high indebtedness. Therefore, professionals, naturally concerned with their job and with the response of the Calouste Gulbenkian Brain Paralysis Rehabilitation Centre, questioned how, in the face of a report of activities and accounts marked by this characterization, Minister Mota Soares could be deciding on the issue of this responsibility for the Lisbon Brain Paralysis Association. Mr President, on this subject, we have questioned the current government and we have not had an answer—we have indeed followed this matter with great concern, because this process reveals the consequences of the deresponsibility of the State. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] Mr President, I have listened carefully to you. I would ask you, at least, to listen to me as well. We understand that this process reveals exactly that, i.e. the consequences of the desponsability of the State. The Centre for the Rehabilitation of Cerebral Paralysis Calouste Gulbenkian was integrated into social security, social security moved to the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon and now the current government has not decided - and that is what the previous Government wanted — whether the Centre will or will not switch to an association with other purposes that do not heed the important answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u108	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u109	So, Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia, I will say, first of all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u110	Mrs. Deputy, first and last.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u111	... that the proposal of the CFP is that the Centre should have public custody, because that is the only way to safeguard the response that is guaranteed. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] Our concern is not the privatization of the management of the Centre, it is the guarantee of its public management, respect for users, the specific response this Centre provides and its professionals. We will therefore continue, as we have done over the past three years, to follow this matter with great concern. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u112	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The exercise of the right to petition is, of course, not only due to a right that we regularly greet in the House of the Republic — as we should do — but then assume specificities according to what the petitioners claim, whether they are asking the House to take a position when it is in the Assembly's scope to do so or, as in the case of the petition we are now discussing, when what is at stake is ultimately a situation of distress and it is intended that the House may, in our understanding, try to pressure it to be resolved. Especially because of this and because I had the opportunity to accompany this petition from the outset, I would particularly like to welcome the honourable Members. Petitioners who are in representation in the gallery and say that yes, it is true, it was very thanks to the pressure and the non-desistence of those who, at a certain time, do not even get the answers that are due to them that we are discussing the petition. After the intervention, above all, of the Portuguese Communist Party, I must say that I am amazed, because everything I heard was a set of lies — we will forget the inverted euphemism. I must even remember that the CFP, and indeed in compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic — we had this debate several times and it is before our Commission — I understood, and I was the rapporteur with that responsibility, that this petition should have been closed much earlier because, indeed, it is three years old. I assume in plenary of that same Commission that I would prefer that you call me a Member who will give me off-limits rather than make a final effort so that petitioners would feel that the government would give them an answer. This is because the first request for information to this Government was made in January of this year and the second one, the strengthening of the request for information, was in April and, compared with this, we had indeed to close this petition. Today, and from there the confusion of the CDS Member, but which is to be understood, the Government has responded to requests for information in January and April. Therefore, it is not true what Mrs Rita Rato said, as it is not true that the previous government wanted to hand over the Centre to the Lisbon Brain Paralysis Association. Nor is it necessary to take into account what I say or what the PSD Parliamentary Group, the CDS or the previous Government say, simply read the response that this Government gave to this House today. It is that the building is of the Lisboa Brain Paralysis Association and, as such, cannot be excluded from the equation of who will be responsible for the Calouste Gulbenkian Brain Paralysis Rehabilitation Center or not. It's obvious! There is no doubt about it and there is no malapata here. We also praise that this ideological prejudice that does not matter who does best, what matters is that whether the State has, by the way, reverted—it apparently has returned all over the left. at the end of the day, we don't care. What matters to us is that the users, the more than 800 with whom this Centre contacts each year, such as the employees and the parents of the users, which brought us to this: the Holy House of Mercy in Lisbon is the one that can best deal with this subject, but there is a problem to be solved, and that is why it is under consideration. It is under discussion with the same actors from the beginning, as it is now. This is not an invention of the previous government and much less of the idea that, at some point, the PSD wanted to block this discussion; quite the contrary, as you will certainly remember, Mrs Rita Rato. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-12-21.u114	Thus, the assessment of petition No 306 / XII ( 3 ) is completed. ( a) the last item on our agenda today. Before announcing the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, at the request of the President, I would like to remind you that the traditional Christmas snack of Parliament will now be held with the officials and their families. Mr President, the invitation to be present is now being extended. I take advantage of this, if this is the last opportunity to speak to you, to wish you a good Christmas on your own behalf. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, 22 December, Thursday, beginning at 3 p.m. the first point is the 15th year discussion with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, with the following order of questions : PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN. in the second point, the proposals for resolutions 24 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016, 25 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Principality of Andorra to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in New York on 27 September 2015, 29 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Services between the Portuguese Republic and the United Arab Emirates, signed in Lisbon on 27 July 2015, and 32 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the strengthened Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, signed in Astana on 21 December 2015. Finally, there will be regular votes at the end of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 17 minutes.]]
