ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start our work, whose agenda consists of six points, the last of which is the vote. We begin with the presentation and discussion of Bill No 143 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 28 / 2000 of 29 November defining and regulating the honours of the National Pantheon ( PS ). Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bring us today to this House the debate of a bill of amendment to the law that defines and regulates the honours of National Pantheon. Its creation is one of the first measures of the September Revolution in 1836, at the initiative of Passos Manuel, and that for several years waited for the definition...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u3	Mr President, I apologize for interrupting, but I would like to ask the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to talk that you feel, to hear the speech, or, then, to leave the room. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u4	Mr. President, I said that the September Revolution, at the initiative of Passos Manuel, first of all, created and instituted the National Pantheon, which waited many years until it found its definitive address in the Church of St. Grace, moreover, marking precisely the history of the Church itself, whose works were only completed in the 60s. However, it happens that various honours of National Pantheon have been decreed, effectively functioning, in this period of intercalar, the Monastery of Jeromes as the place to lend these honours. With the completion of the works of Santa Engracia and the passage from the National Pantheon to its definitive location, the Monastery of Jeromes lost this characteristic of transitory but remained completely relevant as a place of honor, in particular to the figures that remained buried there. It is the case of Luís Vaz de Camões, of Vasco da Gama, of Alexandre Herculano, who was even President of the City Hall of Bethlehem, which was autonomous in the period. The Monastery of Jeromes was also, in 1985, the place chosen to honor Fernando Pessoa. instead of a « pantheonization » in Santa Engracia, it is in fact in the Monastery of Jerónimos that still today are deposited the ashes of Fernando Pessoa. In view of this, and in a context where the 800 years of the Portuguese Language are celebrated, it appeared to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that would be relevant, similar to what was done in relation to the Church of Santa Cruz in Coimbra, to be equivalent to the monastery of Jeromes to the status of Pantheão, precisely for this way, to recognize as being worthy of honor of Pantheão the individualities that are buried there today, also recognizing the value, the symbolic and historical impact that this place of Portuguese history thus leads to a punctual, surgical addition to the law that defines the honours of Pantheão Nacional, adding the monastery of Jerome to the places that have status equivalent to that of Pantheão. It is not intended to make a new definition of places for future honours of Pantheon — they are, and well, in St. Grace and there they must continue — but rather to make a historical recognition, fair, not only to those who are already buried in the monastery of Jerome but also collectively valuing our historical memory through initiatives like these. Of course, there is complete openness to a discussion on the subject in the specialty, but it is clear and surgical enough to be able to possibly deserve, as it has been historic at the level of legislation on the National Pantheon, a quite broad consensus, if not even unanimity, of the various parliamentary benches. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u5	Mr Pedro Pimpão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed today in the Assembly of the Republic a bill to recognize the status of National Pantheon to the Monastery of Jeromes. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I welcome Mr Pedro Delgado Alves for the opportunity of the project he has just presented, saying that for purposes of memory this legislative initiative recovers a very old practice dating back to 1836, at which time by decree the role of National Pantheon was assigned to the Monastery of Jerome. Subsequently, on 29 April 1916, the Republican Government published in the Government's Diary Law No. 520, assigning the National Pantheon to the Church of St. Grace, where it has effectively remained since 1966. More recently, this House approved Law No. 28 / 2000 of 29 November, which came to define and regulate the honours of National Pantheon. As regards this initiative that is presented today, it seems to us that this orientation which aims to extend the status of National Pantheon to the Monastery of Jeromes, which, besides being an ex-libris of national affirmation, as a grand empire in the discovery of the oceans, when the sea finally united and never separated, quoting Fernando Pessoa, in the Message, is also an impressive work that overcomes by its architecture and, above all, by its artistic beauty, being that within it—and that is what matters to the case—is perpetuating the odd individualities that have fought by the supremacy of our Nation, as we all recognize in Vasco da Gama, Luís Vaz de Camões or Alexandre Herculano. This amendment to the law follows a legislative initiative in which, in 2003, the PSD gave rise to the first amendment to the law, recognizing the status of National Pantheon to the Church of Santa Cruz, in Coimbra. At the time of this legislative amendment in 2003, this same classification was discussed at the Battle Monastery, since this national monument, in addition to being a regal foundation, is also the Royal Pantheon of the Avis Dynasty, in the Chapel of the Founder, also welcomes the Pantheon of D. Duarte, in the Imperfeita Chapels, as well as—of the greatest national relevance—this monastery, by its nationalist and celebratory reference, was chosen for the faithful guardian of the Unknown Soldier in the Room of Chapter. Moreover, the Royal Pantheon of the Battle Monastery, in addition to the tomb of King John I and Queen Philip of Lencastre, from among the members of the Avis Dynasty, receives the tombs of the Infant D. Henrique, browser and Master of the Order of Christ, with a jacent statue ; of Child D. João, Master of the Order of Santiago, and his wife, D. Isabel ; of D. Fernando, Master of the Order of Avis, who died with the fame of saint. Currently, the national monument is World Heritage by UNESCO and, for the collective memory of the Portuguese, the Battle Monastery, such as the Jerónimos monastery, have always remained as Portuguese pantheons and symbols of the autonomy and evolution of the State-Nação Portugal. On this monument, said poet Afonso Lopes Vieira that is the monument where "more homeland is". Reasons enough for us to make the proposal, at the heart of discussion in the specialty of this diploma, so that also the Battle Monastery may legitimately recognize the status and honours of National Pantheon. We believe, therefore, that the conditions for treating this matter in a consensual way are met, thus dignifying and preserving the collective memory of the greatest components of our history. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u7	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Left Block is associated with the draft law of the Socialist Party amending the law which defines and regulates the honours of the National Pantheon. in the National Pantheon it is consecrated the memory of who, by exceptional acts, marks the imagination of the country and whose legacy, in most cases, is considered perennial, allowing, as such, to think past and present and to both giving a prospective sense. Those who by valuable works go beyond death freeing themselves, as the poet said. But not only in the National Pantheon do some of our biggest rest. Although recognized there through evocative cenotaphs, the graves of, for example, Camões and Vasco da Gama are in the Monastery of Jeromes, there also resting the remains of Herculano and there having been deposited the ashes of Fernando Pessoa. And the founding king of Portugal, by means of a sign that someone has his hand kiss without return, is in the Church of Santa Cruz, in Coimbra, which also justifies that due homage may be given there. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, being the Portuguese language our greatest heritage value and approaching the date of May 5, International Day of the Portuguese Language, the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, according to the above, will vote favourably for the proposed amendment in the bill of the Socialist Party, which extends the recognition of the status of National Pantheon to the Monastery of Jeromes, of course without prejudice to religious celebrations and other regular activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u10	The Left Block Parliamentary Group understands this to be a way of valuing the memory and imagination of a people, especially through the evocation of Camões, Herculano and Pessoa, who so well knew how to think and imagine Portugal in what it was, and is, great but also in what it was not, and is not, because there is also the meaning of history that we are. I would also like to say to Mr Pedro Pispon that we are naturally prepared to discuss the issue relating to the Battle Monastery. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u11	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The way we take care of our history and our culture, the care we dedicate to its builders and, above all, the appreciation we give to it in our reference plan combine with what our homeland, the Portuguese homeland. It is in this sense, with this appreciation, that since 1836 Portugal consecrated the existence of a National Pantheon, in the path of the pantheons of Greek antiquity and Roman antiquity, first consecrated to the gods and only after the men, but above all, on the path of the French Pantheon, the first of the modern era. It is a monument dedicated to evocation, using the words of Eça de Queiros, «of the great men by the recognized homeland», and that is exactly what a pantheon constitutes today. In fact, it does not stop being curious, in one of those rounds where history is fertile, that we are dedicating as Pantheon the one who was chosen as his first place: the Monastery of Jeromes. Only in 1916, already in the Republic — by way of the first — was the Church of St.Gracy dedicated, the seat of Pantheão, honour which was attributed only very rarely, in addition to the Church of St.Gracy, to the Church of Santa Cruz, where the mortal remains of D. Afonso Henriques, constructor of our nationality. What we are doing today, with this process, is repairing what, from the popular point of view of support and enthusiasm, has never been discredited as Pantheon. Today, the law will repair, in a legal gesture, what popular devotion and support have never desecrated: the Monastery of Jeromes as a place of honor to many of the great figures of our culture and history. In addition to regal figures, we can dedicate to the Jerónimos Vasco da Gama and Luís de Camões, to whom, moreover, Mr. President of the Republic, in a first gesture full of symbolism paid tribute on his first day of office, but also Alexandre Herculano and Fernando Pessoa. We are not in favour of a banalization of the pantons, precisely because we know that these places must be, by the honor they represent, very well chosen and determined. But what we are doing with this process is not a trivialization, quite the contrary, it is a fair and worthy homage to our culture, our history, our homeland, and also, in a very symbolic way, to our language. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u13	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft law which the Socialist Party presents, on the National Pantheon, is, of course, worthy of our consideration because it comes, in essence, to enshrine in the law what is enshrined, in fact, in life and by the people, i.e., the Monastery of Jeromes, by the illustrious characters who are buried there, is an integral part of what we consider the National Pantheon, in substantial terms, that is, a place of honour to personalities who have marked our collective life in the past. It is important that memory be preserved. It is not possible to understand the present without knowing and understanding the past and, in this sense, to honor the churches that have preceded us and that have been noted, having remained in the collective memory, is something of merit that must be preserved and maintained. Obviously, in addition to the National Pantheon of Santa Engracia, so officially consecrated, and the Church of Santa Cruz, in Coimbra, it makes sense to think about the other places where illustrious figures of our History are buried that should also be officially considered as part of the National Pantheon. Thus, we believe that the reference to Jeromes is a proposal that makes all the sense and, of course, we do not exclude the possibility of considering other situations, including to which the PSD here proposed the Battle Monastery. However, we would like to take advantage of this moment, expressing our agreement with the initiatives under discussion, to consider two reflections that must be made about the National Pantheon. One of them—Mr. Pedro Mota Soares drew attention to this—is not the banalization of the National Pantheon, not giving in to emotions. In other words, what the legislation has been working on for a long time, there must be a period of time between the death of the personality concerned and the decision of its placement in the National Pantheon, is a sensible thing. We cannot fall into the risk that, under emotional or media pressure, we will be wanting to perpetuate someone's memory, however precious it may be, in the National Pantheon at the moment immediately following his death. We must not fall into this temptation. And we should not fall into the temptation to make a sort of contest of ideas and think: «let there see where there are illustrious characters who have died, and also deserve that place to be considered National Pantheon », because any day we were thinking of D. Dinis, who is in Odivelas, Pedro Álvares Cabral, who is in Santarém, and we would run to the risk of Members wanting to find a place of their electoral circle that could be considered as pantheon on his own initiative. We must not fall into this temptation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u16	I conclude immediately, Mr President. I'm not saying we're falling into this temptation, I think we should avoid falling into it. The last thought I would like to leave, Mr President, is this: the National Pantheon will also have to adapt to its own life. The homages of Pantheon were made with the deposition of the mortal remains. Well, this concept of mortal remains is evolutionary and there are distinguished personalities whose remains are their ashes, which are thrown into the sea or which are placed in certain places. This should not impede the fact that from a few years ago, it can be considered that these characters must appear in the National Pantheon and therefore there must be a form of immortalizing in that headquarters, even though there are no more mortal remains. This is a reflection to which the future should lead us but what we should start to do now. [[PCP and PS MP Wanda Guimarães applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u17	For a second intervention, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am very grateful for the comments made and, indeed, it is good that the consensus on which the regime should be and how to honour Pantheon should be maintained. I have already given a first note on Mr Pedro Pimpão's suggestion and also following Mr António Filipe's speech. In fact, the approach we must face must have some parsimony with regard to the enlargement of this statute, i.e. the places where it is really justified, by the size, by the symbolic burden and by the scale of the tribute given, by its enlargement. It seems to me that today it is consensual that it is so in relation to Jeromes, but it seems to me equally consensual in relation to the Battle Monastery, because it is also the place of deposition of the Unknown Soldier and by this way this homage is associated not only to an individuality but to all those who, at any time, were called to service in defense of their country and their community. That is why this tribute is given not only to an elite of personalities but, indeed, to all those who have served in the Armed Forces, thus justifying fully weighing the Battle Monastery. However, we agree that if we started looking for all places in the country that may be emblematically relevant, we would decharacterise what should be a function of National Pantheon. On the other hand, I would like to point out that we also see with very good eyes that the reflection here proposed by Mr António Filipe on the need for weighting, if we wish, of the introduction of criteria that allow time to be given and that the reflection on collective memory has, in fact, a component of memory and not a component of immediacy, a more emotional component than what is intended for the National Pantheon. That is what happens, in fact, in the overwhelming majority of European countries, which have far longer periods than those we have in our law, and, since we are going to have a discussion on this matter in the field of specialty, I see no reason why this exercise cannot be done precisely. I conclude by saying that, indeed, this Assembly of the Republic, already in a role other than a legislator, but if we want to be responsible for the honors of Pantheon, should look at a solution already contained in the law and that it is the possibility of homage in the National Pantheon by placing an evocative tombstone of the memory of the personality to be honored and that, indeed, until today, in addition to the symbolic cenotaphs that are already there, has never been used, this is a time which must gather parliamentary consensus enough to pass on the symbolic practices of the memory managed by the organs of sovereignty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u19	Before we move on to the second item on the agenda, I would like to inform the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are in the gallery Mr. Prof. Eduardo Lourenço, who came for the first time to visit the Assembly of the Republic and gave us the honour to have lunch with various elements of the Bureau and former parliamentarians, and, in the galleries, some former Constituent Members of 1976, among which I am seeing Mr. Kalidas Barreto. I'm asking the House for a greeting. [[General applause, standing]] We will enter the second item on today's agenda, which is the debate on draft resolutions 117 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend Community measures to defend the planting of the medroneiro and production of the medronho pendant in the interior center of the country, northern Alentejan and in the Algarve ( PSD ), 193 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends recovery of production and processing of medron ( PCP ) and 198 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the culture of the master and production of the midwife ( BE). Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the problem of production and marketing of the midwifery and its derivatives evidence many of the asymmetries that our country is suffering and that cannot and should not be spread out, this draft resolution has a clear national relevance for us. First, because the master has potential to be produced in vast areas of our territory and then because the traditional way of its exploitation has significant impacts on the landscape and the forest, especially as regards protection against forest fires. If it is true that the culture of the master managed to survive in various areas of our territory, we must recognize that this did not happen because this was a particularly attractive or lucrative culture. It happened because of the quality of the products produced, but especially because of the lack of investment opportunities, often due to the lack of jobs or alternatives to employment at the local level, because of the resilience of people who refuse to lower their arms and stop fighting for their regions. At present, there is an increase in interest in the production of spirits and medronho liquors, especially in the Alentejo mountain range, in the northern part of the country, but a little bit in the country, the current alcohol taxation regime, by not allowing any differentiation for these products, ends up being particularly penalizing for all this sector of activity, which has production costs significantly higher than those of similar products. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal for tax relief of the production of the medium and medium-sized liqueurs, what is at stake for us is first a question of territorial cohesion and then fairness, because it cannot fail to be considered as the most elementary justice to treat different things, and the overallity of the country to benefit from the reduction of asymmetries and the creation of conditions for the establishment of populations in the most impoverished and deprived areas. We well know that the adoption of this measure will not be the end of the journey, but it will start, because we will still have to raise awareness of the need for the allocation of an exceptional tax system for the medium and medium-sized liqueurs, as has already happened with other productions in areas of particular disadvantaged periphery of the European community, as are the regions of traditional production of the medronheiro. But in this as in any other similar situation, without starting to walk you will never be able to reach the end of the path. National cohesion and the reduction of asymmetry must be made of concrete things, this and other measures that are essential, so that all Portuguese can have equal opportunities and similar development prospects. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u21	You now have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Ramos. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents and discusses today its draft resolution recommending the enhancement of production and transformation of patron. The appreciation of forest products is fundamental to the future of the rural world and demonstrates that the proper use and use of these natural resources is important and gives help to revitalize the interior of the country and of territories with low population density. These local potentialities and sectors, if properly supported, can make a fundamental contribution to the establishment and development of a set of activities that have their well-defined local base and for this reason do not move, contribute to the fixing of people and invest a considerable part of their profits in the regions where they are produced. These productions, in particular the production of medronho, are associated with greenhouse areas in our country where the development of rural activity is based on the exploitation of natural resources in a multiactivity logic that crosses forest, livestock, honey, medronho and its future and another set of wild products, including mushrooms. However, this complementarity of production is essential to enable human life but also economic activity in those territories, associated with affected land and lower productivity. The CFP Parliamentary Group accompanies these concerns associated with the rural world with these characteristics. We know the problem of the medronho, particularly in the Algarve and in the municipalities of the southern Beja district, also associated with the production of the Algarve mountain, and therefore we presented this draft resolution taking into account the concerns of these producers, one of which has to do with the taxation associated with this activity, with a very exaggerated tax burden. The producers point out that about 50 % of the product of the sale of the medroma brand is to pay taxes and use up to the charged example of a stamp that has to be placed in the bottle of medroma brand which is more expensive than that which is for imported products, such as whiskey. Another associated problem has to do with certification and designation of origin, important instruments for valuing such production and with these characteristics, because it is a production that has low productivity and very high production costs. We recognize that there is here a number of matters which are within the framework of the European Union's intervention, but we must claim with the European Union the right to support these productions. in this sense, the PCP proposals arise to review the rate and tax regime paid by the patron saint, taking into account the characteristics of this production; the creation of licensing criteria that allow the licensing of small alembics that are associated with a small and very small scale production, stimulating a process of certification of designation of origin that enables the valuing of the hope, even taking into account the characteristics of the production areas and the desires of the producers, and finally defining a strategy for the culture, production and transformation of the medronho with involvement of the autarchies, representative associations of producers and local development associations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u23	You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented here is aimed at some objectives, such as: supporting and valuing, in the sectors of our agriculture, small local producers, in some greenhouse areas, of family characteristics, truly forgotten and so hard hit by the policies of the former PSD Government / CDS, such areas covering, in particular, the Algarve greenhouse, but also located in other parts of the country, where, among other species, the landowner flourishes and from which comes the hope and liquors of fear; and preventing the continuation of the depopulation of the interior and isolation of these areas, which have undergone a continuous process of desertification, over the last decades, with serious consequences for the lack of jobs, the marked precariousness of those still existing, the ageing of their populations and even the aggravation of poverty. Therefore, it is important to promote family-type agriculture and commercial activity related to land products, typical products in certain regions. The watchdog is one of these products from the referenced regions — an ex libri of the distilled algarves, but also present in the areas of the inner center, Alentejo and other areas. It is in the Algarve that there is the highest concentration of master, occupying about 13 % of the soil, corresponding to about 12 000 ha (15,500 ha, nationally). According to the National Forest Strategy, the production of landowners is around 3 million kilograms, when, in the 1970s, the annual production was around 13 million kilograms. This great decrease was due to the abandonment of agricultural activities and rural exodus in the greenhouse areas. What did the PSD/CDS government do to change this whole situation? Nothing! On the contrary, it has worsened it, with its national disaster measures at the service of the troika and whose reflections were very visible in agriculture, leading to the disappearance of 40,800 agricultural holdings and the number of natural producers decreased by 15 %. As a poor relative, family farming was the one who suffered the most. The pendant with origin in the medron began to be produced, in an artisanal manner and for medicinal purposes, by the Arabs, in the 10th century, in the area of Monchique. The exploitation of the master is thus very rooted in the cultural habits of the populations of the serrana areas of the Algarve. Small distilleries and alembics are mostly located in this region. It is of enormous social, economic and even heritage importance to strengthen the exploitation of the master for the production of spirits and derived products. Much of its consumption is intended for the tourism sector. It is very significant the expenditure representing the catch and transport of the master to the wine cellar — almost 60 % of the value of the production. And the taxation applied to the lookout is very detrimental to its growth. We have similar drinks, including some runs and liquors from the Azores and Madeira, which have a lower rate and which works as an incentive to their development. The same is true of similar products in other countries. The application of a reduced rate will position the master's head as a niche product, premium product, of high added value. thus, the Left Block presents this draft resolution, where it recommends to the Government to support, with financial and technical mechanisms, the development of the planting and exploitation of the master; to use tax mechanisms to support and develop the production of spirits and liquors derived from the master; and finally to claim, with the European Union, authorization to apply a reduced rate of special tax on the consumption of spirits and liquors produced from the meronho. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u25	You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro do Carmo.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The three draft resolutions presented identify a culture that has become important in various regions of the country. It will not be the solution for all the problems of agriculture in the interior, but these productions end up making a strong contribution to fixing people and creating wealth. These regions are associated with low population densities and, from a social and economic point of view, have known problems, which have been well identified, for example, in the PSD resolution project, this project which, however, is certainly forgotten to mention one of the regions where this culture is of great importance, the Lower Alentejo, in particular the municipalities of Almodóvar, Odemira and Ourique. Only in these three municipalities are there more than three hundred distilleries, some legalized, others in the process of legalization. The master is, in these councils, an ex libris of his traditional products. It is, I would say more, a guarantor of the rural world, due to the characteristic of natural regeneration of the species with spontaneous management, much of the time done not by landowners but, rather, by families who devote themselves to the harvest of the fruit, thus constituting a complementary yield that helps to fix the population in the interior and, in particular, in the most desertified parish. PS believes and values the rural world. Proof of this was the recent creation of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior. It should therefore be defined as a strategy that encourages the growth and promotion of this culture, which should always be done in partnership with local authorities and development associations. It is therefore essential to review the tax and tax regime to be paid for by the midwifery. It is also essential that the licensing criteria for alembics take into account the characteristics of this small-scale production. European legislation provides an exception for these cases. We must therefore take advantage of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u27	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS welcomes the parties proposing these draft resolutions, insofar as they reveal the interest in the dynamization of rural territories in all their valences. We recognize that the hope is still the main use of this fruit and recognize its importance, both in economic, social and cultural terms. And if alcohol consumption is part of the eating habits of a large majority of the population, and is often associated with various forms of healthy social relationship, it is also certain that Portugal arises systematically among the largest consumers of alcohol at European and world level; that excessive alcohol consumption occurs in about 10 % of women and 20 % of men; and that recent studies indicate that nearly 10 % of the Portuguese population has problems of dependence, which is an effective risk of public health. This note was made, we recorded the researched demagogic exercise of the left block resolution project, which relates the control line with precariousness and proximity public services, which we repudiate. Mrs. Members, in the most interior regions of the country, with natural conditioners, the complementarity of activities is the guarantee of satisfactory income to the populations, essential for their fixation and for the occupation of the territory, and contrary to desertification. in this sense, we follow almost entirely the recitals in the draft resolution of the CFP — strangely to say, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! It's true! As I have said several times here, the CFP does not have the monopoly of defending the interests of small agriculture and the rural world. [[CDS-PP applause.]] What we have, our two parties, are quite different views on how to promote and support these interests and therefore we do not follow part of the recommendations of your draft resolution. Indeed, in our understanding, it is not for the State to stimulate certification processes or to define strategies to stimulate production and transformation. The State has, in the view of this bench, the duty to support the strategies defined by the sector, including, of course, support for certification processes. And the sector has a clear strategy, which is very clear and that goes far beyond the production of expectation to which these draft resolutions seem to reduce it: a strategy to enhance the fruit in the territory, value the culture and create added value, exploring the alternative uses that the fruit has and its beneficial effects for health. The medron is a fruit rich in antioxidants, vitamins and essential fatty acids, which can be consumed in fresh, used in jellys and compounds and also for the production of honey. There is already demand for export, so we need to gain a scale, and the sector has already identified potential export markets. Research and private initiative have an essential role in the opportunities to create wealth and generate jobs for these low-density territories—and this is always talking about private initiative is not a CDS theimosia. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the sector itself, with the support of the municipalities, that affirms it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u29	We believe, therefore, that the chain of value of the medronho has much to offer to the country, and that examples such as those of the recent protocol of the municipalities of Pinhal Interior with the Portuguese Cooperative of the Medronho, or that of the recently created Medronho SW brand by the municipality of Odemira, are the first steps to a promising future for this culture. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u30	For a final speech on this agenda item, Mr José Carlos Barros has the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the Algarve, which has a central role in the economy, tourism increasingly assumes and must assume a transversal character, in which the landscape, heritage and the set of activities of the rural world constitute elements of a development strategy, which, together with the creation of wealth, cannot fail to aim at correcting imbalances and asymmetries. That is also why our initiative, in order to seek a fairer treatment for producers of midwifery, in addition to the practical effects expected from the economic point of view, has a symbolic character, which we want to assume, in support of the poorest populations, and which, in particular in the case of the Algarve, will continue to motivate us in the design of social equity and territorial cohesion. I conclude by saying that we are pleased to note that this initiative, originally presented by the PSD, has finally motivated other political forces to follow up on the matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u32	Mrs. Members, the joint discussion of draft resolutions 117 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PSD ), 193 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 199 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( BE ), we will generally turn to the joint assessment of the projects of lein. 55 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Combat forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation ( BE) and 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combats modern forms of forced labour by the tenth amendment of the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 to the fifth amendment of the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work, approved by Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 and the third amendment of the legal regime for the exercise and licensing of private employment agencies and temporary employment undertakings, approved by Decree-Law No 260 / 2009 of 25 September ( PS ). To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is known that the word 'work' comes from tripalium, which was the name given in Latin to an instrument of torture to punish slaves. If there is a measure of civilization it is precisely the abolition of slavery and the understanding of work not as a punishment, but as a platform for access to recognition and social rights. Portugal gave the example, when in 1878 it abolished slavery. That is why it is not without shock that, when we arrived in 2016, we found that, according to the International Labour Organization, there are between 20 to 35 million men, women and children in forced labour situations worldwide. In Portugal, according to the Walk Free Foundation, at least 1400 people in slavery are estimated to be indignant and unacceptable! Some examples: what happens every year in seasonal agricultural campaigns that use intensive labour. We're talking about the catch of olive oil and melon, vintages and other crops. Only during the Azeiton campaign are more than 10,000 immigrant workers from Romania, Bulgaria, Bangladesh, India, Nepal or other countries. Many of them have no registration or contract and, when they have contracts, they often do not receive the due payment, they do not have the social benefits in the day due to non-compliance of employers and, in extreme cases, employers retain their identification documents, placing these persons in total dependence, in a situation of total fragility, without means of subsistence, with abusive debts of accommodation and transport, in a country whose language they do not dominate. We don't doubt it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the need to combat these abuses, these offences, this brutal form of exploitation, these violations of human rights be consensual among all of us who sit in this Parliament. We recognize until the Working Conditions Authority, the Judicial Police and the GNR have carried out field operations to combat this phenomenon. For example, at the end of last year, 24 workers were rescued by the authorities, in an inheritance of the Alentejo. These workers were on the olive harvest, had their identification documents retained by the employers, were sleeping in an overcrowded house, without any living conditions, worked 12 hours a day and received below a miserable value. The problem is the existence of a complex chain of labour subcontracting, which causes the work and social responsibilities to be diluted. Often, what happens? The workers, the employers, flee, the authorities cannot punish them, the owners of the farms "wash their hands" as if they did not know, as if they were nothing with them and as if they did not have the perfect awareness that the profit of their properties is done at the cost of slave labor. The problem is that the law does not allow the whole chain to be held accountable and penalized. The aim of this Left Block bill is therefore simple, fair and urgent: not to allow anyone, in particular the owners of the farms or works, to "wash their hands" in relation to what is happening in their properties; to regulate the solidarity and subsidiary responsibility of all those involved in the economic activity of this chain; and to combat, in this way, abuse, forced labour, exploitation. That is to say, to defend human dignity and human rights. Oxalá may this bill of the Left Block deserve the support and favourable vote of all those who from different opinions represent the people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u34	To present the Socialist Party's bill, Mrs.Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The degree of development of a country is measured by the way it treats people, especially the most unprotected. The PSD/CDS government has treated the weakest and the weakest and the most permissively. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u36	on the other hand, it was with a socialist government that implemented the I National Plan against Human Trafficking ( 2007 - 2010 ) and it was in that same context that Portugal ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Human Trafficking. They have been very important steps, but the fact remains that it is still difficult to prove that certain situations constitute crimes of trafficking in human beings or forced labour. It is therefore undeniable that there is insufficient legislative effectiveness and that this initiative emerges from this framework. however, I leave two previous notes. It may seem a contradiction or even a paradox to combine in the 21st century the expression "modern forms" with the realization of forced labor — a process as ingenious as shameful as slavery. When in 2008 the ILO (International Labour Organization) launched a campaign in Lisbon to disseminate the concept of decent work, many people shrugged their shoulders and thought it was a thing of underdeveloped or developing countries. Fatal Error! And it was from there that decent work became a design of socialist governments. It is frightening for us to think that the humanity that has had a colossal and positive evolution in so many important domains has remained at the same level of savagery for centuries. Indeed, forced labour situations have worsened worldwide, but also at national level. The last four years of true social terrorism to which the previous government has subjected us has made a situation very vulnerable already. Seasonal work, domestic work, subcontractations are typical examples of abuses that proliferate impunity. On the other hand, migration flows and the terrible situation of refugees lead to an increase in abuses against particularly vulnerable people or groups, particularly women and children, see the case of child labour, already mentioned here. They will ask me, then, what the previous government has done. Don't think you didn't do anything. Of course, it did: with precariousness, insecurity and deprotection, it introduced fear at all levels; it led, in this Chamber, an initiative that sought to combat forced labour ; it did not ratify the protocol to ILO Convention No 29, ratified by the Portuguese State first in 1930 and then in 1956, not so little ratified Recommendation No 203, which deals with complementary measures for the effective suppression of forced labour, both documents discussed and approved by a large majority, notes, tripartite, in 103. the Session of the International Labour Conference, held in 2014. In short: it is before the urgency of the Portuguese framework of great vulnerability and imbalance that this bill emerges. Let us see, then, what he brings again: the accountability of the various temporary working agents, as well as of the whole hierarchical chain, who become debtors of the credits to the worker and of their social duties, moving them to be jointly responsible for violating the provisions on the safety and health of workers, thus ensuring an extended scope of solidarity responsibility; the recognition of a more demanding and rigorous counter-ordering regime; and a more reinforced and effective inspection.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u37	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u38	I will finish, Mr. President. This bill, which amends three important fronts — introduces amendments to the Labour Code, to legal regimes both promoting safety and health at work and to the exercise and licensing of private employment agencies and temporary work enterprises, will contribute to greater protection of victims and access to adequate legal resources. Yesterday, I heard for the first time a very happy expression: « PS is the party to radical democracy». It's true! We do not make concessions to stupidity, greed, violence and abuse! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u39	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in our society, from right to left, no one accepts forced work or slave labor. A civilized society is naturally united in the control and repression of abusive and censorship-deserving activities. In fact, we have a clear notion that the stricter labour legislation, the more market for temporary workers, and therefore we are in favour of greater flexibility in labour relations.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u41	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u42	Unfortunately, these PS and BE bills launch anathema on all companies, especially agricultural companies. All companies that resort to temporary work are now suspected to you. You want to ban temporary work? Do you want to criminalize him? For us, temporary work and seasonal work are justified in exceptional situations, for example in agricultural campaigns and crops where seasonal work is needed. It cannot be the rule, but it must exist, under the penalty of condemning these companies to disappear. Your bills disresponsible temporary work companies. And now they're changing the Labour Code without going to social consultation? Oh, my God! My ladies and gentlemen, democracy does not wear out in Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u43	The question is: have these bills been discussed and negotiated in social consultation? Don't! Once again, the PS disrespects social consultation. As for the Block, it is not unusual ; as for PS, I cannot fail to record this disrespect any longer, which unfortunately begins to be customary. Moreover, it is also worth asking: where is the stability announced by the government in the National Reform Programme in the rules governing the economy? It is that the demagogic and preconceived way in which the left, especially the PS and the Block, deals with this issue makes it impossible to negotiate in consultation and we will be united on this issue. We are told that there are cases of exploitation. — but they are supervised, punished, detected and the law, by the eyes, has an answer to these abusive situations. We are in favour of protecting workers from abusive situations. Using the generalization of guilt by all companies, by all administrators and business directors, who in most cases do not know what is happening and cannot be held responsible, is, for us, a mistake that will introduce unnecessary conflict in the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u45	My gentlemen, you have a notion of something: without economy, without economic growth, there are no companies. And if there's no company, there's no job. Employment is not created by decree and, unfortunately, your measures tend to attack employment, which is our main concern. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u46	at this moment, the Bureau does not record any entries for this point, which is still a bit strange. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mrs Rita Rato was registered for an intervention. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed these matters in the previous Legislation and, after listening to this brilliant pearl of the CDS, we would like to hear what the PSD has to say about this matter in order to see whether it maintains the position, which the CDS has seen, that there are abuses but should not be combated. In fact, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro said that between the left and the right no one accepts forced labor. That is to say that we do not accept it in words and, therefore, the honourable Member will say that he does not accept it and we will say that we do not accept it and that we fight it. But, honourable Member, between accepting and facilitating a great difference and the former Government had the ability to promote and facilitate abuse and illegality. I would remind you of the moment when we discussed the amendment to the legal regime of private employment agencies and I would remind you, in the discussion we made, in our specialty, the complaints and warnings we left to the PSD and the CDS on the facilitation of abuses and deresponsibility of the agencies on workers. We have also warned that it has ceased to be compulsory to compensate the worker when he is caught in a situation of bankruptcy or illegality and must return to his own country, and Mr President. Members removed from the law the obligation of the company to pay the return journey to the worker. The honourable Member may say he does not accept, but the fact is that the former PSD and CDS government has greatly facilitated abuse and illegality. Sir, who shouldn't be afraid! If companies are not concerned because they are complying with the law, why are you concerned that they may have to pay fines? Oh, my God! on our part, we believe that the subject of forced labour is a matter of a democratic regime. Forced work is a serious violation of human rights and the dignity of the human person and is therefore an obligation of the State, which ratified the protocol and the ILO Convention, the prevention and eradication of forced labour. Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, I would like to tell you to go to the district of Beja, especially to the municipality of Odemira, to understand the reality of those stoves. Then come and tell us that there is no problem in the country and that we are raising anathemas about companies! What is happening in this country is unacceptable. These are fundamental rights which are denied to thousands of people and this must be objectively combated. from the PCP side, we'll be here to do it. There is an issue that we will have the opportunity to discuss very soon and that is about the intervention and supervision capacity of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ). It's just the ladies. Members allowed the ACT to reach a situation where 200 inspectors were missing from work. And every time we discuss here the ability to inspect and monitor the ACT on various matters, including forced work, the Members. Members said that there was no need for inspectors and therefore there was no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u48	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u49	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that there are no concessions on our part. We are on the side of employment with rights, we are not on the side of abuse and illegality. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u50	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes spoke on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This subject which is here today under discussion on forced labour and any form of labour exploitation is, for us, a matter of great importance and I must say that this bench has always condemned, and will continue to condemn, any form of forced labour, slave labor and labour exploitation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u52	As I have had the opportunity to say in this House two years ago, this is a serious violation of human rights. A violation of human rights which, once again, I say, we reject and condemn and we will always work to severely punish those who practice it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u53	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a country like ours, democratic, cannot accept — as it does not accept — this serious violation of human rights. For this reason, the International Labour Organization Convention on these matters has been ratified and legislation has been introduced in our legal system, including labour and criminal law, to combat these practices. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u54	It is therefore essential that legislation be complied with. It is therefore essential that all supervisory mechanisms should be strengthened and that there should be a great deal of coordination between national and international authorities which have competence in these matters. In addition, I would like to recall that, in the context of forced labour and trafficking in persons, the International Labour Organisation has published a manual for labour inspectors, which is intended primarily for these inspectors, but also, and I stress, for all entities responsible for law enforcement, including police, tax authorities or emigration. And from now on, I must say that we praise all the work that these entities, as well as the Working Conditions Authority, have been developing in the context of combating forced labour. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u55	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the new times, it is important for all to be involved and that this matter is broad and serious — and I repeat, seriously — debated, analysed and weighted, so that we may not be able to look well, but to do so effectively and combat forced labor. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u56	It is in this sense and with this spirit that we are here to once again tell all the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, seriously, constructively, that we will be ready to work, to debate, to analyze and, if necessary, to legislate in order to combat what we condemn as a serious violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u57	But are you going to vote for it or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u58	That's why, sirs. Members, and even to conclude, that there is no doubt that we are a humanist party, we are a personalist party. The dignity of the human person is, for us, the basis of everything, our goal and our orientation. So we will always work to dignify the human person. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u59	We move on to the next point of our agenda today, which consists in the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 117 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 establishing the legal system of specialized medical training with a view to obtaining the degree of specialist and laying down the general principles to which the procedure ( CFP ) and 145 / XIII ( 1 ) must be followed. ( a ) — In defence of medical training of excellence, ensuring the completion of the common year and access to specialized training for all physicians ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 ( BE). To present the PCP bill, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party today brings to the discussion a legislative initiative aimed at amending Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May, which deals with the medical care regime. The project we are now discussing proposes the replacement of the continuity of the process of integration of initial training in medical schools with integrated medical training, the guarantee of a vacancy for specialized medical training for all medical graduates and teachers, the autonomous exercise of medicine after completion with the use of the second year of medical boarding, the end of the national test of evaluation and serialization, re-resisting the serial test. It also allows the replacement and guarantee of a maximum of 12 hours of work per week in the emergency or similar service, as well as the replacement of preferential vacancies in deprived areas, which would be. Ladies and gentlemen, one way to solve the serious problems of lack with which, at the moment, many areas of our country live in terms of health. The CFP presents this legislative initiative to correct the profound changes reintroduced by the regime that the PSD and the CDS-PP have made and which essentially aim to disqualify specialized medical training, which will have serious repercussions on the quality of care to be provided to the population. The rules and corresponding rules of the medical institution, imposed by the PSD and the CDS-PP — yes, Mrs. Members, they were imposed by the PSD and the CDS-PP because it was made against the will and opinions of the representatives of medical professionals and students! — recommend an incentive to the precarious use of internal physicians to meet the needs of professionals in the National Health Service. The regime now in force breaks with a central principle which allowed the recognition of the unit of medical training in Portugal, i.e. the failure of the continuity of medical integration processes between pre-graduation and post-graduation. The end of this principle opens the way for the creation of a quota of non-differentiated doctors, i.e. cheap labour with less rights and which will most possibly be hired by temporary workers to meet the needs of the emergencies and even primary health care. It also competes for the devaluation of the quality of medical training for a year, from two years of the common year. The scheme proposed by the former Government opens the door for specialized medical training to be carried out exclusively in private and social institutions. This is very harmful to the National Health Service, because it will divert professionals to the private sector, professionals who need the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today's difficulties in the National Health Service to accommodate specialized medical training clearly result from the political options of successive governments — particularly in the last four years — to close services, to concentrate valences. The solution inevitably passes through the strengthening of the National Health Service, through the investment in the same Service. The CFP does not accept, nor can it accept, that the country, which has made a huge effort of medical qualification and specialization, goes back and back to the past. It is because of the need to maintain the strengthening and quality of medical training in Portugal that we present this legislative initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u62	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block is quite clear in its objectives, that is, we want a National Health Service of better quality, with more responsiveness and more accessible to all people. For the National Health Service it is not enough to exist, it is necessary to be the National Health Service. And that is to be universal and more accessible. In order to have a better National Health Service with more responsiveness, we need to ensure: one, better medical training; two, the training and fixation of specialists, especially the fixing of specialists where they most lack and where the health needs are more severe. The project of the Block of Left, which is under discussion here, goes precisely in this direction: to realize solutions for these objectives to be achieved. First of all, by restoring the common year, which the previous Government has abolished, we are improving medical training in Portugal, we are allowing inmates to contact various specialities and get better practical experience. Secondly, by ensuring the access of all doctors to boarding school, we are ensuring that all doctors will be specialists and not undifferentiated doctors. A country where the lack of doctors specialists in the National Health Service is a reality is a country that cannot afford to refuse the training of more doctors and specialists. Third, the Left Block project recovers the preferred vacancies, which are a necessary tool for public health planning in Portugal, because they allow and encourage the placement of inmates in regions where there is a chronic lack of doctors. The placement of inmates in these places promotes the future establishment of doctors and fights, decisively, the lack that many regions have in the provision of health care. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the bill that the Left Block brings to the discussion therefore responds to the numerous needs of the SNS: it gives tools for the training of more specialists and for their placement in public establishments, in particular where they are most needed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, also recently, this Parliament approved a number of projects that sought to respond to the 114 doctors who, even last year, were deprived of access to medical care. This Parliament, when approving these projects, acknowledged that there was a problem that urged it to solve and that it was necessary to foresee that it would not happen again. The project of the Left Block is the logical sequence of this recognition, as it gives answers so that this does not happen again and points out the solutions to improve the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u64	For an intervention, Mrs Isaura Pedro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing two bills today, one of the Left Block and another of the Communist Party, through which, fundamentally, the left intends to reverse — once again, in order to undo — the legal regime of specialized medical training, approved less than a year ago, through Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May. They therefore want the CFP and the Block to end the national assessment and seriality test, thereby compromising the requirement, ensuring that all candidates for specialized training can have access to training, regardless of their level of qualifications and whether or not the training establishments have the capacity to do so. Demagogic proposals that, to be approved, would compromise the quality of specialized medical training in our country. In this way, the authors of the initiatives currently under discussion forget that the diploma they want to change was based on the recommendations of the Working Group for the Review of the Medical Internal Affairs Regime, which also ignores the understanding that, in this regard, has had the Medical Order itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft laws in the presence also lie in a misunderstanding, not to say in a fallacy: that there would be less resources available to the people today. The truth is that between 2011 and 2015 the National Health Service was strengthened with new health professionals, particularly in the medical career, and the number of vacancies in the specific training of medical boarding schools also increased significantly. In fact, it is worth remembering that in the last four years, an increase of 2800 doctors has been recorded in the National Health Service. Since 2011, more than 20 medical career contests have been opened, in a total of more than 7000 vacancies, 1500 of which only for general and family medical doctors, which allowed the number of Portuguese without a family doctor to go down to half. On the other hand, with regard to medical training, it was the Socialist Party's own government to have recognized, in an official document, last February at the time of the presentation of the State Budget for 2016, which, and I quote, « in the temporal space between 2009 and 2015, the number of filled vacancies has evolved positively, registering a growth of 903 vacancies of admission of the common year and 477 vacancies of specific training boarding. » So the left parties are once again wrong. The new regime of medical boarding, approved in 2015, aimed to improve the conditions of postgraduate medical training, its harmonisation in the face of new legal realities and the adoption of a new approach to respond more appropriately to the needs of candidates and health units of the National Health Service. by wanting to end the national assessment test and by defending vacancies for all, regardless of the capacity and quality of training, you only reveal the unconfessed purpose of installing chaos in medical training. in the vote on these projects, we will all be aware — in fact, the country will also know again — which side is the Socialist Party with regard to the system of medical training, if on the side of quality and the requirement, in the sum of the doctors, users and patients, or if on the side of facilitation, demagogy and the dismantling of all the reforms carried out in recent years for the improvement of the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u66	Mr António Sales spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the rules that approve access to specific training in medicine, the Socialist Party believes that it will begin by emphasizing the quality of medical education in Portugal as regards pre- and post-graduate training, as being a regime of excellence not only in quality, but also of equitable opportunities to be preserved. In addition, however, Mr. Members, that the system is not elastic and it is neither realistic nor feasible to guarantee training capacity for all medical graduates. Otherwise, there are currently 8500 internal doctors in training within a time limit of 6 years. at the same limit, you will retire-CL- about 4000. In general and family medicine, there are 2000 doctors in training for a deficit of about 900. In the short term the needs will certainly be met! And, therefore, the actual training needs are due to what is the capacity of the services, the number of trainers that are increasingly scarce, the number of candidates and their choices and the technical differentiation of the services. Therefore, a timely and cross-sectional planning of the system is required, which starts in access to the faculties and ends in the country's real needs. For this purpose all agents need to be involved, since the Medical Order, trade unions and associations of students and young doctors, ACSS (Central Health System Administration) and Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u69	All this planning is based on the assumption of maintaining system quality and the unnecessary excess to which a lack of planning can lead. The specialty choice phase is a very important phase in the life of the young doctor and consequently of the patients who will be the main beneficiaries. It requires, therefore, the necessary tranquility, serenity and discernment to avoid the foolish and confusing processes that occurred last year and that ended with the exclusion of 114 candidates, subsequently re-entered, even without differentiation. Mrs. Members, of all doctors working in Portugal only 65% work in the SNS ( about 30 000 ) — an imbalance. in the last five years they left public service about 3000, more than half were in health centers — another imbalance. An aging medical demography, enhanced by regional asymmetries and a lack of planning in the choices of the most deprived specialties increases the worsening of the conditions of equal access of Portuguese to health care—new imbalance. The problem, sirs. Members, this is therefore a problem of imbalances; a problem of organization and distribution of resources up to the number of clinicians themselves. That is why the renewal of generations is necessary! There have never been so many graduates in medicine in Portugal, but there are fewer and fewer doctors in the National Health Service — it is necessary to convert. It is also necessary to encourage the choice of more deprived areas, such as general and family medicine and public health — a new need for conversion. There is also a need for a more balanced geographical distribution of specialists, and it is necessary to create incentives for the establishment and stabilization of young doctors in more deprived areas, making professional careers an important factor of stabilization and progression. The commitment of the Socialist Party will be to continue the work of monitoring and monitoring the process of medical training in order to ensure the increase in the establishment of young doctors in the National Health Service, within the framework of strengthening their response capacity and having underlying the principles of quality of training, patient safety and access equity. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u70	I ask you to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u71	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mrs. Members, the Socialist Party looks beyond the evidence, exercises civic pedagogy not based on facilitation or political populism, looks beyond biased understandings for convenience or beyond corporate interests. Thus, we prove that our design is the best interest of the Portuguese and the health of our citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u72	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the discussion on the topic of medical training, a topic relevant to Portuguese, health services and professionals, of which the CDS dealt with earlier legislative initiatives. The projects submitted by the PCP and the Left Block are in the spirit that what matters today is to revoke and reverse more-values obtained in the previous Legislation. in this case, it is a matter of profoundly altering the Decree-Law No. 86/2015, which resulted from the work of a technical committee of experts and which also counted with the Order of Doctors. And the so-called Decree-Law had the support and praise of the Order of Physicians, which alone deserves our greatest respect and reassures us about the quality of it. However, it is worth commenting on some aspects of the proposals here today. It is essential for us to ensure the training quality of future doctors, and this is done, among other things, by respecting the training capacity of the services and the suitability they have received from the competent establishments. We understand that disrespecting the training capacity and forcing the number of vacancies is, yes, damaging the quality of medical care to Portuguese, that is, disqualifying specialized medical training. Qualifying the training and fighting for excellence health care is also accepted by accepting the assessment and seriality test provided for in Decree-Law No 86 / 2015. Those who aspire to quality and, above all, when human lives are at stake do not have to be afraid of assessments. We defend merit and excellence, and here more than ever! Decree-Law No 86/2015 does not provide for the automatic extinction of the common year and the report of a committee of experts which will guide the final decision on this matter is also awaited. In addition to ignoring the current training limitations and the difficulties that we have already referred to, harming the interns, it is to prevent post-graduate training in institutions that are recognized as suitable by the Medical Order. It is no longer, in fact, pure ideological prejudice, not supported by technical or quality criteria. That is why we do not understand your obsession. Competent bodies such as ACSS and the Medical Order have made a huge effort to intensify specialized medical training. In fact, they have never admitted, nor have they ever trained, as many medical specialists in Portugal as they currently do. I would like to conclude by saying that Portugal internationally enjoys the recognition of the quality of the specialized training of its doctors and we want to fight for it to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u75	We will continue to defend the need for the correct planning of human resources in health, with due adaptation to the needs of Portuguese society. It is essential to defend and fight the quality of the specialized training of those who treat us and care for our health, within and outside the SNS. For all this, for this reason, we shall vote against the diplomas under discussion today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u76	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to start by telling Mrs Isura Pedro and Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto that the fact that they think that everything that is well proves that we really need to change the needle and not use the same cartridge as the PSD and the CDS-PP used for the National Health Service in the last four years. This is because what they did to the National Health Service didn't do him any good, on the contrary. Therefore, if you think that the path is of continuity, we say that exactly that is why the path is of change. And we're not just saying, it's the medical students who say that the current regime doesn't work, it's the doctors who say that better training is necessary, it's the users who notice that more specialists are needed. The honourable Members know that the image we perceive always depends on the angle we look at it. If you look at the angle of private interests, then as it is, it's okay. But the Left Block looks at the image of the angle of the interests of the users and the National Health Service. That is why we say: "Yes, more specialists need to be guaranteed! Yes, it is necessary to create vacancies in regions with the greatest need of doctors! Yes, the law needs to be changed! Yes, the regime needs to be changed! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u78	For a second speech, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the PSD and the CDS-PP who came here to say that the regime in force is good, I say it is good because it was in line with those policies of the PSD and the CDS-PP, which are to create instability, precariousness and, above all, to prevent the legitimate expectations of medical students from being carried out, preventing everyone from having access to specialized training. For those who say that many doctors have been trained in recent years and there is an excess of doctors in Portugal I recommend reading the interview of the current Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor, regarding the issue of vacancies and the lack of doctors in Portugal. But we also heard here saying that the National Health Service has more doctors. Nothing more false! It has more internal physicians, but does not meet the needs of other years, in which more experienced doctors emerged and which gave the National Health Service the capacity and training fitness that is currently being used to prevent the legitimate access of these doctors to their specialized training.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u80	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u81	I conclude, Mr. President. In fact, specialized training that allowed the worldwide recognition of the quality of training in Portugal and the quality of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u82	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u83	That is why we propose this initiative: by defending the National Health Service, but also the doctors and those who are currently studying medicine. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u84	Mrs. Members, let us turn to deliberation project No 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Attribution of the title of Honorary Member to Members of the Constituent Assembly of 1975 - 1976 ( President of the HR, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), in which it is the plenary session immediately prior to 2 April, the day on which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976 was adopted. This is the last item on today's agenda and it is also the last initiative in the vote script. Following the vote on this initiative, a video of tribute to the Constituent Members is planned, based on the information contained in the parliamentary biographical record of the time. Before the speeches of the parliamentary groups, allow me to read the draft deliberation of the following content: « Considering that 40 years of the approval of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976 are passed on on 2 April, a significant moment in the process of consolidating democracy and building a freer, fairer and more fraternal country, to which the plurality of political views represented by the various Members of the Constituent Assembly contributed. Whereas Article 29 (2). the Statute of Members, approved by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March in its current wording, provides that, by virtue of the deliberations of the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, the title of Member Honorary may be assigned to Members who, by means of relevant services provided for the defence of the Parliamentary institution, have contributed decisively to their dignity and prestige, in accordance with the applicable constitutional and legislative provisions, and by proposal of the President of the Assembly of the Republic and of the Members and of the undersigned Members of the Parliamentary Groups of the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist Party, the Left Party, the Social Democratic Center, the People's Party of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Greens and the Party Persons-Nature, the Assembly of the Republic shall: Single Article Attribution of the title of honourable Member Honorary to Members of the Constituent Assembly of 1975 - 1976 1 — in accordance with Article 29 ( 2 ). the Statute of Deputies, approved by Act No. 7 / 93 of 1 March, in its current wording, is awarded the title of Member Honorary to Members of the Constituent Assembly of 1975 - 1976, for relevant services provided in the defence of the parliamentary institution. 2 — The title of Mr Honorary shall be carried out in a diploma to be delivered to himself by the President of the Assembly of the Republic ». We will therefore start the debate on this proposal. Mr Fernando Negro has the floor to speak by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u85	Mr President, allow me to address you directly by congratulating you on this initiative and by having for the first time operated a regiment device that could not be better and more just than this. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 25 April 1975 elections were held for the Constituent Assembly, in which 250 Members were elected, legitimized by 91% of registered voters. At that time, a determination was made of the Programme of the Movement of Armed Forces which expressly referred to: « the convening, within 12 months, of a National Constituent Assembly, elected by direct and secret national suffrage, according to the electoral law to be drawn up by the future provisional government». These Members exercised their duties between 2 June 1975 and 2 April 1976, at a historic moment of great tension, and these work developed between two currents: one that thought that this Constituent Assembly had the sole task of preparing the document, the Constitution, and another that thought that, for example, there should be a period before the agenda for debate on current issues. Fortunately, this second current has gained and prevailed, i.e. the current of freedom, discussion, debate, in this House of the Republic. How different those times were! Just look at the pictures where we see the ladies. Members, especially men—at the time it was still so, fortunately things have changed too — from cigarette to mouth, with tired air for reasons that are justifiable, since it was hours and hours of work, days and nights. There were no regiment times and therefore the work was almost endless. But it was worth it, not only because we stayed with the fundamental text of Portuguese democracy but also because the Constituent Assembly gave Portugal, in addition to several Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic, two Presidents of the Republic, Mário Soares and Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u86	Finally, Mr President, I have chosen a name to honor all of you. Members and all Members of the Constituent Assembly and that name—and it is always difficult to choose a name, but I think that through this we can do justice to all—is that of Sophia by Melo Breyner. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u87	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a happy occasion, because it is the opportunity we have to celebrate 40 years of the validity of a constitutional text and the men and women who did so, under the close look of the Constitutions of 1820, who also drew up a Constitution but in an Assembly which, as Mr Fernando Negrão well pointed out, was not a democratically elected Assembly, by direct, direct suffrage, secret, of all citizens and citizens who wanted to participate in it. In fact, the citizens participated, ran to the polls and legitimized the Constituent Assembly as never before had an Assembly in this country been legitimized. In fact, the Constituents took on their mission and performed it, faithful to what was, and continues to be, the inspiration of the constitutional text: 25 April. Our Constitution is threefold linked to April 25. The opening words of the preamble say precisely that on 25 April 1974, interpreting the deepest meaning of the Portuguese, the Armed Forces Movement overthrew the fascist regime. On 25 April 1975 the electoral act which elected the Constituent Assembly and the Constitution itself ended with the date of 25 April 1976, the date of the entry into force of the constitutional text. It is the April Revolution that is inseparably linked to the text, to the objectives, to the aim of providing the country with a state of democratic law, of separation of powers, of fundamental rights. It was the first time, since it was talked about constitutions, that the result was truly full, complete and representative of the feelings of the Portuguese. And these constituents, who today we honour, men and women, have taken on this archothe of freedom which was still being given to them by the MFA and the people who were on the streets and have transformed it into a legal text, constitutionally, overcoming difficulties, difficult debates, moments when the country was in turmoil, when the country was reinvented and met again and, undeniably, had to deal with the discussion, with the debate, with the dissent. But precisely in this forge of dissent, at this moment of debate and confrontation, a constitutional text was born in which we still see ourselves today, a demanding constitutional text and for which, regardless of the afternoon in which the text was voted or voted in favour or against, all Members and Members, without exception, have contributed. Even if they have not voted in favour of this text, the Constitution is also theirs and must also be embraced at all times by them, because they are Portuguese, citizens and Members we must pay tribute today. That is why, at this good hour, indeed, it is to greet Mr President for this reminder and, in himself, also to welcome the spirit of Prof. Henrique de Barros, who presided over the work of this Constituent Assembly, in him recalling the whole of the Members who served the country here. I would also like to remind you, moreover, not so much to remember but to say that, for me, I was born after April, that I lived with this Constitution, as an elected Member in the last legislature was, and it is an honour and privilege to still be able to deprive and share the corridors and this Chamber with three constituent Members, namely Mr Jerome de Sousa, Mr Miranda Calha and Mrs Helena Roseta, who helped to write our constitutional text. The honor is ours in being able to share this moment. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u89	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a happy time for us to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the April Constitution. It is happy that, by doing so, we can pay tribute to the Members and the Constituent Members and recognize that they had the art of, in the grief with which they wrote the Constitution, to realize the relationship of the country's forces and to join the people's hand in a constitution that defends rights, guarantees freedom and democracy and, as never before, points to socialism in our country. We know that this Constitution is the daughter of April 25, it is the daughter of a revolution that put an end to colonialism and dictatorship, and we know well that it is also a reflection of the relationship of forces then existing in society and a country that called for rights, rights to be able to be in freedom and democracy, in the construction of public school, in the reconstruction of the social state, in guaranteeing the right to work, to wages, to habituality, in ensuring that a country is for all and for all and that this project is won in the Constitution that was then written. We know that the best way to celebrate any Constitution is to apply it, and that is why it is even happier when we celebrate the 40 years of the Constitution by returning to constitutional stability in our country, after four years when the right government has tried to do what they always dreamed of: to attack the fundamental document of our society. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We know well that the inflamed speeches that, on the right, many had against the Constitution, and even some voted against, never concealed their dissatisfaction with the existence of a constitution that they said was ideological because it limited the powers of the elect. But, then, what does a Constitution serve if it does not tell governments that they cannot do everything they want, that there is a law that commands more than them, that is a law defined by the country and that is called the Constitution? It was thanks to that law, this fundamental text, that the right did not cut wages, as I wanted to cut; it did not attack rights, as I wanted to do; it did not break contracts with whom it worked a whole life, as it wanted to tear. I am glad that we are now celebrating the Constitution with its full application. We know that the application of the Constitution has one formal aspect and another of content and we know that in formality there is division of views with the right and that in the content there is still a lot left for that April programme to be taken fully forward. from the part of the Left Block, in these celebrations of the 40 years of the Constitution, we leave a word of thanks to the Constituents of then and the commitment that we will do everything to make it faithfully fulfilled also in its contents, with all the rights that are still missing, even 40 years later. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u91	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP, of course, is associated with this draft deliberation which accords the title of Honorary Member to the Members of the Constituent Assembly, recognizing the effort they have made and the contribution they have made to the consolidation of democracy, initiated on 25 April 1974 but only stabilized on 25 November.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u94	The CDS-PP therefore understands the role of these men and women in this Constituent Assembly in providing a newly-created country with a view to a new democratic regime, and recognises them as an important role, but it cannot leave, here and today, the result of that same freedom and as Mr Pedro Delgado Alves well remembered, to stress all Members of the Constituent Assembly. They all played a significant role, from a historical point of view, but speaking on behalf of the CDS-PP, I particularly wanted to welcome the courage of the 16 men and women who voted against a constitution that sought the way to socialism. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We assume, in all, that past. We proudly assumed this past, with the obvious pride of those who were right at the time, of those who at the time voted a text that advocated a society that led to the misery of millions of people in various countries. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We welcome those who have been able to alert to the dangers of this constitution, these regimes. We greet those who knew to be on the right side of the wall. But today it is not, Mr President — just because it was mentioned earlier — that is the time for us to focus on the divisions, that is, the time for us to highlight what unites us. And what unites us is the important historical role of these men and women who have joined the Constituent Assembly and who have made the Constitution, which has been improved but in which there is still much to do, of course. We welcome this historic role and the CDS-PP will, of course, vote in favour of this deliberations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u95	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft deliberation which we shall approve shall assign the title of honourable Members to the Members who have joined the Constituent Assembly. It is a fair tribute to which we associate. It is a tribute to the Constituent Members who are no longer among us, a very fraternal greeting and very much recognized to all who are still among us, because, fortunately, they are still alive, and a greeting also to the already mentioned Members who, having been Constituents, still assume the mandate of Members to the Assembly of the Republic today. It is a just greeting to the first truly democratic representative assembly throughout our history. for the first time, there was an assembly elected by direct and universal suffrage that gathered the votes of almost 92% of citizens with electoral capacity, citizens who had never voted freely and who made elections day for the Constituent Assembly a great feast of Portuguese democracy. This House, legitimate by popular will, prepared a remarkable work, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, adopted on 2 April 1976. Of all the constitutions drawn up by constituent assemblies, it is by far far the one with the greatest longevity and it is important to point out that this Constitution, 40 years after approval, is alive, it is recommended and many Portuguese are identified with it. And there is no better tribute to the Members of the Constituent Assembly that we can do than remember this. These Members were able to express what was the will of the Portuguese people in a Constituent Assembly where they reflected the diversity of political views and positions in Portuguese society and who could reflect, in the norms that they had adopted and in the values that they had achieved, the feeling that the Portuguese people were manifest. Therefore, we can say that the Revolution of 25 April 1974 was adopted in the Constitution on 2 April 1976, truly, its identity card, in the principles, in the values of a political, economic, social and cultural democracy that the Constitution has enshrined.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u98	Finally, Mr President, I just wanted to say that the greatest tribute we can pay to the 1975/76 Constituents is, 40 years later, we will continue to honour and defend the Constitution and the values enshrined therein. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u99	Before we enter the voting period, I would just like to stress that the Constituente António Riço Calado is in the central gallery. Before we conclude this point, I would ask you to welcome it. [[General applause, stand up.]] Let us turn to point 6 of the agenda, which is contained in the vote on the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 202 presences, to which the honourable Members add. Deputies Joana Mortágua, do BE, João Oliveira, do PCP, Antonio Sales, Bacelar Vasconcelos, Hugo Pires, Isabel Santos, José Miguel Medeiros and Lara Martinho, do PS, Cristovão Norte, Fátima Ramos, José Carlos Barros, Maria Germana Rocha, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Nilza de Sena and Pedro Roque, do PSD, perfezing 217 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to vote. We shall proceed to the votes starting with vote No 52 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of 12 Portuguese in an accident on French roads ( RA President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Emilia Santos
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, vote No 52 / XIII ( 1 ) (a) — Despite the death of 12 Portuguese in an accident on the French roads, it is of the following content. « on the night of 24th to 25th March there was a tragic accident on the roads of France which killed 12 Portuguese who were going to spend Easter with their family and friends in Portugal. The accident occurred a few hours after they left Switzerland, on a road in Moulins, near Lyon and Clermont-Ferrand, in regions that also have large Portuguese communities. The violence of the accident was such that 12 of the 13 passengers died, only surviving the driver of the vehicle. This was the biggest accident that there is memory in these circumstances. The victims lived and worked mainly on the Swiss canton of Friburg and originated in the districts of Guarda, Viseu and Aveiro, which were in great dismay. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 31 March, regrets the tragic accident that took the lives of 12 Portuguese citizens residing and working in Switzerland and conveys their deepest condolences to the family and friends of the victims. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u101	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 52 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 56 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Despite the death of Commander Manuel Castro and Brito, President of the Association of South Farmers ( PS, PSD and CDS-PP ), who will be read by Secretary Idália Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote No 56 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Despite the death of Commander Manuel Castro and Brito, President of the Association of South Farmers is of the following content: « The early death of Commander Manuel Castro and Brito, President of the Association of Southern Farmers and the maternal soul of the creation and functioning of OVIBEJA is a loss not only for the region that served with commitment and vision but above all for the country that proudly defended and promoted through agriculture and the preservation of its heritage, of which the success of OVIBEJA is an example. His strong humanist personality, with great vision, scope and culture has always been at the service of our region of Lower Alentejo, with a high sense of mission, aiming selflessly to add value and merit. Today is a day of pain for all of us, who are poorer with their premature departure, but also a moment of deep recognition, more than justified by their experience, man, associative leader and citizen who has opened the doors to the entire Alentejo of this world. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u103	We shall vote on vote No 56 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now turn to vote No 57 / XIII ( 1a) — On condemnation and regret for the tragic suicide attack in Lahore, Pakistan ( presented by the President of RA, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, vote No 57 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) shall be of the following content: « last Sunday, the city of Lahore, in Pakistan, was a stage of a heinous suicide attack, which victimized more than 70 innocent citizens, many of them women and children, and wounding about 300. The barbaric attack, which took place in a park of the capital of Punjab State, was already claimed by a fundamentalist faction, and aimed at addressing the Christian community of Lahore, having taken as a target the large tens of families that celebrated Easter Sunday. This crime is added to others without meaning to which the Pakistani people have assisted, united in the protection and respect for life, united in the long journey that has been made by the values of tolerance and democracy. They are attacks that justify our repudiation and deserve the deepest condemnations, because they are practiced against dialogue, understanding and mutual understanding, against differences in values and experiences, on the basis of which people like Pakistan built their identity. Because they are perpetrated against innocent victims, against life and religious freedom, on the most important day of the Catholic community of Lahore, The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of the terrorist attack in Lahore, and at the same time its deepest regret, expressing its solidarity with the suffering and mourning of the Pakistani people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u105	We shall vote on vote No 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute's silence due to these three votes. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 53 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemning the condemnation of the 17 young Angolan activists and Angolan Luaty Beirão ( PS ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, vote No 53 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Condemning the condemnation of the 17 young Angolan activists and Angolan Luaty Beirut ( PS ) is as follows: « The Luanda Court decided to condemn on 28 March 17 political activists to imprisonments ranging from 2 years to 3 months to 8 months and 6 months. It is a heavy sentence for young people and academics who certainly still have an important contribution to the development of Angola. Among the condemned activists is the Portuguese-Angola citizen Luaty Beirut. Two of the convicted are already on hunger strike for several days and their health conditions are worsening in a worrying way. The young people were arrested in June 2015, allegedly because they were discussing ideas about democracy, based on the book of the dictatorship to Democracy by Gene Sharp. Democracy cannot exist without freedom of expression and assembly. Criticism and public discussion without embarrassment are central pillars of democracy. The CPLP's own constitutional declaration and its Statute stress the importance of respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. This is the spirit that should guide the Member States of the CPLP, always seeking to deepen these principles and values. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the defence lawyers announced that they would resort to the decision, which keeps the hope of the trial open to be reconsidered. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, regrets the situation in which it is assisted and that it is paying attention to the fundamental principles of democracy and the rule of law, making a hope for it to be corrected. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u107	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 53 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP and with votes in favour of the PS, BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to vote No 54 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemnation for the punishment of young Angolan activists ( BE ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The trial against young Angolan activists was decided on 28 March 2016, with sentences between 2 and 8 years of imprisonment for all of them. Accused of the crime of subversion—and already in the full phase of final allegations of belonging to an association of criminals— activists were actually condemned only for promoting a collective reading of the book of the dictatorship to democracy by Gene Sharp. That is, by exercising fundamental rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: « Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion». Illegally detained, abusively treated and with their restricted rights, activists carried out a hunger strike to draw attention to the injustice that they were being victims. Several international human rights organisations have spoken out in defense of these young Angolans and their inalienable right to exercise their fundamental freedoms in peace. The Angolan authorities, however, decided to bring forward punishment with imprisonment sentences than was a peaceful and orderly exercise of political discussion and freedom of thought and opinion, contrary to basic norms of international law and the Angolan legal order itself. Respect for basic human rights is therefore at stake. No logic — whether commercial, financial, political or otherwise — can justify the democrats' silence on basic human rights violations such as what happened with this punishment of Angolan activists. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 31 March 2016 : 1 — Condemns the punishment of Angolan activists; 2 — Calls for, in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Angola, the processing of the proceedings to be conducted in accordance with the founding principles of the rule of law, including the right of peaceful opposition to the constituted authorities ; 3 — Appeals for the release of the detained activists. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u109	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 54 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the members of the PS André Pinotes Batista, Carla Sousa, Carla Tavares, Edite Estrela, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, João Paulo Rebelo, Maria Augusta Santos, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Pedro do Carmo, Porfirio Silva, Rosa Maria Albernz, Sonia Fertuzinhos, Susana Amador and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and the abstention of PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u110	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u111	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u112	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will deliver a declaration of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u113	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u114	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I shall present, on the last two votes, a statement of vote and to regret that these two proposals have not gone down to the specialized committee, which is the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I am sure that Parliament would have achieved a common position on such an interesting subject if it had benefited from the spirit of dialogue and commitment prevailing in this Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u115	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Ascension Simões, is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u116	Yes, Mr President, I will also make a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u117	Mr. João Torres, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u118	Mr President, it is to announce that, on this vote, myself and the Members of Parliament. Mr Diogo León and Mr Ivan Gonçalves, together, will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u119	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Simão Ribeiro, is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u120	Mr President, it is to announce that myself and the Members of Parliament Bruno Coimbra, Joana Barata Lopes and Margarida Balseiro Lopes will also present a statement of vote on the last two diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u121	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Fatima Ramos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u122	Mr President, it is to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u123	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Duarte Filipe Marques, is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u124	Mr President, it is to announce that I will give a statement of vote on these last two votes on my behalf and on behalf of Mr José Carlos Barros, Mr Rubina Berardo and Mr Ulisses Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u125	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall resume the vote. We shall vote on draft resolution No 199 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Mozambique ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 200 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Move of the President of the Republic to Germany ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 143 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 28 / 2000 of 29 November defining and regulating the honours of the National Pantheon ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission. With no objection, we shall now proceed to the joint vote of three requests, respectively, of the PSD, the CFP and the BE, requesting the release of draft resolutions 117 / XIII ( 1 ) to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a 30-day vote. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend Community measures to defend the planting of the medroneiro and production of the medronho pendant in the interior center of the country, northern Alentejan and in the Algarve ( PSD ), 193 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends recovery of production and processing of medron ( PCP ) and 198 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the culture of the master and production of the midwife ( BE). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 55 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combat forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u126	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u127	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u128	Mr President, it is in order to request the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combats modern forms of forced labour by the tenth amendment of the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 to the fifth amendment of the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work, approved by Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 and the third amendment of the legal regime for the exercise and licensing of private employment agencies and temporary employment undertakings, approved by Decree-Law No 260 / 2009 of 25 September ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u129	All right, Mr. Deputies. We shall then vote on the oral application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u130	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u131	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u132	Mr President, I was awaiting the vote on Bill 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) to say that the CDS-PP would present a declaration of vote on the last two votes. Therefore, given that this bill goes down to the Commission, we will only present a statement of vote on the vote on Bill No 55 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u133	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on Bill No 117 / XII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 establishing the legal regime for specialized medical training with a view to obtaining the degree of specialist and laying down the general principles to which the procedure ( CFP ) is to be followed. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The vote on Bill No 145 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — In defence of medical training of excellence, ensuring the completion of the common year and access to specialized training for all physicians ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on the request submitted by the PCP, requesting a one-week postponement of the vote on draft resolution No 88 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by promoting the row of Indian figs ( PCP ) ( text amended by the author ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 65 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate extinction of the Algarve Hospital Centre and the appreciation of the Faro Hospital and the Barlavonto Algarvio Hospital Centre, with decentralized management, strengthening them with new professionals, improving and creating new valences and services (BE). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 70 / XIII ( 1 ) is now under way. ( a ) — Reversion of the merger process of algarvo hospitals to a single hospital ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u134	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u135	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u136	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of Members of Parliament, Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and Ana Passos and Deputies Luís Graza, Antonio Eusebius and Fernando Anastácio, we will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u137	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 190 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Public management and integration into the national network of 30 continuous care beds for use at the Vale de Cambra Health Centre ( BE ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u138	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u139	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u140	Mr President, it is to announce that on this last vote the CDS will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u141	Be registered. Mrs. Susana Lamas, is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u142	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Members elected by the Aveiro electoral circle will present a vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u143	Be registered. Mrs. Members, the vote on draft resolution No 90 / XIII ( 1 ) follows ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assistance on a scale in Portugal : combating precariousness, promoting safety, quality and reliability of air transport ( CFP ). The separate vote of paragraph 1 ( a ) was requested after the remaining points of paragraph 1 and finally paragraph 2. We shall therefore vote on paragraph 1 (a) of draft resolution No 90 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on the remaining paragraphs of paragraph 1 of draft resolution No 90/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We then voted on paragraph 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Attribution of the title of Honorary Member to the Constituent Assembly of 1975 - 1976 ( President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will now read an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u144	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Criminal Section of the Local Court of Lisbon, Case No. 7849 / 14.5TDLSB, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees of the decision to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Luís Montenegro ( PSD ) to present his testimony as an assistant in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-03-31.u145	The opinion is appreciated. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the projection of a video with images of the faces of the Constituent Members is now under way. [[At the moment, with background music from Carlos Paredes' "Verdes Anos" song, images of the faces of the Constituent Deputies were projected on the four screens in the Chamber of Sessions, and the House finally applauded, standing.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before closing the sitting, I just wanted to announce the agenda for Wednesday, 6 April. The meeting began at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: political statements followed by a statement by the Government under Article 78 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure, on the qualification of Portuguese. I wish the ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, in the person of your President, Pedro Passos Coelho, the greatest successes for the Congress to be held next weekend. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 44 minutes.]]
