ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening the galleries. The Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Emília Santos, has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 366 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Constitution of the Standing Committee ( Chairman of the HR ), 378 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government guarantee democratic nature in the process of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement — TTIP ( The Greens) and 379 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the democratic nature of the process of the Global Economic and Commercial Agreement — CETA ( The Greens ) ; and the proposed Law No 25 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the Statute for Tax Benefits, as approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, and amending the Code of Municipal Property Tax, as approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November ( ALRAM ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u3	Mrs. Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Transatlantic Partnership Agreement on Trade and Investment ( TTIP ) and the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ). Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have scheduled this urgent debate on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement, best known by TTIP, and on the Global Economic and Trade Agreement, the ECTA, because these treaties are too important to go alongside the Portuguese and this Assembly. And we have done so, not only by the content of the treaties themselves, and therefore by the implications that they can bring to the Portuguese and to the country, but also by the way the negotiating process is going on. And about the way, there's a lot to be pointed out, but there's little to say. And there is little to say because CETA literally passed by the Portuguese and this House. As strange as it may seem in a Europe that is so democratic and so transparent, this Agreement began to be negotiated between the European Union and Canada in 2009, but only in 2016, its version was made public by the European Commission. Seven years of clandestineness, far from the eyes of the peoples of Europe. by nightfall, seven years have been negotiated; closed in offices of the European Union or at the premises of any multinational, they have hidden papers for no one to see. Shame! That was how the CETA negotiating process was: a shame! As for TTIP, negotiated between the European Union and the United States of America, the scenario is not far off. Until recently, at least in Portugal, the text was not available. Then it came to be. And do you know where? at the Embassy of the United States of America. It's weird, isn't it? And you know who? Only for us, the Members of the Assembly of the Republic, and under a tight set of restrictions. Just a short time ago, it became possible for Members — and only for Members — to consult the text, in a reading room of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and still with a number of limitations. The mystery, secretism and the lack of transparency involved in these processes are condemned to all titles, but at the same time they lead us to an important question: why so much secrecy? Why are the treaties good for Europeans? Don't! in this case, there would be nothing to hide from the peoples and nothing to fear. So it is because they are not good for us — for Europeans, for Portuguese and for our country. But, moreover, this secrecy only confirms the suspicion that the main objective of these treaties is to respond to the demands of the great multinationals. And how is that done? It is done, as is provided for in the texts of the Agreements, by removing « regulatory barriers », both at the level of environmental requirements, both at the social and labour levels and at the level of food safety. It is done by reducing European standards of demand and regulation in areas such as agro-industry and abolishing restrictions on genetically modified organisms. It is done, creating new markets and opening up public services, such as education, water and health, to the voracious appetite of multinationals. The profits of multinationals are overestimated to defend economic, social and labour rights and national sovereignty. It is done, with more economic liberalization and less social protection. It is done, as these treaties provide, by enabling multinationals to process States, including authorities, on decisions that may compromise their profits. And to prosecute States not in the courts of each State, but in private courts, in arbitral courts, as multinationals like. With this blessing on multinationals, the sovereign bodies themselves would be strongly conditioned or even prevented from defending the national interest and the interests of the people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u6	...because, firstly, it would be necessary not to disturb the expectation of profits of multinationals and only then would one think about people and the country. Moreover, this possibility which is given to multinationals to be able to prosecute the State if it adopts measures that prevent or hinder its profit margin, in addition to representing a violation of the democratic rule of law, especially when we talk about the sovereignty of States, should force us to look back. Under a similar agreement, Iberdrola prosecuted Guatemala because of a dispute in the establishment of tariffs. Italian Enel processed the Republic of Salvador for paralyzing a geothermal project, when this State detected irregularities. Swedish multinational Vattenfall is processing Germany requiring EUR 5000 million, related to Germany's decision to abandon nuclear energy for renewable energy. The U.S. corporation Bilcon has prosecuted the State of Canada for denying it the authorization to exploit a stonework in an environmentally sensitive area. Dr. Philip Morris has prosecuted Uruguay and Australia. And you know why? Because these countries have approved anti-smoking laws and the tobacco industry claims that it does not have the expected profits in tobacco marketing. The examples are not missing, and there is no time to detail them. Still, the examples left here are sufficient to realize that free trade and investment treaties represent a strong tool for protecting the interests of multinationals, creating a legal framework for investment security and passing over the social, environmental and democratic rights of peoples. In conclusion, I just want to say that European political elites cannot continue to ignore the will of peoples, people, as they have done so far, because, as you can see, what is at stake is too important not to be discussed. For this reason, the Greens have scheduled this debate and have given two legislative initiatives today in this House to ensure that both CETA and TTIP are subject to a process of ratification, or not, by this House, because at least we want to democratize and make the process transparent. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u7	At the opening stage, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the initiative of the Green Party to convene this parliamentary debate. The project of a transatlantic partnership of trade and investment is so important that it fully justifies knowledge and public discussion and an intense parliamentary scrutiny. in my initial speech, I will explain the position of the Government, organizing it on three topics: why we defend the commitment of the European Union, and within Portugal, in the negotiation of an economic partnership with the United States and Canada ; why we argue that it is only worth concluding the negotiations with the United States by the end of the year if it results in a robust agreement ; and why we advocate the closer follow-up of the negotiation by Parliament, the social partners and the public opinion. The first reason for the crucial importance of TTIP for Europeans is geopolitical and geostrategic. A trade and economic agreement between Europe and the United States reinforces the centrality of the Atlantic, better balancing the game between the major traction forces operating in the globalised world. This centrality is not only economic but also the transatlantic link that expresses a common link to the political, democratic and cosmopolitan order. That it should take place with a demanding and critical role of the European Union is an additional guarantee of the framework in this democratic order of the economic dynamics of the market and, therefore, of respect for these dynamics for the values and norms of social and environmental character that distinguish Europeans. There is, in fact, no reason why this feature of international trade for the consolidation of geopolitical balances is reduced to the space of the North Atlantic. For this reason, Portugal, which has been one of the most committed to the agreement with Canada and is committed to the TTIP, is also one of the Member States of the European Union which is most persistently acting in favour of negotiations with Mercosur and is fighting for increased European cooperation with the economic spaces and organizations of West and South Africa. Our country has a strategic interest here. What emphasizes the Atlantic linkage of Europe improves Portugal's position in Europe ; what favours the North Atlantic link strengthens the specific way of geography and history make us live this North Atlantic link ; and what will see Europe for the Atlantic in its entirety open up new ways to the mediator role of Portugal between the Old Continent, the Americas and substantial part of Africa. These considerations do not intend to decrease the economic value of the TTIP. By articulating the two most advanced blocks, this will have a powerful impact on global economic dynamics, will create a new window of opportunity for Europe, in terms of technological and business innovation, safeguard its model of labour relations and positive reintegration into the international value chain. The nature of the treaty, which affects not only the customs tariffs but also the so-called "non-tariff barriers" and, above all, the regulatory standards governing trade and investment, is no less important. Portugal has an interest in TTIP, because it is an open economy that wants to be more competitive and based on competitiveness in knowledge and innovation. In addition, Portugal has a specific interest, because the importance of the US market is growing and can grow much more, because the development of Atlantic trade will increase the value of our logistics and transport system and because we have in the ongoing negotiation more offensive than defensive points, since the products we export most to the United States are currently most subject to tariff peaks. This does not mean, of course, that we do not try to safeguard our defensive points and that we do not compensate for appropriate policy measures for sectors which are becoming subject to enhanced competition. But because it seems so important to us from the point of view of foreign policy and economic policy to celebrate the TTIP, we believe that it is only worth giving rise to a robust and productive agreement. Robusto means with content — it would make no sense now to be reduced by a simple reduction of so many tariffs. Productive means beneficial for the sustainable and development-oriented economy, which we Europeans value. The requirements are clear. The TTIP cannot, I repeat, imply any substantial reduction in European standards in terms of public health and food safety, wage relations and environmental protection. The TTIP must safeguard the sovereignty of States and the autonomy of national policies regarding the provision and organization of public services and the policy for culture and audiovisual. The TTIP must ensure reciprocal access by the European Union and the United States to their public markets, include a good dispute resolution system, promote professional mobility and protect geographical indications of origin, as well as other elements that root our economies in our territories and cultures. This is therefore the position of the Government: yes to the TTIP, if it is robust and productive. Just because the negotiation process is in progress and open is that it is so decisive the political and public debate on the TTIP and so crucial is its parliamentary scrutiny. It is true that such a negotiation involves the competences of the European Commission, but it is also true that monitoring by the European Parliament, monitoring by national parliaments and public participation are absolutely essential. Doubts are legitimate, criticisms are timely, and demands for transparency, clarification and safeguarding of the public interest can only enrich the decision-making process. A good agreement also depends on an intense civic and political commitment and this debate is a demonstration of our commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the first round of speeches. Mr António Ventura, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u10	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement which is being negotiated between the European Union and the United States presents many opportunities for the economic and social development of Portugal. It will be a good agreement if commitments of respect and responsibility are reached for both blocs, like what has been achieved with the Global Agreement on Economic and Trade and which is expected to be ratified on both sides. It is true that there are very sensitive themes in the TTIP that are not yet harmonised, but that is why they follow the negotiations, and none of them has given up in convergence. However, from this convergence the European Union does not abdicate its social and environmental values, food security, public health, regulation, among others, and even takes it as a means of marking its values and standards in this globalisation. The PSD, since the first minute, sees in this partnership huge possibilities for Portugal and its outermost regions in creating wealth, new businesses and jobs. The PSD works for the future of Portugal, because as long as Portugal has to have a future and, no matter what problems it has, it has to have resolutions. It was with this determination that we overcome one more crisis and pointed ways of growth. We can't let Portugal go into inaction. We are talking about the world's largest bilateral economic relationship and the largest and deepest trade agreement ever negotiated. All impact studies globally refer to added advantages for the European Union and Portugal in the various scenarios, from the most pessimistic to the most optimistic. All impact studies refer to this. For the Azores, an increase in GDP by 0, 35 % and of VAB(gross value added) is expected in one of the scenarios studied, adding a substantial increase in trade in manufactured products. The Azores are islands that are halfway between Europe and North America. They are therefore truly indisputable in everything that can be discussed in relation to transatlantic relations and ensure the geopolitical benefit. in this sense, and in the sphere of new possibilities of valences and functions for the Base das Lajes, it is important not to forget all the structure that is inherent to it, such as the seaport. Moreover, it should be recalled that the Lajes Base is the centre of an exclusive economic zone, where it currently circulates around 53 % of the European Union's external trade. This Agreement is also an opportunity to remove the Azores from the worst socio-economic results of the history of autonomy, which are the responsibility of 20 years of the Socialist Party's governance,... [[PSD applause.]] ... results that should be ashamed of who rules in the Azores and who has already ruled in these 20 years. [[That's a laugh from PS Carlos César.]] Mr. Carlos César is laughing, but I am not laughing at results like those published today in the newspaper, that is, the Azores are the worst region in the country in competitiveness, cohesion and regional development. This doesn't make you laugh! This is embarrassing, Mr. Carlos César! [[PSD applause.]] In fact, the honourable Member is also one of the ones responsible for this. Portugal, in addition to having historical and cultural ties with the United States of America, has a privileged relationship, whose epicenter of this relationship is at the Base das Lajes. The Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens, parties that support the government, are against the American presence at the Lajes Base and are permanently opposed to TTIP and CETA.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u12	They are against these agreements because they are against the European Union, because they are against free competition, because they are against the open economy and because they are against international trade, which is just the driving force of the European Union's economy. That is why they do not even accept negotiations. [[BE's protests.]] Even when all scenarios on TTIP say that wages in Portugal increase, that employment rate increases and that businesses will have new markets, these parties are against due to their ideological radicalism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u13	The extreme left always prefers to create poor than to create wealth. This is the truth! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] Certainly this antagonism within the left-wing parliamentary coalition weakens Portugal and the outermost regions and weakens the negotiations of the European Union. With this coalition of left-wing coalitions, no one takes the Portuguese Government seriously. That is also why Portugal fell three places in the world ranking of competitiveness for 2016, now occupying 39. the position, and the investment decreased for the first time since the third quarter of 2013, when Portugal began to leave the recession of the troika years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u14	I would ask you to synthesize it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u15	I'm going to synthesize it, Mr. President. The Government cannot rule on a day-to-day basis without a strategy defined by being divided with its partners. The Government cannot be a contribution to avoiding external investment and to destroying the confidence gained by the previous Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members — and now, yes, I am finished, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u18	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u19	... the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement continues in negotiations. This is an agreement of vital importance for the future of the European Union and for the future of Portugal. This debate is, yes, another time to know who is on the side of this future, who is against or who is divided between being in favour or against strategic issues. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u20	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin my speech by drawing the attention of the honourable Members. Members for two fundamental aspects that we need to take into account when we talk about the TTIP, the trade agreement between Europe and the United States of America. The first concerns the controversy generated around the lack of transparency and lack of access to information and the second concerns the evaluation and projection we should make about the cost of not having a TTIP. This point is very important because it is underlying a strategy for the economic development of our country that is important to debate and to know in depth. Yesterday, in a colloquium organized by the PS in the Assembly of the Republic, we had the opportunity to hear the most diverse voices of civil society in a very constructive and enlightening debate, which we hope has been the first of many. Such initiatives demonstrate that this debate needs to be demystified. The reality is that the TTIP is far from being a secret pact, as it is one of the most scolded trade agreements ever. Since the start of the negotiations, we have seen how the Commission has sought to respond to the demands of transparency. In addition to access to information and the creation of dialogue groups and public sessions, we have seen how, in one of the most controversial issues — the dispute resolution mechanism between States and investors — the Commission has proposed, on the basis of contributions from civil society, an international court system for more independent and effective investment. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister to elucidate us on the details of this new mechanism, how it will work in practice and how it guarantees the sphere of national sovereignty before foreign investors. On the other hand, President Juncker's call for the reconfirmation of the Commission's mandate in response to the reluctances of some Member States comes in good time. Let us hope that this reconfirmation will strengthen the Commission to conclude an ambitious agreement that meets our expectations. And we would like to have here the confirmation by our Government that it will stand firm on this point and that it will do everything with its partners at the European Council to achieve this result. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed yesterday, what is negotiable remains within the limits of the substance of the mandate and therefore remains non-negotiable, and it is very important that this point be remembered — our economic-social model, our quality standards, our rules and our demand for social rights, the environment, food security, animal protection. on the contrary, what is really at stake here is the possibility of regulation of globalisation itself. That is why this Agreement, more than the obvious economic interest for our country, represents an opportunity to enhance our geopolitical position in the context of globalisation and to be at the centre of the centre. The alternative of not having a TTIP is the alternative of staying on the periphery of the decision centre and global influence, losing ground for other actors. The economic cost of not having a TTIP can, in fact, be quantified. of the various studies already developed, they all indicate that Portugal will be one of the most beneficial countries. We cannot, therefore, neglect this opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u23	However, we know that, in addition to the overall benefits planned, some sectors will be affected, so the Socialist Party presented a draft resolution that recommends to the Government a set of concerns to be taken into account during the negotiations. We therefore want to be assured by the Government that the implementation of this Agreement will not take place overnight, which will take into account the specificity of our economy, which will be taken into account periods necessary for market adjustment and which support mechanisms will be activated for that same adjustment. As I said at the beginning of the intervention, the PS has the conviction that it is important to open the dialogue on the TTIP, listen to all interested parties and demystify this Agreement. The Prime Minister has already said here that the TTIP will be ratified in Parliament, but until then we have to follow up and contribute to the best possible agreement, which meets our expectations and is an instrument of growth and sustainable development for our country. That's why the PS will continue to work. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u24	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u25	Mr President, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First of all, the Left Block would like to welcome the Greens for bringing the debate, in plenary, to such an important issue and, as has already been said, that so little public debate has taken place. I am speaking on the one hand of the free trade agreements between the European Union and the United States, the TTIP, and between the European Union and Canada, the CETA. These two agreements, in fact, have a lot in common so far: secrecy in the negotiations, the intention of deregulation of the economy, the environment, work, food security, among other aspects, and the placement, at the same legal level, of States and multinational companies. when it is not yet decided whether the signing and ratification of the agreement with Canada is the sole responsibility of the European institutions or needs the approval of national parliaments as well, it is important to put some questions to clarify what we are talking about exactly as regards the Treaty of Transatlantic Partnership with the United States of America and its concrete consequences on the lives of Portuguese. Let's start with labour legislation. With this agreement and with the knowledge that there is at the moment of the agreement by the Government, will a certain investor have to comply with Portuguese labour law — which implies wages, rights, working hours, among other things? Can you confirm that there will be no interference or distortion by investors in Portuguese labour law? With regard to standards of food regulation, can the Minister confirm and ensure that the food safety of Europeans and Portuguese people will not be challenged, in particular, with the free marketing of American products with standards which are recognised as lower than food protection? For example, can an American investor market their seeds with GMOs in Portugal? Yes or no? On public services and their openness within the framework of this agreement, in concrete terms, what does this mean? Privatization? Concessions? What are the consequences for such sectors as health or water? Are we talking about the impossibility of reversal of privatisations, for example? Are we talking about the impossibility of new regulations in sectors such as public water, public health, public transport, if there is the interest of an American investor in this case? It is necessary, in fact, to begin to have concrete answers to the specific aspects of life of each of us who will be affected by this agreement. We believe that there cannot be blind confidence in a negotiating mandate of the European Commission and in the goodwill of the United States to strike a balance on regulatory issues, specifically. It is not even necessary to equalize an agreement or a pre-agreement just because it is, by the end of this year. There has to be some clarification! There must be information, public debate and, above all, democracy in this process that has not existed so far! Therefore, as none of this has been guaranteed so far and the course of the negotiations continues to guarantee security for European citizens, particularly Portuguese citizens, the doubts remain on the side of the Left Block, so for now we have left these issues here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u26	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before you ask the Government a few questions, allow me a previous note. We realize that, in this House and in this debate, there are two different visions: a vision of the parties on the left, which are against a social market economy, are against international trade, are against the globalisation of the economy and, in this sense, are against movement and probably even the existence of capital; and another view, of whom is in favour of an open economy, without barriers, an economy that regulates international trade, which stimulates foreign direct investment, which is essential for Portugal. And these, yes, are truly against a protectionist economy, with barriers and closed over itself. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u28	In addition, it is important to remember that the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Green Green Ecological Party have never been in favour of signing any trade treaty of the European Union and even mistrust that they are against the common market itself and the freedom of movement of capital, people, goods and services. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u29	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, globalization is not a theory or ideology!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u30	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u31	Globalization is our reality today and it is not because you do not believe in it that it will disappear. For this reason, in an open and global economy system we still know how we can influence this openness and how we can prepare ourselves for that same openness. Moreover, in Portugal, the discussion between an open economy and a closed economy is not new. 500 years ago, when Portugal began the process of globalisation, turning to the sea, turning to the Atlantic, there were also those who argued that we should be closed on ourselves, that we should be confined to the European space, that we should have protective barriers. This character in our history has a name: it is the Old Restel. [[Protests by BE Member José Luís Ferreira.]] Who in this corporeal debate the Old of the Rest is this reactionary left,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[PCP laughter.]] ... is this immobilist left that does not realize that, with liberalisation, with the regulation of international trade, we can promote more economic growth, more employment, more wealth, more economy and, in this sense, better income distribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u32	They said the same thing about accession to the EEC!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u33	The discussion we are having today on the TTIP is especially important for Portugal because it increases the possibility of sustained economic growth. in this sense, Portugal, which is, and will always be, within the European Union, a more peripheral country, will become a central country ; it has centrality in this Atlantic framework and this strengthens our position within the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u35	That is why it is very important for us to have an agreement, but it must be a good agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u36	The CDS already had two jackets!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u37	An agreement that effectively guarantees us that we can reduce customs and non-tariff barriers to trade. An agreement that guarantees us that, for example, in conflict resolution mechanisms, we have the effective guarantee of defending our sovereignty. I would therefore like to raise two very focused questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u38	Mr. Deputies, you'll have to be quick because you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. In recognition of the fact that there are a number of sectors which, because of their difficulties, will have many challenges — and I remember - at the moment, the agro-industrial and agricultural sectors - I would like to ask the Minister what kind of measures, what kind of support we can find both at the national level and at the Community level to ensure that the competitiveness of these sectors and these companies is not put at stake. A second question about the digital economy. What happened in the last round of negotiations, because for us this sector is very important. Finally, as far as arbitration is concerned, I would like you to give us here a guarantee that the sovereignty of States, in particular in the capacity to have national resources, is not called into question. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u40	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We welcome the Green Party for bringing this issue to debate. The European Union continues, under a cover of secrecy, not allowing democratic scrutiny of the process, negotiations with the United States of America on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, commonly known as TTIP. The TTIP, like other free trade agreements such as CETA, aims to go further in the liberalisation of trade and services by trying to eliminate any barriers to the domain of large multinationals over the economies of sovereign states. In view of the light of the day, the TTIP would contain serious threats to social and labour rights, to various sectors of the national economy, to public health, to environmental quality and natural conditions, as well as to democracy and to national sovereignty. In terms of workers'rights and incomes, it would represent a serious step back, insofar as the Agreement provides for the lowering of labour legislation by way of harmonisation with the labour legislation of the United States of America. Small and medium-sized enterprises will face more difficulties, which will certainly lead to the closure and, consequently, to the destruction of jobs, to the loss of tax revenue and to the increase of social security pressures. Studies by the European Commission itself point to a worrying scenario of job destruction. And, with regard to the Portuguese economy, the studies are slowing down our growth, pointing to one of the worst performances in the countries of the European Union. The treaty also includes an essential chapter designated by ISDS (investor-state dispute settlement ), also known as an investor dispute resolution mechanism / state, which means the neutralization of state justice and law enforcement in all differences that can motivate the interest of large economic and financial groups and transnational capital. And no, Mr President of the CDS, the Portuguese Communist Party is not against these capitals, it is effectively against the international trade which does not take into account and does not serve the interests of the country and the workers, contrary to what the CDS is! The CDS only defends transnational capital. [[PCP applause.]] The TTIP would be used to promote the liberalization and privatization of public services in areas such as education, water, energy, solid waste, as well as to deepen the commercialization of culture by putting into question hard social rights conquered by the peoples. If for the workers and for the people the partnership agreement would be a compressor role of their sovereignty, of their social and labor rights and achievements, of the standards of protection of health, nature and natural resources, for the great capital it will be an excellent vehicle to increase the exploitation and accumulation of capital. This agreement faces the growing opposition of large sectors of the population and of social and political organizations that in several countries raise their voice against the TTIP. The CFP considers it essential to disseminate the content, nature and objectives of the TTIP and urges the Portuguese Government to promote a broad public debate on it and to inform the Portuguese people of its position in the negotiation process.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u42	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that the TTIP must be subject to binding ratification by the Assembly of the Republic and rejected. For the CFP, the rejection of the transatlantic treaty should be considered in the context of the rupture with the neoliberal, militarist and federalist direction of the European Union and the construction of another Europe : of peace, cooperation, progress and social justice, where sovereign left and patriotic solutions are adopted...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u45	...to place the defence of peoples, their rights and aspirations as their immediate objective. That's why we're here, that's why the people can count on us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u46	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u47	Mr President, Mr Mota Soares : The «News of the Rest » which now proclaim the advantages of these treaties, curiously, are the same as those which, when accession to the euro, proclaimed the advantages. They were just advantages: employment, growth... And the result was what you saw! Mr.António Ventura, from the PSD, comes to talk to us about creating poor people. Mr. Deputies, creating poor is with the PSD and the CDS. Just look at the last four years! [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]] You don't have to go any further. Therefore, creating the poor is on this side. Mr Minister, I know that this government, and Mr Minister, « took the train in progress » in the case of TTIP, and almost « get to the station » in the case of CETA. Still, we are concerned about these two treaties, about all that they represent, and also about the fact that today the'red line' was not the resolution, but the substantial reduction in the social and environmental standards of Europe. And at this point, we need to know what that means, which means a substantial reduction in standards. We know little about this, because the consultation which is given to Members is surrounded by restrictions and, above all, the only version available is in English.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u48	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u49	What we are aware of is the leaks of information, such as that of Greenpeace at the beginning of May, through which we learned that Washington is trying to change the legislative process of the European Union, reducing regulatory standards, in particular as regards the cosmetics industry and the use of pesticides in agro-industry. What we know is that the general exceptions which are enshrined in the GATT Agreement ( General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ) of the World Trade Organization almost 70 years ago and which allow States to restrict trade to protect human, animal and plant life or the conservation of natural resources do not include these treaties. What we also know is that there is no forecast for climate protection in the TTIP text, which is not understood because the Paris Summit targets are to be met and trade cannot be excluded from the CO2 emission reduction specifications. However, there is no reference to this matter. And the same is true of the precautionary principle, which is literally adulterated by the imposition of the United States of America, which is strange because the precautionary principle has even been enshrined in the Treaty on European Union. Mr Minister, the Government says that the mandate of the European Commission has ‘red lines’. What I have to ask you now is whether the targets set at the Paris Summit on Climate Change are also part of these « red lines ». Finally, Mr Minister, at the moment there is a discussion within Europe as to whether or not CETA is solely within the competence of the European Commission. There are countries that understand yes and there are others that impose on this claim. I think it was important to know the position of the government in this matter. This is very important because, as the agreement is understood to be mixed or not, national parliaments will have a say or not. It would therefore be important for the Government to tell us here whether these treaties, because of their importance, should or should not be subject to a process of ratification by the Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u50	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the Greens for bringing this issue to debate. The Transatlantic Treaty for Trade and Investment, known as TTIP, enters July 14. the negotiating round. It will start in Brussels and promises to be complex after some countries like France have threatened to break the negotiations. Here between us, we hope it's not just rhetoric. In parallel, there is growing civic mobilization in all countries involved in the negotiations so that more social actors and non-governmental organizations can be part of the debate process of this treaty. Here in Portugal our governments have made the promotion that the TTIP will bring more benefits than damage. Many variables, doubts and uncertainties; however, only one certainty of our governments: that the TTIP is an opportunity. But will there be an alternative to this treaty if there is a breakdown in negotiations? Or will the immense investment made in this "Troia Horse" be greater than the humility to conceive that there may be more and better ways to build an economy that really benefits social well-being and protect the rest of the beings and ecosystems?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u52	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. Will we be talking too much in private and supranational forums about the future of Europe, as happened last weekend at the Bilderberg Club Conference in Germany, and little with our citizens? We have left these questions to be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u54	Mr Deputies, you have used time given by the PS at this stage and I think you will use time given by the PSD and the Left Block in the second intervention. This is the information available to the Bureau. For an intervention, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am very grateful for the questions raised, for which I am allowed to sum up in five and to all of them I shall try to answer. Before that, I wanted to take a general consideration of the models and economic concepts involved here. One of the advantages that CETA already has and that the TTIP, if negotiated as the European Commission and the Member States want, will allow us to escape the dichotomy between the protectionist economy and the unregulated economy. This is precisely because what is being sought is to regulate international trade and thus make a very important contribution to regulating globalisation. In fact, I also do not endorse the meaning of the expressions of « Old Man of Rest », but I also never forget the first warnings: « O glory to send! O vă cobiza». And TTIP and CETA are precisely instruments to regulate and therefore prevent the glory from sending and coveting. As regards the first question raised, on the limits of negotiation from a European point of view, they are clear and they all aim at avoiding deregulation and, on the contrary, making the trade and economic agreement between Europe and the United States what CETA can also be, and is already, in substance: a regulatory instrument. How can this be seen, in particular? Through an imperative mandate given by the Council by the European Commission, and it is a very precise mandate: of the TTIP celebration, there can be no reduction in the levels of protection of public health, environmental protection, compliance with the precautionary principle, food security and current labour legislation in Europe. This is very clear, as we will see further when we examine the issue of dispute resolution mechanisms. Public services are not understood within the framework of the CETA and will not be understood within the framework of the TTIP, i.e. States are sovereign in democratic decisions they intend to take on the provision and organization of their public services, such as health, social security, education or water supply to populations. So there's no need to be afraid of this picture. It is a regulatory approximation framework for the United States to European standards, and not the other way around. The second question concerns the ratification process. We will distinguish the process of ratification of the TTIP. Once the agreement has been concluded, it is clear that in the light of the Commission's imperative mandate, the TTIP will have a mixed nature. Having a mixed nature, that is, including the powers of the Member States themselves, will also be subject to a process of ratification, which includes codecision by the Council and the European Parliament and subsequent ratification by the Member States, meaning, in the Portuguese case, the approval of this House. in the case of CETA, the majority of Member States, including Portugal, also defend the mixed nature of the treaty, which means that CETA should also be subject to the ratification process which I described: codecision by the Council and the European Parliament, ratification by the Member States, which, in the Portuguese case, also implies approval by the national Parliament. We are awaiting the presentation of the proposal for a decision by the European Commission, which is scheduled for the next 5 July, to examine the outcome of this debate, but the opinion of the majority of the Member States and the opinion of the Member State of Portugal is that CETA also has a mixed nature and therefore implies a process of ratification in which the participation of our national Parliament is necessary. On the third question, concerning the progress of the negotiations, we will enter the next month of July on 14. the round. The positions are still very far from each other. As the documents that have come to the public show, the European Commission has been intransigent in defending European interests and in fulfilling the mandate it has received from the Council and specifically on the issue of the digital world at 13. the round was very focused on results and these results have to move forward. I fully agree with Mrs Isabel Pires' statement that it is not possible to have an attitude to say yes to an agreement because yes. As I myself said in the initial intervention, it only makes sense to say yes to the agreement if it is a robust, productive and ambitious agreement. On the fourth and penultimate issue, on what will happen to sectors whose situation may be difficult, I will say that the overall balance sheet that we can anticipate is largely positive. It is positive from the geostrategic point of view, it is positive from the geopolitical point of view and it is also positive from the economic point of view, including for the regulation of globalisation, and I insist on this point. But, of course, as in all trade and investment agreements, more attention must be paid to those sectors or products which will be subject to enhanced competition. How does this increased attention materialize? In two ways: in the course of the negotiation process itself, ensuring sensitive products, i.e. products which are, as they are, or are out of tariff dismantling, or maintain tariffs of tariff protection or which are temporary, or are subject to quota limits. in CETA, the text of which is concluded, there are already several products, including products in which Portugal had a ‘defensive’ interest, i.e. products that we are interested in protecting, are included among sensitive products. in the current state of the negotiations, some of the products sensitive from the Portuguese point of view, particularly in the tomato concentrate sector, are also 2 or 3 % in cases where dismantling will not be carried out in the protection of these products. We must monitor the entire process of negotiation carefully until this resource for integrating sensitive products, products that are of particular interest to us, is maintained. That's a plan. There is another plan, that of the Member States' national economic policy measures, and of course there will be policy measures to enable sectors that need additional attention and follow-up in the process of adapting to new market conditions to benefit from this attention and additional investment. This is, in fact, what makes sense to public policies, including in the area of the economy, and what makes it precisely possible to combat the greed of those who would like to eliminate the state, privatize everything and empty public policies. With regard to the last issue, concerning the resolution of disputes, I would like to say that this issue is very important. Mr José Luís Ferreira drew attention to the errors and dangers contained in the mechanism called ISDS. Because we are aware of this is that this mechanism has already been corrected, including in CETA. in the process of final legal review of CETA, it was possible to introduce a new mechanism, which is ICS ( Investment Court System ), which is a mechanism that seeks to respond to the dangers and mistakes that Mr. What are the guarantees that this mechanism gives additionally? First of all, and very important, the conditions under which international investors may appeal to the arbitral tribunal to defend their interests to the States with which they had contracted investment. They are strictly limited to cases of discrimination on grounds of gender, discrimination on grounds of race or religion, discrimination on grounds of nationality, expropriation without compensation or denial of justice. It is not a question of challenging, in the arbitral tribunal, entirely legitimate democratic decisions of the Member States concerning environmental legislation, labour legislation, public health protection or food security. It is a logic of arbitration which, itself, has a mechanism of appeal, therefore two instances of arbitration, developed by judges, constituted by the parties, but not constituted ad hoc, on a case-by-case basis, and judges subject to rules for the prevention of conflicts of very own interests. The government therefore follows the concerns that all banks have expressed about these dispute resolution mechanisms in the case of investments, but, as I have tried to explain, the guarantees we can give are very firm guarantees. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u56	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second round. Mr Nuno Serra, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: European trade policy is not only an essential tool for Europe's strategic vision, for its economic growth, but also a strong contribution to the geopolitical affirmation of the European project that has to have this ambition. The consolidation of an international agreement should translate into partnerships that share common values in the case of democracy and human rights and that guarantee stability in markets, in addition to sustained growth for the future, this growth is a fundamental instrument for the challenges facing Europe. Europe, without opening up stable new markets such as those we are discussing today, both with Canada and with the transatlantic partnership, is subject to numerous external conditions. Just look at what has happened in recent times, whether in the Russian embargo, whether in the oil crisis, which has brought more difficulties to trade with many African countries or Central America. More: by not creating new strong and stable trade partnerships, Europe is subject to a completely unregulated competitiveness of Asian giants and the enormous instability in the Middle East and African countries. And this, yes, is a huge fragility for those who reside and work in this European bloc. However, the PSD understands the reason for this debate and the concern about this matter. But this concern and concern does not mean that we should block these opportunities at all costs, as the Greens want. In order to do so - to attempt to block an opportunity of these - it is to reduce and limit the economic growth of European companies... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u58	...and expolate consumers of new options and opportunities. To be in denial with international trade agreements is undoubtedly an incomprehensive, closed, retrograde and unintegrated vision, and if we do so, considering that the other economic blocs in the world are increasingly competitive, we will lose opportunities that others will not lose. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u59	Our vision of the transatlantic partnership is positive, clear and constructive. We know well what our values and our borders are in social rights, environmental issues, public health and food security,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u60	... but we also know that we cannot be « proudly alone », because, contrary to what the left defends, companies do not grow without market, without consumers and jobs do not appear by decree. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u61	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u62	We are also aware that the implementation of the TTIP calls for the defence and creation of numerous mechanisms that have led to some European productive sectors under this agreement. in this sense, we believe that the European Union and its Member States must define carefully the defensive and offensive interests in the agri-food sector, also taking advantage of this opportunity to improve and invest more in the threatened sectors, in order to ensure greater competitiveness and growth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u63	Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u64	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The debate here today goes beyond purely commercial issues is a civil debate. After the Second World War, perhaps we are doing a reading of the relations between Europe and the United States, which is in keeping with the circumstances, perhaps we are having a debate where Europe and the United States want to introduce rules for regulating the globalisation we are witnessing. That is why today's debate is very important, and this is a debate for which we ask all parties to carry out their arguments and positions, so that we can take it to all citizens. That is why the Greens initiative we are debating today is very relevant, and all parties bring to the debate initiatives and proposals that should be taken into account. First of all, what are we discussing? We are debating the need to open markets and deepen international trade. It was international trade that strengthened art and music, it was international trade that strengthened research, it was international trade that strengthened our Western democracy and we should go further in the state in which we are in international trade with the United States and Canada. But the European Union cannot at this time relieve the one who is its central social state defence heritage, of the right that all workers have to their dignity, their wages and working conditions, of all the rights that States have not only to reduce the implications of unacceptable practices of industries and trade in their environment, as in looking at public health as a heritage, which in Europe is central to people. Therefore, when we affirm in this debate the need to walk towards a meeting of wills between Europe and the United States, we also mean that this meeting of wills cannot be done against what is Europe's heritage, of valuing its reality as a civilization. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Members, this debate meets the Socialist Party in the same position as always and on the same point. The Socialist Party is in favour of a trade agreement with the United States and Canada, but the PS wants this debate to take place transparently and with the participation of all Europeans. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u65	On behalf of the BE Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u66	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Since the first hour of the Left Block's serious and well-founded reservations to the negotiations of the trade agreement with Canada ( CETA ) and the Transatlantic Partnership Treaty with the United States of America ( TTIP ). He therefore always defended the suspension of negotiations. In this case we are talking about two treaties negotiated on the back of the peoples, whose main aim is to respond to the desires of multinationals for an increasingly open market, ideally without major barriers or regulations, whether they are labour, environmental, social, public health or food, and which opens the public services essential to the possibility of privatization or concession. We are talking about two treaties that overlap, legally and politically, the protection of citizens' rights to work with rights and, for example, a diet with high standards of demand to the profits of the large economic groups. This overlap is reflected in dispute resolution mechanisms which, although they have undergone changes throughout the 13 rounds of negotiations, continue to fail to guarantee the position of the State as a legislator first for public policies and the common good, giving legal tools to companies to penalise States for profits they wished to obtain. It is sufficient to look at the existing examples of similar mechanisms, such as the ISDS mechanism under the NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement) in Canada, where Canada has already paid US companies in favour of investors more than EUR 135 million in seven cases to date. Historical examples should also be relevant to the debate. Therefore, historical examples should also be relevant here for the debate. In short, we are talking about two treaties that do not guarantee anything to the people, but guarantee everything to the great capital. And it is ironic that, on this point, the right is concerned with citizens, contrary to other positions. from a democratic point of view, the doubts are many and so far, with the exception of few countries, such as Germany, France and some Spanish cities, the public debate on these matters is too much below what would be desirable. These agreements open up too many legal gaps in their application and enter into force without ratification by the Member States, and that is also condemned. We know that it has been said that the European Commission has red lines or irrevocable conditions in this negotiation on the issues already under discussion today, but we also know that within Europe red lines easily cease to be red and irrevocable decisions become reprehensible, especially in an atmosphere of negotiation in which the American and multinational powers are growing. And since the balance at the moment does not seem to be hanging on the side of the protection of citizens, it was important to have these government guarantees. however, until now, we have just concluded that there are only plans without proper implementation, and with such uncertainties cannot be compacted at any time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u67	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Avila has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Among those who prefer an open country to the world and those who defend a closed country about themselves, we, in the CDS, are clearly with the first ones, who know that we do not live alone and that living alone is not an answer to our problems. Those who don't need TTIP are the great multinationals, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Sure!]] [[Rice from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u69	It's the big capital. These don't need TTIP for strictly nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u71	Whoever needs the TTIP is the European market, it is the economies of the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u72	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, I would like to put on the table, Mr Minister, geopolitics, in particular the geopolitics of energy, which today is an important theme of the European and non-European debate. We all know that Portugal is a European country, but it is also an Atlantic country, and Portugal will be all the more in Europe than being able to be a leading actor in the approach of Europe to regions of the world where it has always been, and is competent, where it has always been, and is, especially respected and where it has always been, and is, especially experienced.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u75	in this framework, Mr Minister, using until today's expression of the perfect mediator and given that the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States is at the heart of this transatlantic geography, energy is increasingly an area of Portuguese national interest, but se-CL - it would always, even outside this debate, due to the political pressure made by Russia to a large part of the European countries and also the result of the ongoing energy revolution in the United States, in particular in the production of shale gas. We are thus faced with a new world energy map, which has changed at a galloping speed in the last five years. The geography of Portugal should be valued as the gateway to the US gas in Europe, contributing to the diversification of the European Union's energy sources, accelerating the completion of the single energy market and restoring the internal balance of European energy. Mr Minister, the inclusion of the energy file is essential in the TTIP negotiating framework. The creation of a transatlantic internal market requires that we focus on the implications of the energy gap between the United States and the European Union. This is a crucial point not only of negotiating the partnership agreement in existing asymmetries but also in dysfunctions, in terms of competition, by access to cheaper energy. Finally, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to another aspect which also has to do with the connection with Canada, which are the opportunities that may arise not only in the context of investment and trade but also in the energy framework. It seems, Mr Minister, that there is an emerging Atlantic, for which Portugal cannot be distracted or isolated, and also a political opportunity to strengthen ourselves in the European debate and to bypass what is our usual and traditional continental periphery. Mr Minister, realizing that the Government aligns with the moderate PS in this area, I would ask you to comment on this geopolitical framework focused on transatlantic energy and also on Portugal's repositioning as a fundamental player in connection between the United States, Canada and the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u76	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : when discussing treaties established between the European Union and third countries or areas, we cannot fail to remember their effects in national production sectors, particularly in agriculture. Agreements with Morocco or Mercosur are a good example of who benefits and who is harmed by treaties. Both Morocco and Mercosur compete directly with the countries of southern Europe, in particular Portugal, in their agricultural productions, and these treaties open their doors to their products in Europe. In exchange, they buy technology and machinery, as a rule produced in the centre / north of Europe, particularly in Germany. It is appropriate to apply to the treaties the famous football phrase: it is 11 to 11 and in the end always wins Germany! It is through experience that Portugal should put the « sauce beards » wrong to speak of treaties negotiated by the European Union. [[Laughing.]] To understand the interests of the transatlantic treaty, it is sufficient to see the pressure groups created by European and American multinationals to ensure their implementation. of the various implications of the already identified transatlantic treaty, it is known that family agriculture, less intensive production, local and proximity markets, food sovereignty and food quality will be affected. The United States of America has different conceptions of food production, accepted among its citizens, but unacceptable to Europeans. It is sufficient to see that Americans have a much wider use of the cultivation and marketing of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs ), and with TTIP will be imposed on Europeans to eliminate restrictions or prohibitions on the use of GMOs, as well as to have a less restrictive view on the use of pesticides. Through these processes biodiversity will not only be reduced, as farmers will be in the hands of the multinational producers of these GMOs. in the United States it is acceptable to use hormones in meat production, chlorate compounds in birds, as well as endocrine disruptors, this in meat for human consumption. This practice is not only admissible by European consumers as it allows American livestock producers to produce at much lower costs. in this sense, the treaty represents a serious threat to public health, food security and the environment. Besides that in the United States, the Names of Protected Origin (PDO) are not recognized, for them anyone produces cheese Serra da Estrela or Port Wine. Who will European farmers be able to compete in such a situation? Very few, certainly, this when we know the ability of the United States, the large market economy, to put the greatest difficulties in the entry of foreign products into your country. As far as clarity is concerned, what will be the transatlantic food production treaty nothing beat the words of Vital Moreira when he was President of the Commission who was accompanying the matter in the European Parliament. The Euro MP said that this treaty was an opportunity for Portugal, because our country is able to produce high quality products, but because we have little financial capacity, we sell these products to whom it can pay and we consume products of lower quality and more suitable to our possibilities. It is almost impossible to understand what it is for and to whom it serves: it serves the interests of transnational economic and financial groups, but it does not serve the interests of peoples and the sovereignty of States. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u78	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u79	Mr President, Mr Minister, I would first of all like to note with pleasure the fact that the position of the Portuguese Government in relation to CETA is that this treaty has a mixed nature, which means that it will also be passed through the Assembly of the Republic for ratification. In fact, the information that Mr Minister gave us today even contradicts the news that was published last week in Le Monde, which included Portugal in the lot of countries that considered CETA to be the exclusive subject of the European Commission and therefore wanted to leave this record here. Today we have heard about the potential benefits to the economy from these agreements for exports, investment, opportunities for businesses and also for Portuguese workers. But it would be good if we looked at the facts. And I leave only the example of Mexico before and after its accession to NAFTA, which, as we know, is a treaty similar to that we are now discussing, where growth has experienced a brutal slowdown, when the rate of growth in the rest of Latin America, especially in South America, has been much higher, the real wages remain at 1994 levels and unemployment has increased substantially. We also know that these treaties are made according to multinationals and our economy is a small economy where micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have absolutely decisive weight. Now, to see our small and medium-sized companies competing with the great multinationals, I think it's easier to believe in Santa Claus! Then there is a study by the European Parliament, which also needs to be taken into account and which tells us that with the entry into force of the TTIP, probably 1 million Europeans will be without their employment. In fact, it is a report with predictions that the European Commission itself came to confirm. Mr Minister, with regard to CETA, in addition to the question of ratification, there are countries that support the immediate entry into force of the Treaty even before the European Parliament takes its position — which is called provisional application or experimental period. I would like to know what the Government's position on this matter is, until we had the information that the Portuguese Government had agreed in the Council that CETA could enter into force before the European Parliament decided. And I would like to know whether the Minister confirms this information, even because it is contradictory to the government's position on the mixed nature of CETA. [[Applause from The Greens and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u80	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor, which has time given by PS, 30 seconds, PSD, 15 seconds, and the Left Block, 15 seconds. As you can see, they were all extremely generous and, of course, all exceeded the times they had. [[Laughing.]] So, with a generosity of these... Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u81	Mr President, I thank the parliamentary groups who gave me time. Mr Foreign Minister, to be against the TTIP and against CETA is not to be anti-Europe or anti-Commerce. It's not being populist or even nationalist. on the contrary, the rejection of these treaties reinforces the importance of our national identity in the most basic foundations of sovereignty. As a society we are tired of being subject to these international markets, to the bureaucratic wills of supranational institutions and to productive ideologies that only quantify human relations and exchanges, in an infinite spiral of consumption and growth. We hope that, outside these doors, more citizens and movements will be involved in the discussion of this theme so that together we can understand that a sustainable, ethical and prosperous economy does not go from top to bottom, such as the TTIP negotiations, but from bottom to top, as the current desire for social change. And let us raise the question again to Minister Augusto Santos Silva: will this government bring the final document of the TTIP to vote in this Parliament or will it take a bypass to national democracy and refer the decision to the European Parliament? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u82	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u83	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the questions raised in this round. The first question is the importance of trade policy. The European Union's trade policy is indeed an opportunity for the European Union. Today we are discussing CETA and TTIP, but we could make a huge list of other trade treaties that the European Union has recently signed throughout its history.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u85	I refer to treaties with Singapore, with Korea, with Japan. In addition to these treaties, it is important to take into account that the trade dimension is an important dimension in partnership treaties, both with countries and with regions around the world. I believe that this dimension of trade policy is important to the economies, but it is also, and has been increasingly, an instrument of regulation in the context of globalisation. There are very few instruments that allow us to act in regulation in the context of globalisation and we systematically call attention to the lack of capacity to act in regulation, in the context of globalization, and commercial contracts are a regulatory instrument.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u86	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u87	The second question is transparency, and I would very easily follow Mrs Isabel Pires' statements if we were to talk about the period from 2013 to the beginning of 2015. Indeed, I agree with the fact that, initially, in the debate of this treaty, now under negotiation, there has been very little transparency with regard to the knowledge of what was systematically on the agenda of negotiations in each round. And there was a huge challenge from European public opinion that led the European Commission to create a portal where all documents on the European Commission side and all consolidated documents, resulting from negotiation in successive rounds, are available. Indeed, there has been progress with regard to transparency in the TTIP negotiation. And today, in spite of everything, is it reducing that only European Members who join the INTA Commission ( International Trade) can access the reading room in the European Commission? It is! Is it a reduction that only Members of the national parliaments can access reading rooms in the different Member States of the European Union? It is! But it was possible to agree in the context of this negotiation. And above all, what I think is important is to see that there has been a significant change in access to information. The third question is ratification of the TTIP. I believe that the answer in this matter was clear, but I must say that, when the negotiating mandate is given to the European Commission, the Minister immediately considered it to be a mixed treaty, i.e. the combination of exclusive competences of the European Union and competences relating to the competences of the Member States. So it's defined that it's an agreement, a mixed treaty. As a mixed treaty, it must necessarily be subject to ratification by the national parliaments. with regard to CETA, Portugal argued that CETA is also a mixed treaty; Portugal alongside, I would say, of almost all the Member States of the European Union. Today, there is a conflict between the position of the Member States and the position of the European Commission with regard to the Statute of the Treaty. The Commission considers that it is a treaty where there is exclusive competence of the European Union, the majority of the Member States, including Portugal, believe it is a mixed treaty. In the case of a joint treaty, it will have to have the ratification of national parliaments. with regard to the possibility of the entry into force of the Treaty, there are also two aspects to be taken into account here: the only dimensions which are concerned, when it comes to the anticipation of the entry into force of the Treaty, are those which correspond to the areas of the exclusive competence of the European Union and not to the competence of the Member States, they will have to be ratified by the Assembly of the Republic, by the national parliaments. Therefore, the power to anticipate the entry into force concerns only what is the sole competence of the European Union. Regarding the studies that have been carried out, there is a huge diversity of studies on the impact of the treaty, with regard to the economy and employment in the different sectors most directly affected by the treaty, the TTIP, and indeed all studies — some with methodological quality, others without methodological quality — point to growth in the economy of the order of 0, 4 % and employment growth. There are, of course, studies with more optimistic scenarios and more pessimistic scenarios. Finally, with regard to other positions which Portugal has taken in this negotiation, I would like to highlight, above all, the issue that has been raised in the field of energy. Portugal has indeed supported the relevance of including a chapter in the TTIP containing energy provisions, due to the relevance of the US export of liquefied natural gas to Europe, which emphasises the strategic and geo-strategic dimension of the TTIP that we have already spoken about. And from this point of view, Portugal is in a privileged position, given its geographical location, since we have always expressed our interest in the inclusion of this chapter in the TTIP. Finally, I refer to the case of small and medium-sized enterprises that structure the Portuguese economy, because the Portuguese economy is essentially based on small and medium-sized enterprises. However, nowadays, only a small part of these small and medium-sized enterprises export outside the European market, not reaching 3000 national companies that can have access to the American market. It is therefore essential that the TTIP configuration enables small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit fully from what is enshrined in the agreement. Finally, we maintain an interest in the recognition and protection of geographical indications — a very important issue for Portugal and for almost all the Member States of the European Union — because it is an essential element for national exports of emblematic products, such as Port Wine, Madeira Wine, São Jorge's cheese and other products which today make up the list of European geographical indications. We are trying to safeguard that this issue is also included in the treaty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u88	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the conclusion of the debate, we shall proceed to the closing phase. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the opportunity of this debate. I want to say, firstly, that I do not understand that criticizing the TTIP or the CETA is illegitimate. on the contrary, I believe that criticisms are all welcome, perplexities are some and history shows that we must be very cautious, very careful. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the whole critical discussion is welcome. Nor do I believe that we are here at a time when the world is understandable to black and white: some would be in favour of the open economies, others, by criticizing those economies, would be inexcusably postponed to the hell of the closed economies. on the contrary, what is at stake here, above all, is an effort to regulate the international economy, and it is very important that this effort of international regulation be made by dialogue, which, as experience has shown, is very tense, between the two major economic blocs, the one of the united States and the one of the European Union. How can we see this regulatory effort? Just picking up historical examples. Several Mrs. Members, particularly Mrs Isabel Pires, Mr João Ramos, have given us examples of problems, cases, historical examples that should lead us to be very careful, very careful now. And what we are just doing is creating a new regulatory framework to avoid all these cases that have described, all cases that have for a long time made international trade a factor in aggravating the inequalities of the world and the deregulation of financial globalization. Both the CETA and the TTIP are the efforts, at least seen from the European side, to pull the regulation of the international economy into acceptable standards. What, for us, is the minimum level acceptable? It is the principle which defends the interests and rights of workers, the principle that defends the interests and rights of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the principle that defends the sovereignty of States in decisions they intend to take on how they want to organize their public services, their social state. Folko, in fact, to see that the CDS and PSD benches, when discussing the TTIP, are so emphatic in defending public services. I would take this as a sign that they will become more emphatic in defending public services in internal policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is because it does not seem very coherent to me to defend, and well, that the organisation of public services in social security, health, education or water supply should be guaranteed in negotiations with the United States and to meet in the internal policy proposals for privatization exactly those same services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have to say, even by professional experience, that I am not too enthusiastic about the studies that are developed in a logic of constant stagnation, that we are going to assume that we'd rather follow the practical examples. To discuss the TTIP we have a practical example, which is the example of the treaty whose negotiation is already concluded, the CETA. Mr João Ramos was concerned, and very well, with the protection of geographical indications of origin. It is an essential interest of Portugal, but he knows as well as I that 145 geographical indications of protected origin from countries of the European Union are guaranteed in CETA, and of these 145, 19 are Portuguese. We have come forward, and we simply compare, in fact, the ongoing negotiation process with that which led to the so-called “Transpacífic Partnership between the United States and 11 other Pacific countries”, to realize the huge difference this TTIP will represent. Exactly why? Because the negotiating logic of the European Union is the logic of protecting the European social model. That is why we all agree—it is my conclusion—because the government relies on understanding that, from different perspectives, entirely legitimate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u90	Mr. Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. The Government takes the view that, starting from different perspectives, of course, all parliamentary groups have expressed themselves in a way that only means that they support the Portuguese Government and all the governments that are in the present negotiation so that the imperative mandate received by the European Commission is fulfilled and, therefore, that this treaty means an advance in international trade and also in the generalization of social rights, environmental rights and concerns with food security and public health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u92	You have the floor, for an intervention to close the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the close of the debate that the Greens have scheduled, it is important not only to stress the importance of the issues under discussion but also its unequivocal opportunity. In fact, both the TTIP and the CETA can have very heavy effects on the lives of the peoples of Europe and, above all, on our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u95	As we saw during the debate, what was under discussion was the attempt by the economic power to overcome political power. What was at stake was whether or not we agreed to this claim by multinationals to conquer Europe. What was at stake was whether or not we agreed with multinationals to extend and safeguard their fabulous profits. What was at stake was whether we defended the rule of law and the rule of law or whether we delivered our destiny, from tray, to multinationals. And the parliamentary benches, in this debate, had the opportunity to say, say which side they are on. We have heard about the potential benefits to the economy from these agreements: they reduce obstacles, bring export and investment benefits and create opportunities for Portuguese businesses and workers. It is only advantages, and, curiously, they come from the same ones that a few years ago announced accession to the euro as being the leap for kindness. It was only advantages: the economy would grow, exports would not talk, investment would shoot and employment would appear. After all, that's what you saw! And now the solution for them is in these treaties. It happens that the studies that exist require a slow review of so much optimism. Let us see: in the middle of last month, Brussels reported on the expected impacts of the TTIP. What does the report tell us? It tells us that later the treaty was fully implemented, so in 2030, the difference in the GDP of the European Union, with and without TTIP, is only 0, 5 %, this in a scenario described in the report itself, as very ambitious. For Portugal, the same report points to a virtually residual growth rate. Then let us stop talking, we all realize that these treaties aim to protect multinationals and that we have a small open economy, based above all on micro and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and therefore not multinationals. This means that these agreements will represent a real knife in the lives of Portuguese micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Does anyone believe that our micro, small and medium-sized companies will compete on an equal footing with the powerful multinationals? Just a joke, just a mental reservation. On employment and job creation, it is important to remember the report of the European Parliament called TTIP and Jobs. This report provides that 1 million Europeans may lose their jobs as a result of the entry into force of the TTIP. The European Commission itself, moreover, confirms that at least 600 000 Europeans will lose their jobs and can double the number if the TTIP is fully fulfilled. This report, submitted in Brussels at the end of last month, also stresses that the European Union and the United States of America will issue more than 21 million tonnes of CO2 to the atmosphere if the TTIP is ahead, calling into question the Paris climate change agreements. But, of course, that does not matter at all, because, for multinationals, combating climate change is a real mess. As it is, for example, a disarray that in Europe only transgenic cultivation is allowed, while in the United States of America 105 different varieties of transgenics can be cultivated. It's bullshit! It is a mess that TTIP can solve multinationals and enable them to transform Europe into a paradise for transgenics and their production. In short, the entry into force of these treaties will constitute an unparalleled attack on the sovereignty of States and their ability to freely define the economic and social policies they best understand to respond to the needs of their peoples. It is not surprising, therefore, that more than 3 million European citizens, of whom 23 000 are Portuguese, have signed the European initiative against the ratifications of CETA and the TTIP. Also among us, the platform No to the Treaties TTIP / CETA / TISA has promoted a petition addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, through which thousands of Portuguese citizens claim that the text of CETA and its consequences are publicly discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and that the decision on its ratification, or not, takes place in the Assembly of the Republic. On behalf of the Greens, I would also like to welcome the platform, especially those here, to follow up on the work. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that the Greens defend the non-ratification of CETA and TTIP, because it is a political but also moral imperative, since these treaties pose a threat to the sovereign development of our country, to the social and labour rights of Portuguese, to public services and to our environmental values. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] We disagree here, but I'm going to say it the same way.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u96	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u97	I will finish, Mr. President. For us, it is the multinationals who must be subject to the rules of States and not the States who must be subject to the rules and interests of multinationals. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u98	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the urgent debate called for by the Greens and, consequently, the first item on our agenda. The second item on the agenda consists in the general discussion of Bill No. 23 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes a system for the reimbursement of fuel taxes for freight transport undertakings by amending the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, approved by Decree-Law No 73 / 2010 of 21 June 2010 and the General Tax Offences Regime, approved by Law No 15 / 2011 of 5 June 2011. For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The differences between the taxes applied in Portugal, Spain and France to the fuels used by freight carriers have led these companies to move a significant part of their fuel supplies outside Portugal, benefiting from the professional gas oil mechanisms in Spain and France. Reaffirming the option that the taxation of fuels, in addition to its revenue purpose, is an important part of an energy strategy, encouraging both the reduction of consumption of polluting fuels and the reduction of imports, the Government cannot remain indifferent to the consequences that the absence of a professional gas oil scheme in Portugal has on the competitiveness of the freight transport sector. The difference in tax systems confers a significant economic advantage on operators whose logistics bases are closer to low-cost supply sites. This difference also has an impact on competitiveness in the domestic exporting industries, which face higher transport costs, both in the internal movement of production factors and in the placing of goods on the external markets. in the proposal submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic, a scheme is created which allows goods carriers to be returned from the difference between the total taxes applicable in Portugal and the minimum tax to be applied under European Union law, in the same way as in France or Spain, allowing them to reconstitute identical conditions of competition in the tax component. The fact that there is currently a significant trade diversion with the supplies of Portuguese companies to take place in Spain makes it possible to expect that the proposed scheme will have a reduced or zero impact on tax expenditure. The limitation of the negative tax impact of the measure requires the delimitation of a whole of vehicles that ensure this trend of fiscal neutrality, in order not to pay public accounts. The impact on the revenue will result from the difference between the tax loss in supplies already regularly made in Portugal by this universe of vehicles and the tax gain in supplies that are now being made in Portugal. It is proposed that this regime should take effect from 1 January 2017. However, given the need to test the effectiveness of control mechanisms, as well as the response of economic agents, essential to the trend of fiscal neutrality, it is proposed that a pilot project, in part of the national territory, which is already being prepared by the Government, may function as soon as the law enters into force. It is therefore the Government's conviction that we are faced with a measure that can accommodate a more favourable tax system, that will have a zero cost in terms of creating tax expenditure or, at least, very small, in relation to the reduction of costs for the productive sector, in particular in exports, and therefore in relation to the advantage it brings to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government decided in February, in the wake of the budgetary debate, to increase the ISP (charged on petroleum products), a large increase and without any kind of counterpart, an increase with a strong impact on the economy, business life and the lives of families. at the time, the PSD alerted to social injustice which is to increase the ISP, which penalises, to the same extent, an unemployed person or a millionaire. It is an increase that undermines the activity of Portuguese companies. The government has been late to hear PSD alerts, but five months after Portuguese and companies have already made sense in their pocket of this increase in the ISP, we are now here in the Assembly of the Republic to discuss this bill, which is intended to be the least general reply to the price of fuels. This proposal shows that the increase in tax, in addition to exacerbating the lives of the Portuguese, has caused part of the tax revenue to be transferred directly from the Portuguese State’s safes to the Spanish State’s safes. Nor did the Minister of Economics appeal apply to stop the escape to Spain. But is this bill the answer to the problem? PSD doesn't think so. First of all, the Government is preparing to create an exception regime in four border areas, which is called pilot-experience, which negatively discriminates against the rest of the national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u103	Secondly, this measure is intended only for freight transport undertakings, with all other companies excluded and, above all, all excluded families, which have already been bearing the government's bad decision to increase the ISP. Now, there seems to be first Portuguese and second Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u105	Thirdly, this solution brings with it a huge bureaucratic burden. the increase in context costs now brings together the bureaucratic burden. Furthermore, if there was a genuine interest on the part of the Government, a genuine political will to mitigate, in minimizing the impact of the increase in the ISP, the Government should not have created a mechanism of reimbursement but an automatic exemption, so that there is no such bureaucratic burden. What is also evident is that the Government has taken this decision to increase the ISP without worrying about the impact it would have on economic activity, on the lives of Portuguese companies and families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u106	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, I begin by recalling that the Government of your party, the PSD, in the previous year increased fuel by six cents per litre. It does well, from time to time, to remember what happened and what the country has been through. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: This proposal for a law allows the reimbursement of fuels for freight transport operators, i.e. to promote certain amendments to excise duties and also to the general tax law on the subject relating precisely to these amendments. It is important to note that over more than a decade — not just four years, it is more than a decade — international transport companies have shifted a significant part of their activity to Spain, France, precisely because these countries benefit from a special scheme, the professional gas oil regime. And this, in Portugal, as fiscal competitiveness in fuels is particularly crucial for the international transport sector, gives a significant advantage to those closest to where there are low-cost fuels. thus, the absence of this scheme, of the professional gas oil regime, in Portugal has been a reason for the loss of competitiveness of our exports and the loss of competitiveness even of freight transport operators. This is not an avulse measure or a temporary measure. In fact, if they were careful to read the bill, they know that it is a proposal that aims to enter into force on January 1, 2017, but obviously has a period of verification and monitoring to be evaluated from a prudential point of view. This is not about doing something that is not intended first to know the results. We also believe that the implementation of this measure requires such monitoring and an adequate monitoring system for this experimental period to be carried out. This need for monitoring justifies that it is subject to evaluation, which will happen, after the approval of this diploma, by the end of the year in four border areas, with the aim of being in full force throughout the national territory in 2017. But in order for this measure to be effective and financially viable, it is important to assess the deviation of consumption between what was done in Spain and what will happen to Portugal under these measures. The success of this measure also requires control of the vehicle universe and ensuring fiscal neutrality in order not to pay public accounts. I would also like to point out that the success of this measure will essentially depend on the marketers, since the government cannot set the price of fuels. For all this, it is the conviction of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that this measure will allow the return of competitiveness to the transport sector, as well as the return of competitiveness to the Portuguese economy and, in particular, to exports. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the responsibility of the Government is to create conditions conducive to business activity with a view to good economic performance. That's exactly what we're doing here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u108	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a difference, which I would like to point out, between those who increase taxes within the framework of the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u110	That was in 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u111	... of rebalancing public accounts and an external assistance programme and who promises to turn the page of austerity, promises to enter a cycle of economic growth and makes a brutal increase in taxes, particularly in that tax affecting businesses, families, that is, that affects all the national economic fabric. That's what the Socialist Party did. The Socialist Party convinced those who believed that it was possible to end austerity, that it was possible to have an irresponsible policy on the balance of public accounts and, of course, quickly realized that it was not a achievement or a dream. The truth is that this increase in ISP affects all companies. The government says: "Well, it must be acknowledged that there is a specific group of companies, transport companies, which deserve special attention." Let us, then, understand how the government intends to help this sector. I thought I could revisit the agreements made earlier, even by socialist governments, where a set of subjects and facts helped the sector, which is a sector with specific problems, but no, the government has not simplified but complicated, in a logic not of'simplex' but of 'complicatedx'. The government says: 'Well, there is a tax refund here'. I wonder if the most logical thing would not be to exempt this sector. It would be most logical at first, because otherwise we should start to ask what is for the government transport companies. Is it 12,000 t? That's 7500 t, how's it going? Or is it 2000 t, 5000 t? What is the criterion? Would it not be normal to let all companies certified for the purpose by the IMTT rather than being limited by introducing unfair competition in the sector? This is because, of course, all these companies are professionals, they all use professional gas oil, just as all families are. The next question is, where do you stand? It says the government : in four pilot projects. The question is: do these four pilot projects have the capacity to supply this sector, this level of companies? The information we have is that there is no. Are these posts, for example, fuel and AdBlue used by the sector? They don't seem to have any. There are even posts closed in many of these four border posts where the government says it will have the pilot project. How will the government do? Are you going to apply for the opening of posts? So it seems to me that, from a practical point of view, it will be difficult to implement this measure. Having regard to the fact that the Government has a legislative authorization in the State budget for this purpose — in accordance with the information I have been able to gather, but they will, if so, tell me, a legislative authorization to amend Article 172. I believe that it is more effective for the sector to have aid for fleet renewal, because it has, from the outset, gains in fuel consumption, CO2 emissions and its ability to compete with the other markets already using such products, than it does with a difficult enforcement measure, almost impossible to control and indeed introduce competition between regions of the country and between sectors. On the other hand, the Government could perhaps implement or improve the mechanism set up by the previous Government for this sector, which is the exemption of tolls at certain times or at certain tonnages. It is possible to extend and, where appropriate, exempt fully, provided that these exemptions have a reduced budgetary impact. In conclusion, I must say that the Government recognises that it is facing a problem and that it has a solution which is not itself effective because it is the Government itself that says, in the explanatory statement of the proposed law, that it is necessary to balance and provide conditions for the export capacity of Portuguese companies by levelling the tax practised in the rest of the European Union. This would have been the case if they had not made this brutal increase in taxes, which directly affects the export capacity of companies, the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy and families.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u112	The tax has increased, but the tax burden has dropped!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u113	The government has resolved to deceive the Portuguese and has resolved, Mr. João Galamba, not to say what you said: "Let's turn the page of austerity! Tax increases are over! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The truth is that Portuguese families and companies are faced with a brutal increase in taxes, without any value to the economy from there, as the data say. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u114	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am speaking on this matter to express some doubts, to raise some clarifications from the Government and to end with a warning on this subject. The doubts have to do with the pilot project which the Government is testing with the submission of this proposal by the beginning of 2017 and also with the limits on vehicles, in terms of global supplies, to benefit from this discount or the reimbursement by litre of fuel. As regards the pilot test issue, I do not obviously question the need to carry out tests on experiments that are announced to come into force from a given date in this case on 1 January 2017, because this will certainly provide valuable information for the government to be able to budget the revenue on oil products in the next State budget for 2017. In any event, Mr Secretary of State, having no more precise expectations of the value of the tax effect, of tax evasion, that the introduction of this refund measure may reveal, not having this expectation or not at least having this estimate reached—and that is why the pilot test does—it is strange that two of the main international road freight corridors, either north or south of the territory, which are the corridor of Valencia, on the one hand, and the corridor of Vila Real de Santo António on the other. So if we're talking about tests, we're going to leave a sort of hole, a gray area in this statistical evaluation. If these two corridors correspond to a significant portion of the vehicles that we want to test, we are possibly sending the statistical assessment because we are not sufficiently covering the representative sample of all vehicles we want to cover. I know that the Government has begun to mention that there were three test areas of this pilot project, now it goes to four and therefore my first question, Mr. Secretary of State, is whether the Government will not grant the possibility of this test to cover all major international road freight corridors. The second question I wanted to ask you has to do with the 30 000 litres limit to benefit from this discount. Mr Secretary of State, why is it 30 000 litres, when the bill itself has a value ranging from 25 000 to 40 000 litres? Why is the value of the 30,000 liters indicated in the test?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u116	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u117	I shall now conclude, Madam President. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, the principle of fiscal neutrality which is invoked in the Government's proposal, if that fiscal neutrality is applied and if it succeeds is more than fiscal neutrality is indeed a positive measure to combat the tax evasion process on the tax on petroleum products. Therefore, if that is the case, I believe that one of the justifications of this government is exactly that of tax evasion, and not necessarily that of just thinking about fiscal neutrality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u118	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP, over the years, has always stated with complete clarity the complaint, but also the answers and solutions to the serious problems resulting from the cost of fuel for the life of the economy, for the life of businesses, particularly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the living conditions of the population. The situation that has been felt on the ground in the productive sectors is extremely difficult, particularly as a result of the national disaster policies that have been carried out in recent years. For the CFP, we are faced with a problem that requires a comprehensive approach not only with regard to the territory concerned, but also with regard to the sectors concerned, from the outset, in the range of approaches and areas of intervention to respond to the real causes of the problem. Today, we are talking specifically about a government proposal aimed at the long-distance road freight sector—until we could say beyond Pireneus, considering the corridors in question—and we are assessing it as a step forward, a step forward to relieve the pressure that is borne by these companies and to respond to a concrete situation and that leads them to supply cars not in national territory, but in Spanish territory, given the price differential. And only by bad faith could anyone claim that the problem is now or is this year. But there are aspects that we cannot ignore. First, the issue of fuel costs is relevant for many economic sectors, even for those who cannot go to Spain. And we're not just talking about heavy vehicles, we're talking about heavy and light vehicles, we're talking about machines and equipment, we're talking about fishing boats. Secondly, the specific reality of the interior of the country and even of the raean areas is a concrete reality that justifies the continuation of this discussion and this work so that this regime can be extended in the territory in which it applies and not only remains for these four councils. It is a pilot project that is being dealt with and that is how we debate it. Thirdly, although the tax burden on fuels is an indisputable issue that the CFP has pointed out many years ago — including when the previous PSD/CDS-PP government has increased the tax burden, already with high prices — it should be stressed, however, that the cost problem goes far beyond that factor. There may be those who do not want to discuss the issue of prices before taxes, there may be those who do not want to discuss the millionaire profits of oil, but this discussion will have to be done sooner than later. Petrogal recorded EUR 310 million of profits in 2013, EUR 373 million in 2014 and EUR 639 million in 2015. Between 2014 and 2015, profits grew 71%. This is what happens as we debate the ISP's figures, which are intended to be reduced to a specific sector. in this framework and in the continuity of previous proposals, the CFP presented this afternoon in the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution proposing measures that contribute to the reduction of costs with fuels. This is to say: the creation of a system of maximum prices for liquid fuels, but also for gaseous fuels, which is best suited to the productivity levels of the national economy and the purchasing power of households vis-à-vis the euro area; the creation of a system of differentiated prices for sectors specific to the economy, such as agriculture, fisheries, taxis, small freight trucking, as well as the promotion of the installation of alternative fuel networks for petrol and diesel, including LPG, CNG and LNG. however, it should be noted that this issue is indissociable from a more general vision of a policy for energy, which requires the definition of a strategy, based on a national energy plan, which reduces energy consumption and deficit, with energy rational use programmes and energy efficiency increases, in transport, in buildings, in industry, and the diversification of energy sources, as part of the decline in the availability of fossil fuels. These are fundamental issues, structural issues which the country cannot ignore and which the CFP emphasises in this debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u120	The PSD Parliamentary Group still has time and Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has signed up to intervene. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u121	Mr President, in this second intervention, I would obviously like to reaffirm that for the PSD tax relief is quite positive. In fact, we have been against this worsening that the government is now trying to amend and we have been, in fact, that with the reform of the IRC in 2014 we have broken down taxes for companies. at the time, the PS agreed, but meanwhile changed his mind. However, despite the government's intention to defuse taxes, the truth is that this is a bad solution. from the PSD, of course we will give the government and the parties that support it to improve this proposal and find a more just, fairer, less discriminatory solution that does not run the risk of unconstitutionality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u122	To conclude this debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to stress that the essential in this proposal is obviously not the test. The test is only instrumental and will last a few months. The essential of this proposal is the creation of a structural measure in relation to the operation of road freight transport in Portugal and this structural measure is to create a regime similar to that in Spain or France, because even in these countries this transport has lower prices. In other words, what is detrimental to the competitiveness of Portuguese companies is not only the comparison between the basic prices of fuels in these countries, but the fact that we are comparing between, on the one hand, the carriers of goods to pay the basic price and, on the other hand, the carriers of goods to pay a lower price than the base price. This is basically the distortion of competition that harms our companies, that we must remove, for the sake of the transport industry and, apparently, against the will of the right, which I think is curious. Secondly, the test is done inside because that is where the fundamental premise of the measure is tested, which is that there may be a diversion of trade from Spain to Portugal, and those borders are the best to test it, as is evident. Why is that 30,000 liters? Mr President, with 30 000 litres and recorded vehicles, the estimate of gross tax expenditure for this measure is EUR 135 million, which is what we believe can be recovered from the trade diversion. The bill has wider limits, precisely so that it can be adjusted in the future. Finally, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to remember this: it is true that the posts inside are closed, but they have not been closed since February.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u124	That's the one! It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u125	In other words, for many years no fuel has been supplied, no transporter has supplied fuel in the interior, for many years this support measure to the freight and export industry industry was necessary and the truth is that it is the first time it is proposed here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u126	With no further inscriptions, the debate of Bill No. 23 / XIII ( 1 ) is thus concluded. ( a). We will continue with point 3, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 establishing the citizenship card and governing its issue and use, to the first amendment to Law No 37 / 2014 of 26 June 2014 establishing an alternative and voluntary system for the authentication of citizens at the portals and websites of the Public Administration called the Digital Mobile Key, and to the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 83 / 2000 of 11 May approving the legal regime for the granting and issuing of passports. In order to present this proposal for a law, Mrs President-in-Office of the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation has the palace.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill aims, in particular, to solve the problem created by Law No 91 / 2015, which amended Law No 7 / 2007, which caused constraints of a technological and security nature, compromising the issue of the vital citizenship card. The Government has taken advantage of the opportunity to propose to this House the introduction of other amendments which simplify procedures related to the application for renewal of the citizenship card, as well as the use of its authentication and electronic signature features. In addition, the Government has sought to draw the law so that it is easier to follow increasingly accelerated technological changes to make life easier for citizens and card issuers. The main technical solutions for the subject matter to be regulated by door were today shared with the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I would therefore like to highlight the following amendments in the proposed law. First, the Government intends to extend the validity period of the citizenship card to be fixed at the door. The period of validity will be extended to 10 years for citizens over 25 years of age, remaining within five years until that age. Secondly, it is expected that the citizen's card will be obtained from 20 days after birth, allowing the citizen to access the citizen's application service in continuous action to the birth register in a single counter. This amendment, which is an increasingly frequent practice, is especially relevant for the immediate registration of citizens in health services. Thirdly, the possibility of the citizen to sign a phone number or an e-mail address for issuing alerts and communications with the Public Administration is enshrined. Fourthly, the possibility of re-use of information is provided when requesting the citizenship card for the purpose of renewing other documents, such as passport and driving licence, where the citizen expressly authorizes and respects and protects personal data. Fifthly, the possibility of issuing a second route of PIN and PUK codes is established if the citizen loses or forgets his codes, avoiding a new request for citizenship card, as is currently the case. Sixthly, in order to prevent the reproduction of the citizenship card outside the cases provided for in the law, it is expected that its reproduction constitutes counter-ordination. Seventh, innovatively, the rules underlying the issue of the provisional citizenship card are laid down. Eighth place, it is proposed that the citizenship card be the only identification document for all national citizens from the beginning of 2017, without prejudice to the identity cards still valid and in circulation, and that it is of course possible to use the respective professional identification card in the performance of professional functions. It is also proposed to amend Law No 37 / 2014, which created the Mobile Digital Key, now providing it with another feature, a qualified electronic signature. Finally, the amendment to Decree-Law No 83/2000 is proposed to ensure that a citizen can at the same time request, in the event of loss, for example, the issue of the citizenship card and passport, which is not currently possible. Through the various changes proposed, we understand that the citizenship card remains a modern, integrated document capable of authenticating the citizen in multiple systems, in an updated and simple manner. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u128	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u129	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The year 2007 came to draw a new direction in the history of our civil identification, marking it indelibly. In place of the identity card, a new document was born, the citizen card, which was then defined by the Minister of State and Internal Administration, António Costa, as « an instrument of mobilization for the information society and for the modernization of the Public Administration ». Since 2007 more than 10 million citizens have been carrying this card. The card thus undoubtedly represents an added value in terms of multiple identification and, at the same time, an important tool for modernisation which aims not only to satisfy public interests but also to be private, which are found here. In 2015, Law No. 7 / 2007 was amended and, among other issues, the issue of a citizen card with validity of life for citizens who have completed 65 years was expected to be issued. There are now various technological, safety and regulatory constraints that prevent the issue of vital citizenship card. In conclusion, because of the inapplicability of the Act in force, the proposed law now submitted seeks to respond to the principles that contained Law No 91/2015: lower costs and less travel for citizens, not summarizing its applicability to the age of 65, but extending the advantages to all citizens. These objectives can be achieved through a set of changes to the characteristics and the procedure for issuing the citizenship card, where, as the Minister pointed out, the increase in the validity period, from 5 to 10 years old, from 25 years of age, will allow six renewals to be eliminated on average and will represent an economy of €90 per citizen. There is also, as a great novelty in this bill, the anticipation of obtaining the citizenship card, compulsory for all national citizens, from 20 days after birth, i.e., the citizen is born, a relevant measure inserted in Simplex +. With this initiative of the Government, it is also recommended that the procedures relating to the application for the issue and renewal of the card be simplified, the use of its authentication features and electronic signatures. The proposal under the court provides with great scope and opportunity the possibility of loyalty of a number of phones and / or an electronic address of each citizen, so that you can receive alerts, communications and notifications, making this communication procedure much faster and more effective. It is also possible to reuse the information provided to the Public Administration at the request of the citizen card, in order to renew other documents, such as driving license or passport, always protecting, of course, personal data. in this bill, there are also two express situations, which allow to request a new civil identification number, in cases of identity usurpation, forgery or use of other documents and in cases of change of sex. It should be pointed out that the use of identity is more conditional on the extension of the sanction scheme to the illicit reproduction of identification documents. There are also many and good friendly measures of the citizen, which decrease displacements and their inherent costs, such as that provided for the mobile card delivery service in case of justified travel difficulties. In addition to the existing mobile service of the request, which is planned, there is the possibility that citizens aged 65 may apply for renewal through the area of the citizen or the Internet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u130	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u131	I shall conclude, Madam President. Since this proposal deals with matters which affect the fundamental legal sphere of citizens and which is included in the protection of personal data, we are sure that, in the field of specialty, 1. the Commission shall remove the doubts raised and take account of the reservations and proposals contained in the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, produced on this bill. The merit of the solutions recommended in it and its future regulations justify continuing progress in simplification and respect for the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u132	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u133	I shall conclude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to conclude, Portugal, under the aegis of the PS and a vision of constant innovation and simplification, has known to be « what matters », revealing excellent good practices in this area and which have been internationally recognized. The constant challenge, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are confronted with is to incorporate innovation and quality into the state's DNA. The citizenship card remains thus the change that helps to change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u134	Before giving the floor to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, I wanted to leave an appeal here: we have a very long agenda, so I strongly asked on behalf of the Bureau for that. Members would not exceed the time contained in the electronic framework. For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u135	Madam President, I will try to scrupulously keep time. I would like to begin by congratulating the President, the Minister and the Members. Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin by registering, with regret, it is true, but without any surprise, the definitive and absolute impossibility of giving oneself the intention of creating a vital citizenship card. Although it is not, Mrs Minister, strictly unanimous the idea that it is not technically possible to give body to the vital citizen card—as you know, Mr Minister, there were those who argued that it was possible with other solutions— we always knew of the difficulties in this matter and we realized the argument of the fragility of the safety and the technique of the solution. So there is nothing else to be said about this for now. We will see, in the field of expertise, whether we can do anything else, but we understand, I repeat, the question. On the other hand, and already welcoming the solutions which lower barriers and simplify the lives of citizens and which, moreover, come on the path of what has already been presented in the Simplex and which now materialize in this bill, I must say to you, Mrs Minister, that until about an hour ago, almost two, was a bit perplexed by some defiance of this majority, but I realized that later they had a real shock and they tried to amend their hand. But, Mrs. Minister, they have amended badly. And I explain why. You have demultiplyed yourselves in advertisements in newspapers, conferences and interviews, propagating that now a law would only be approved if accompanied by regulatory portals. That's what they propagandized, which is written in several documents, and we can go see. Imagine, Mrs. Minister, my astonishment when I start reading the bill and I find myself, for more than 20 times, with referrals to ports that, if not, were not there. And I counted at least six: one of justice, one of administrative modernization with justice, another of administrative modernization, justice and finance with foreign affairs, with internal administration, finally a series of them. And, as Mrs Susana Amador said recently, it is true that there is a very sensitive matter and a matter that concerns personal data here, Mrs Minister. Therefore, it is not by dismissing that the processing of these personal data should be made known to the Members who have the mission to monitor all these things. So they say that from now on, all the laws will go out with the doors and, after all, when the law comes here, there wouldn't be any, that's not serious. And at 25. the hour tried to change the hand and sent us an e-mail, about 15 hours and 30 minutes, saying that it was not possible for the government to present the portals, but that they still gave us knowledge of the technical solutions that they would contain. Mrs. Minister, let's see if we understand: instead of sending the doors, do you send us an explanation of what the door is going to be? Oh, my God! This doesn't make sense. Why didn't they send the doors one time? This frankly doesn't pick and make no sense. I don't think it's all worth everything in these things. And blatantly lacking the promises and "throwing sand for the eyes" of people is an exercise that is not worthy of a government that is wanted to be respected. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, they admit at least that they cannot fulfill what they have promised. Go say and advertise less, Mrs. Minister, and do more and better. To speak a lot is very good and it is good to advertise a lot, but to do a lot less than what they say begins to leave people indisposed, and it was much more useful for the Portuguese to do things as they say and not say things that they do then not do. Moreover, to conclude, I am glad that the validity of the citizenship card for 10 years is being fulfilled, which was also referred to a door office and we did not know if it was actually 10 years old.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u136	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u137	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Let us hope, at least, that it will be possible to maintain. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u138	I am calling again for restraint in the interventions and the fulfillment of the times. Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u139	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I am not going to scold you, Mrs Minister, with more cometaries of a formal nature, until, out of sympathy, I would forward the criticism to Mr. Secretary of State, who is closer to us, and criticize someone who is to him.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u140	I can't stand the criticism!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u141	Mr. Minister, "his own owner". This theme was first identified and generously resolved by this House, on the initiative of the PCP, in the time when the PCP was a party to the opposition, and it was here decided by all to find a solution to make the citizenship card equal to the old vital identity card. It is that what we are discussing today, Mrs Minister — and I therefore praise your presence — is something that will touch the lives of all Portuguese people, more than the National Health Service and more than the IRS. what we're talking about here will touch everyone's life, at least those who reach 20 days of age. So it seems important. In fact, when technical difficulties have been identified, which we admit may exist, to issue a vital citizenship card, from the outset because it is impossible to maintain, perhaps, a chip for 30 years, the question of renewal is raised and the question of cost also arises. In February this year, it was also deliberate here, by means of a resolution, to ask the Government to urgently resolve this matter and, in hearing, the Minister told us that she was studying the issue not only from the point of view of the technical solution, which we admitted would be 10 years old, which is not extraordinary, at least equal to other countries, but also the cost. Therefore, since we still don't have the cost and admit that the six months was to analyze the cost, since the solution is to reprisal the norm, they didn't need six months, it was only six days. Now, in order to be able to look at this matter in the field of expertise, I would ask the Minister to bring us to what is the impact of the possible free renewal of the card, which would also be an advantage. In addition, the Government is also making use of some amendments, including through the Digital Mobile Key. And the solutions that leave us are curious, interesting and strange. For example, the possibility of a citizen, through his telephone or e-mail contact, to have access that he recognizes as valid with public bodies, seems interesting to us. We also find it interesting that a citizen can, with only one information, give account to all public bodies of his data, avoiding redundancy and repetition, which is not justified. It seems interesting to us! But we have some difficulty in understanding why, suddenly, the deadline for changing the address goes from 30 to 15 days — it certainly is not a question of counter-ordination! We also have some perplexity—we will certainly notice this later—in relation to the technical note arrived today at 17 hours. When it came to my hand, it was still hot from the photocopier. I confess I didn't read it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u142	That's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u143	It's not your fault, but it's not mine either, Mrs. Minister. A last question that has been raised concerns the possibility of a 16-year-old being able to digitally sign documents when it relates to the Public Administration. Question : If a minor is a minor and, by this way, does he not have his full civilian capacity, will he acquire it by this way? Why when you were 16? Where did this solution come from? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u145	Mr President, Mrs Minister, other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members: The draft law which the Government submits, although motivated by the resolution of that practical impossibility of issuing the vital citizen card, introduces several amendments that aim to develop the potentialities of the citizen card and which have a very significant impact on the lives of citizens and citizens and on their relationship with the State and the Public Administration. We recognize the merit and welcome the effort of some proposed amendments, but we also consider that the scope and, above all, the involvement of some of these amendments deserve a thorough discussion, so we hope, in the field of expertise, that we can give rise to this discussion and clarify the doubts we have regarding some of these amendments, since the time we have available for the discussion in general does not allow us to detail these issues. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the doubts we have. We are concerned — and it has already been said — this resource, which is quite present in the various articles of the bill, to regulation by door, which does not allow us to understand exactly how these changes will be developed and implemented. The technical note that has been distributed to us already gives some of these information. One of the doubts we had was the question of the validity of the citizenship card. We considered that the 10-year period of validity — and that had already been mentioned in 1. the Commission — is an advantage over the five-year validity period which currently exists. however, we have a few more doubts about other situations, particularly with regard to the processing and transmission of personal data, which needs to be examined in greater detail. This idea of Nascer Ciudadão seems quite good to us, but we are concerned about its operationalization, in particular the fact that 20-day-olds have to go to the services to remove fingerprints and photographs, when biometric data in 20-day-borns are not yet stabilized and, in fact, suddenly change, almost every day, particularly the color of the eyes, height and even facial characteristics. Finally, and I shall conclude by now, I would like to clarify to us the reduction of the deadline from 30 to 15 days for the change of address. at a time when people are in a phase of change of life by a series of administrative and logistical procedures, it seems to us that 15 days is too short a deadline. We find no justification in this proposal for this amendment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u146	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u147	Mr President, Mrs Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The Minister, a few days ago in this House, when she presented the Simplex, gave the example of her mother who was 94 years old and received an absolutely indecipherable notification from the Public Administration. Mrs. Minister today, I take the example of my mother: she is 88 years old and has vital identity card. If I had the citizenship card and if I had to renew, I would be absolutely incapable of doing so for physical and sensory reasons. Therefore, this bill does not come to the meeting, but on the contrary, of what is announced by the Simplex. In other words, citizens who, because of their advanced age, because of their disability due to age or for any health reason, have no practical possibility of renewing the citizenship card have a problem. I must admit that we have difficulty in understanding that there is an absolute technical inability to solve this problem, when, for example, in Spain, there is a vital citizen card.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u148	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u149	They have given us very relevant technical explanations related to various aspects, but I must confess that this leaves us a feeling of some frustration. What the hell, is it impossible to find a technical solution? Oh, my God! With regard to a centenary or non-agenary citizen who, in fact, has dementia or health problems that prevent him from signing, or moving, to renew the citizenship card, is there not a solution on the part of the Portuguese State that allows that, when there is no change in data, the data are exactly the same, it is informally the Portuguese Public Administration to enable that citizen to renew the citizenship card? Oh, my God! We do not understand that there cannot be a solution to this problem. The Minister says « well, the law passed at the end of the past legislature, which intended to create a vital character of the citizenship card for citizens from a certain age, came to create a problem», but the Minister brings us here a proposal for a law that will go very far beyond that. If that was the problem, it was very well known, because then it also allowed the government to be able to solve other problems which had not been foreseen before. from our point of view, it is important that the problems that the government is trying to solve with this bill, making it easier for the citizens to live, be discussed very well, let us go ahead. It causes us, however, a certain frustration that the Portuguese State does not find a solution that ensures that, from a certain age, citizens can have a card in which they do not have to take the initiative of renewing and that this can be done informally, if there is no change in data. I end with an issue for which the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) is well aware in the opinion that this House has authorized, and that it has to do with the regulation, by port, of a set of aspects related to sensitive data and that are under legal and constitutional protection. It is because we are at risk that, by referring so many matters sensitive to the door, we are in danger of a delegalisation of dubious constitutionality in relation to these matters. We understand that this opinion of the CNPD should be seen with great attention in the speciality debate that we are going to do, because in fact, we may be in danger not only of solutions that protect citizens from fundamental guarantees, but also of solutions of dubious constitutionality. So there are two aspects I mentioned in the intervention and we believe that they should still be very well thought out in the specialty debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u150	The Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization received one minute from Mr André Silva, from the NAP, thus joining him while he is still available to use the word. You have the floor, Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am grateful for the suggestions they have made, which, of course, will deserve our reflection. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, as resulted from this discussion and became evident, the commitment of the government is that the ports become public at the same time as the law becomes applicable. at this moment, what is under discussion is a bill that can be amended by this House. Of course, I could have sent the doors, but they would be no more than proposals to carry, which could eventually or would not have been altered if the Members. Members decided to integrate some matters into the law, as it had just resulted from the CFP intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I assure you, Mrs Deputy, that on the day following the publication of the law, you will be ready for publication in the Journal of the Republic. Therefore, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva's intervention makes no sense. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Vania Dias da Silva.]] I would also like to say that this bill has sought to simplify the structure of the law more easily, with advantages for the citizens, we can introduce amendments. And making the changes today is much faster than when the identity card was created in 1914. But, of course, it is in the interest of the government, and certainly of the Members. Members, to ensure the protection of personal data and, at the same time, to see the other point of view which is also beneficial for citizens, which is that they do not need to repeatedly provide the same information to various services. You have to go there to change your address in the driving license and then you have to go there to change your address in the citizen's card. Mr António Filipe, of course, that in relation to situations such as his mother or mine, or other citizens who are in these circumstances and much more unprotected than our mothers, the services of the Ministry of Justice are available to go to the citizen's house or to the place where he is, not only to deal with the renewal of the citizenship card, but also to deliver it to him without having to travel. We can also technically fine-tune this service for these situations which, unfortunately, will become more and more frequent, but this concern is being cared for in this way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u152	Mrs. Members, as the Bureau no longer registers on this agenda item, we will move on to the next item, which is the general discussion of Bill No 24 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August which approves the special scheme applicable to deferred tax assets. To introduce this initiative, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2014, a special scheme was approved for deferred tax assets, usually designated by the English-language DTA. Although of general application and similar to what happened in Spain or Italy, this scheme was directed, above all, to the banking sector. Due to the Basel III designated accounting rules, banks could only account as own funds for deferred tax assets in which there was almost full guarantee of their use. In order to address the serious problem that would be created in the capital ratios of banks, a scheme was created which, under certain conditions, allowed the direct conversion of these DTAs into reimbursable tax credits. This tax regime, in addition to creating a risk of future budgetary impacts, has always been surrounded by doubts as to its compliance with the European State aid scheme. The legislative amendment proposed by the Government at this time prevents the application of this scheme to new DTAs established from 1 January 2016 and thus prevents the conversion of these into reimbursable tax credits. In order to preserve the already established situations, however, it is ensured that the regime in force is maintained in respect of the eligible deferred tax assets already recognised in the financial statements of the entities which have acceded to this special scheme. Thus, and in particular in the case of banking institutions, these assets will continue to be eligible for the purposes of calculating own funds ratios for prudential purposes. In addition, it is required that taxable persons provide additional information on deferred tax assets in the tax documentation process. This amendment aims to facilitate the control of deferred tax assets eligible by the Tax Authority. It is the Government's conviction that the proposed scheme is a balanced solution, which prevents the creation of new risks for public accounts and preserves the situations on the part of the undertakings concerned, and the Government is confident that this solution will prevent obstacles in competition law from being lifted to the current situation by the end of last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u154	For an intervention, Mr Ricardo Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are before a bill, as has been said here, amending Law No 61 / 2014. A special scheme which allowed the free accession not only of the banking sector but also of any commercial society and public enterprise, essentially of the banks, due to the new accounting rules, namely Basel III, which, if not met, would mean a serious problem in the capital ratios of the banks. It should therefore be said that deferred taxes originate mainly in the differences between the accounting result and the result achieved, in accordance with the tax rules resulting from the differences between tax and accounting standards. If there were no differences between tax and accounting rules there would be no deferred taxes. This amendment defined the scope of this scheme by the termination of the creation of new assets by deferred taxes after 1 January 2016. Therefore, the PS congratulates the Government on this proposed amendment and considers that this bill is a timely and balanced solution because, on the one hand, it better clarifys and meets the European directives on-line with the other Member States which have acceded to this regime and, on the other hand, it can also preserve the existing legal regime, insofar as it guarantees this type of assets, duly recognised by 2015, including by not negatively influencing capital ratios, particularly the banking sector. It is also important to highlight in this amendment the need to ensure control of deferred tax assets eligible with additional measures insofar as it facilitates the operation of the Tax Authority. The PS once again congratulates the Government on the amendment and on this initiative. however, this is a matter of great complexity, I would like to say that there are a number of questions and observations that need to be put into the body of expertise, listening to a number of competent entities, in particular the balance sheet they make on the current regime and the impact this amendment will also bring. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u156	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of 2013, the former PSD / CDS Government carried out an IRC reform that would in particular allow tax damages to be deducted from profits over the next 12 years. This amendment made it possible for large economic and financial groups to significantly reduce taxes to be paid. As if this were not enough, a few months later, the same PSD/CDS government itself advanced with a bill that created a special scheme of deferred tax assets, which, coupled with the increase in the period to report losses, was translated into the scandalous favour of the bank. Indeed, in accordance with the Basel III rules, the banks were obliged to deduct these taxes to their own capital in order to benefit from the deferral of taxes by reducing the amount to be paid in the future. With the legislative initiative of the former Government, banks ceased to have that obligation, moving the State to assume as its debt the tax credit that banks held in their assets. thus, banks could improve their capital ratios, without shareholders having to disburse a cent. The tax expenditure that the State took with more this benefit to the bank, and to the bankers, was accounted for in order to achieve the budget deficit, implying, in the context of the policy carried out by the previous government, more austerity for the workers and the people. Of course, the CFP opposed this option of the former PSD/CDS government to sacrifice those who live from their work to further promote the big capital. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the legislative elections last October, the Portuguese unequivocally condemned the policy of exploitation and impoverishment carried out by the previous PSD/CDS government and demanded a change. The new composition of the Assembly of the Republic has allowed to reverse, even if limited, some measures of favouring the large capital, implemented by the previous Government. With the contribution and commitment of the CFP, the State budget for 2016 reduced for large companies and economic groups the period of loss reporting from 12 to 5 years, thus limiting the possibilities of aggressive tax planning and flight to the payment of taxes due by these companies and economic groups. The Government's legislative initiative, currently under discussion, aims to establish that the special system of deferred tax assets, established by the previous Government, ceases to apply in taxation periods which begin after January 2016. In addition, as regards deferred tax assets relating to previous taxation periods, the bill strengthens its control by requiring additional information. These are positive changes that we naturally value. However, other and more ambitious steps must be taken in order to break with the support of the large economic and financial groups, ensuring that they pay the taxes due. That is the way to a fairer and more appropriate fiscal policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u158	Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The bill we are discussing today aims to revise the scheme of deferred tax assets, which, it is good to remember, was originally born of the need to build a solution to avoid regulatory changes that made tax credits, in terms of which they were previously defined, no longer considered as capital. And by way of this, if perhaps no measure had been taken in 2014, in addition to what happened in Spain, Italy and Greece, we might have had a more fragile economic and social fabric, lower credit concession and consequently greater fragility, not only in companies as well as in the banking system. [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] in the background, what was found was a balanced and sensible position that sought to rebalance the comparative disadvantage that Portugal faced. And therefore, in most cases, these differences resulted from the fact that prudential accounting and tax regimes were widely distinct, so this purpose served to achieve two fundamental objectives: on the one hand, progress towards strengthening the robustness of companies, not damaging their solvency and capital ratios, and on the other, so that these measures and this transition were achieved without being abruptly, which could have aggravated the situation of the financial system in view of the vulnerability we all know. This was obviously an important aspect, and I therefore believe that this debate is a balanced debate, in order to also comply with the rules imposed by DGComp and the necessary transitoryness of this regime, leading us to a path that should not merit, on our part, censorship. In addition to what was decided at that time, it is also important to ask the Secretary of State, who still has time available, about the working group that has been created in a timely manner. This working group, as it is recalled, had the participation of the Tax Authority and Banco de Portugal and aimed, in substance, at the convergence of the tax and prudential regime, in order to resolve the problem definitively. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u160	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crisis required extraordinary measures, it was indeed the state of exception, the permanent state of shock, the excuse for all the measures which, often, would not be accepted in any other way, because they were in fact socially unjust. The ironic thing is that while the incomes that supported demand were cut, which supported the companies, which supported the value of bank assets, tax measures were approved to benefit large companies and banks from the adverse effects that cuts in people's income had caused. And here, too, is the cause of the crisis, austerity and the unjust form as applied cuts of income that have harmed people's lives, but that have also harmed the economy. But then, even in the extraordinary measures to solve this root problem, injustice increased, because, in the name of this crisis, which was itself caused by austerity, there came a downturn of IRC which, we know, on the one hand, was unfair, because at the same time it was increasing the IRS, and on the other, it only affected large companies, because small businesses do not pay IRC for having no profit or then pay a reduced rate of IRC. It was on behalf of this crisis caused by austerity that the period of loss reporting increased, that exemptions were increased in social participations, that promote tax planning and that everything was allowed. The scheme of deferred tax assets is another measure which is included in these measures of tax injustice, because it benefits far more from large companies and, above all, from banks, at the same time as the family income and the lives of people are penalized. Basically, what this scheme defined is that banks and companies could create claims on the State through the accumulation of losses that would be deducted from future taxes. It is, in practice, a banter to the banks. It is as scandalous as BES goes to bankruptcy, the resolution of BES causes enormous damage and then these losses are transferred to the New Bank in the form of an asset, which is no more than a claim on the State due to the damage caused by the BES resolution. And the same happened in BANIF, when Santander, in addition to having received to stay with BANIF, still had credits on the State resulting from past losses of BANIF. They're bubbles to the banking system! They are aid to the banking system, which accounted for about 8000 million in the middle of last year. The banks accounted for nearly 8000 million state credits in the middle of last year. They are other forms of State aid. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can only follow the limitation of this regime. The crisis cannot, or the permanent crisis, be the permanent states of exception, no longer excuse unfair measures that exacerbate the inequality of income, whether between people or between work and capital, which, if we are to see well, are in fact the real cause of the crisis and not its consequence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u162	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The ideological way in which some parliamentary groups have addressed this issue shows well that this is essentially a technical issue and that, of course, is made with a serious speech on the technical subject which is at issue or an ideological narrative is invented so as not to debate anything that is at stake here. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] We are discussing a matter that has its origin in two very simple things: one, in the difference between what is the accounting of certain assets, in accounting and tax terms, in differences in registration and differences in time and, the other, in the solution of each other and in the effects that this has on balance sheets.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u164	Isn't that political? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u165	On the other hand, regulatory changes, including Basel III, had a direct impact on what national companies were and, in particular, on banking companies. What was not said in the ideological narrative of the PCP and the Left Block was that if it had not been done in 2014, other countries, other companies and other financial institutions in Spain, Italy and Greece could be subject to the same regulatory rules that Portugal was subject to, but with national rules that obviously introduced unfair competition, because they were much more favourable to these institutions, and which therefore adversely affected, in comparison, the national institutions that competed with them in the open market. I know that the ideological problem here is not to perceive the existence of an open market and how things are going on in the open market. But when there is an open market and there is competition, if there are countries that make certain schemes to favour their businesses, of course we cannot ignore them and we cannot stop following that path. After this time, there is a question that needs to be examined: both Portugal and the other countries that have taken similar measures have been the target of proceedings by the Directorate-General for Competition, in order to ascertain whether this matter was considered unlawful State aid. The question to be considered here is this: if there is no technical question that this legislative answer solves this problem, then the question that can be raised is an important political issue of competition with other States. Thus, the Government is responsible for realizing and deciding whether what Portugal is doing at the moment is something that puts the risk of competition with other countries with more favourable regimes at risk or not, and therefore whether or not it will harm sectors that will be subject to a different rule as compared to the same sectors in other countries, and whether the other countries make the same interpretation and evolution as we do. on the part of the CDS, there is the benefit of doubt, we consider that evolution makes sense, but we cannot fail to express here this reservation, which is a protection reserve of what is the national economic fabric, in that we are not being more papist than the Pope, we are not being more Europeanist than the other countries that compete with us and thus are not harming essential sectors of our economy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u166	You have the floor for one speech, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u167	Mr President, I am speaking only to clarify the question put by Mr João Pinho de Almeida. I am aware that, as much as the Government has information, the other countries that had approved such regimes before us have also finished them. Therefore, Portugal is truly the last country to have a legal regime in these terms, which is why it further advises that this regime should also be terminated in Portugal in accordance with its proposed terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u168	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not register any more entries on this item on the agenda, I would like to finish by thanking the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs for his presence. Therefore, we will initiate the discussion of the 2014 General State Account. For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what brings us here today is the discussion of the 2014 State General Account. Of course, the assessment of the General State Account, which is done annually in this House, is an integral and fundamental part of the exercise of political supervision to which governments, democratically, must be subject. in fact, it is with the appreciation of the General State Account that you are. Members may judge the Government's compliance with its budgetary objectives and the consequences of the budgetary policies adopted here in Parliament. Now, as we know, we are today appreciating the General State Account for the year 2014, which is not duly responsible for the current government, because it is not up to us to implement the 2014 Budget, nor so little to draw up the respective Account. Thus the discussion that will take place today takes place with the presence of the government bench which cannot, by the nature of things, be assessed by the assessment of the 2014 State General Account. Still, there are lessons that can be withdrawn from the 2014 General Account and can be taken advantage of in future years of preparing the Account, in particular the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors in its opinion to the General Account of the State. We would not have time to review here each of the 95 recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, however, as has already been stated by the Minister of Finance, in his hearing at COFMA ( Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization ), there is a commitment by the Government to follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, insofar as they will contribute to the improvement of the account included in the account. Moreover, some of the recommendations are already being considered in practice by the current government and have even been taken into account in the preparation of the State budget for 2016. For example, as regards the accounting of revenue, the State budget for 2016 seeks to respond to the repairs made by the Court of Auditors, with regard to the registration of contributions from the road service and the contribution to the audiovisual sector. In addition, all the work to be carried out with a view to improving the fairness of budgetary information, which must be linked to the implementation of the new system, the SNC-AP, as well as the implementation of the Budget Framework Act, will respond to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on the need to improve the quality of the State General Account. In conclusion, although the analysis of the General State Account, which is now being carried out, does not serve the purpose of evaluating the current government in office, the recommendations made as well as the discussion to follow will certainly be taken into account in the future in the preparation of the General State Account. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u170	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussions of the accounts are always something peculiar and characteristic, because the truth is, when we discuss the Account, many of the discussions about what was fundamental and about the Budget that was underlying it are already being made. And this 2014 Account is no exception, it is true that the government that is responsible for the Account today is not the government that presented the Budget for the year 2014. Well, but that always happens, or almost always has happened, in government transitions. In fact, if we think about the year 2014 and what the Account 2014 mirrors, it is true that this was also a particularly remarkable year, because it was the year when the troika left Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u172	And if it is true that there was a government that had not called the troika, it is also true that he inherited it, along with the Portuguese, unfortunately, and went to free Portugal from the troika and this invasion of our sovereignty. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u173	I am glad that this phase is beyond and certainly on the side of this bench and, I want to believe, of all things, we will do everything so that Portugal will not go through that again. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u174	Second, 2014 was also marked by another event. Despite some voices that then spoke and predicted recessive spirals and recessions that would not end and deepen, the truth is that 2014 was indeed the first year marked by real GDP growth, in line with euro area growth and overall forecasts. I believe that this last assertion—which is not mine—is UTAO’s—of the growth in line with the euro area and with the overall forecast is still good news for then 2014 and I can only hope that in 2016 we can also finish the year by saying that we had a growth in line with the euro area and with the forecasts. It is unfortunate that the numbers we already know are precisely the opposite, that we differ with the euro area and that we differ from the government's optimistic positions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u175	Let us hope that the 2016 State General Account, when presented, may also have these lines. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u176	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today's debate on the 2014 General State Account is an opportunity, which we will not waste, to remember what the PSD and the CDS are trying, in any case, to make us forget: the evils carried out by the previous government. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] The CDS has already made its intervention and has forgotten to mention these evils. So let us remember, then, that in 2014 PSD and CDS tried to apply definitive cuts in retirement, retirement, disability and survival pensions,... [[PCP applause.]] ... just as they tried to aggravate wage cuts to public administration workers, raising them to 12 %, meaning that only they could not carry out because they were opposed by the struggle of workers and by decisions of the Constitutional Court. Now, PSD and CDS even schedule debates on active ageing and the sustainability of social security and present in these debates dozens of legislative initiatives to put the idea that they are very concerned about the reformed, but the truth is that, when they were in government, they inferned life to the reformed. But PSD and CDS, in 2014, did not fall by cuts in wages and reforms, attacked the social functions of the State in health, education and social protection, pursuing a policy of degradation of these functions, trying to transform everyone's rights in the business of some, reduced taxes on large companies and economic groups, through the reform of the IRC, while maintaining the brutal tax draw on labour income, continued the destruction of the state's business sector, through privatizations, selling to the open strategic public enterprises for national development. This policy for the liquidation of labour and social rights, for the confiscation of workers' incomes and reformed, for the impoverishment of broad layers of the population and for the abdication of national sovereignty, has always been justified by the PSD and the CDS with the need for consolidation of public accounts. But the truth is that in 2014 public debt continued to grow, reaching the historical peak of 130, 2 %, and the budget deficit was set at 7, 2 %, above the 2012 and 2013 deficit. It is evidence that the consolidation of the public accounts with which the previous PSD/CDS Government filled its mouth was not a pretext — a mere pretext — to impose a policy of exploitation and impoverishment, implementing an old dream on the right to settle accounts with 25 April and to destroy its important achievements at the economic, social and cultural level. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the legislative elections of 4 October, the Portuguese unequivocally rejected the policies imposed by PSD and CDS and expressed their desire for change. Since then, with the committed contribution of the CFP, several measures have been adopted that respond to the most urgent problems of workers and the people in relation to labour and social rights, incomes and the realization of the rights to health, education and social protection. It is this way of replacing rights and income that we must continue so that the Portuguese can look to the future with hope. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u178	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The 2014 State General Account reveals the failure to meet the goals proposed by the previous Government, the budgetary goals of this financial year and the goals of the legislature, in the context of the ambition to go beyond the troika. More important targets, such as deficit targets, were much higher than that, in addition to being reviewed twice, debt increased far beyond expected, as it was at the end of 2009 in 17 percentage points of GDP above the 2011 value. The stability of the financial system was another priority ambition, but the news that came to the public however gives good evidence how far we are going to achieve this goal. The failure of the targets is the failure of austerity policy to solve the country's problems, which only aggravated the problems and added new ones, such as poverty, emigration, unemployment and precariousness. The insistence in this direction, in this policy, is understood only by an ideological obsession of those who, with a hidden agenda, intend to extend the gap of social inequalities, concentrate wealth and power on a small elite and condemn the majority of the population to independence. Concentrating power is limiting the field of choices and reducing the scope of democracy, and these are ideological options. It was an ideological agenda that produced these choices, not technical questions, as you want to sell. Even such an unsuspecting entity as the Public Finance Council came to consider that what was done does not respond to the intended objective, the balance of the public accounts, which was done did not go beyond cross-cutting, blind, hasty and without obeying a strategy, a makeup without lasting effects. This makeup went through the troupe to present to the Portuguese measures as temporary when, in Brussels, they were assured that they were permanent measures, through the use of extraordinary measures, by the anticipation of revenue, as was the case with the bank's contribution to the Resolution Fund, which was collected in 2015 when it was due in 2016, which benefited the 2015 budget implementation and affected that of the current year, or went through the trade in hiding « under the carpet » the Banif case. Public servants and pensions were the scrapper of the former government, who cut the income in education, health and social security, but when certain customers were involved, there was generosity. For example, PPPs (public-private), both road and health, were saved to cuts and in education new PPPs arose, new private incomes, with association contracts with colleges in places where there was no manifest need. And the rationality of these measures was once again to concentrate wealth, transfer incomes from those who work so that it does not, dismantle the state and public services. The evidence of this makeup jumps into view with the recent news that came to the public, such as the deviation of ADSE's funds to pay state expenses, money resulting from the discounts in employees' salaries, which is theirs, to pay expenses that nothing has to do with the purpose for employees to discount. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u180	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Mr Secretary of State, we respect the judgment of the Court of Auditors in relation to the Account, but we want a political judgment here in the House. I was looking forward to seeing what the Minister of Finance we would have today speaking on the General State Account and, after all, we do not have Mr Minister, we have Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u182	It's...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u183	This is because, if Mr Minister, we would have two hypotheses: or we would have Mr Minister abroad asking for time for the reforms of recent years to materialise, or we would have Mr Minister, who is available to remain in the shadow of the Prime Minister and the Socialist, Blocist and Communist coalition, to witness the destruction of these same reforms. It remains to be known which option they take.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u184	Choose you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u185	That is, if, definitely, the Ministry of Finance attends the optimistic speech of Mr. Prime Minister — irritantly optimistic — or if from now on, further forward, if things go wrong, we have the speech of late apology.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u186	Speak from the 2014 Account! You're running out of time and you don't say anything! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u187	at the hearing in the Commission, Mr Minister was contradictory.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u188	Which one?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u189	On the one hand, he acknowledged, quoting Mr Minister, that «the economy has entered into recovery», but on the other hand he said that it was not in accordance with what the government had foreseen. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : To speak of the 2014 State General Account, and also of 2015, in logical sequence, is to talk about results. [[PS protests.]] [[Tell me about the cuts of pensions you wanted to make!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u190	Here we go, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! To talk about the Account is to talk about positive results and results,... [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u191	... of convergence with the euro area. The accounts hit certain...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u192	You sure as hell didn't hit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u193	... in the performance of the economy and in the consolidation of the budget. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u194	Mr Paulino Ascension, just look at a simple sheet of the 2014 State Budget Report, October 2013. It is on page 18 of this Report that for GDP the forecast was 0, 8 % and it was 0, 9 %, that for investment the forecast was 1, 2 % and the result was 2, 5 %, that for employment the forecast was (- ) 0, 4 % and the result was 1, 6 %, that for unemployment the forecast was 17, 7 % and the result was 13, 9 %,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u195	... that, for the net financing capacity of the Portuguese economy, the forecast was 1, 9 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u196	Speak up about the cuts! Spend the time and don't talk about cuts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u197	Mr. Deputies, who accuses us of an ideological agenda, see what he compared! You were concerned about the deficit and the debt. Now, coming from your bench, the deficit and the debt — something that is awful! — that is what we did not do, and that is what you accuse us of! Is not employment, unemployment, wealth creation important to you? Oh, my God! After all, those are the bad data, Mr. Member? Oh, my God! You accuse us of an ideological agenda and, after all, the ideology you use is the one you accuse us of! Mrs. Members, now, despite the sacrifices and efforts of the Portuguese in the last five years, the results are in view in 2014 and 2015... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u198	Yeah, they are! It's the risk of sanctions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u199	Mr. João Galamba, do you know what is the best example? It's just that since yesterday, we've had the troika here for the fourth post-troika evaluation. Mr. Deputies, there are four post-troika evaluations and there were 12 more in the Troika period. Do you know what that's about? of your government! All these visits of the troika are the result of your governance, of previous governments and of this now. The result of your governments is 12 plus 4 ; 16 visits from the troika is the brilliant result of the last time they were in the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u200	On behalf of the PS, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Perhaps it should start with a pedagogical note, let us say that by a paradoxical analysis of the PSD, by the voice of Mr Cristóvão Crespo, who considers that the economy is marketable, and on the other hand that the economic results are all of the responsibility of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u202	No, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u203	Mr President, in a market economy, the economic results are, first and foremost, the consequence of consumers, in their consumer and saving decisions, in companies, in investment and export decisions, and then we have the government that can help or make the economy difficult. And in this context, in fact, the government has not helped much. It is worth remembering that the former PSD/CDS Government had a clear economic agenda, which was as follows: I wanted to do austerity which I thought would be an expansionist and wanted to make economic growth solely based on external demand, especially in exports. And the reorientation of economic policy, operated in paragraph 2. the semester of 2013 and in 2014 was a consequence of the decisions of the Constitutional Court — it is good to remember this! I repeat: it was a consequence of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u204	How can you say that?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u205	They were forced into a different economic policy than they wanted. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u206	In 2014 we did not have a State Budget, we had three: we had the initial, we had the first correction, in March, and we had the second rectification, in September. We have already been reminded — and I thank Mr. Paulo Sá for doing so — the unbelievable measures put in the State budget for 2014, which have been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u207	If they have been declared unconstitutional, they have not been applied!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u208	...and then I shall turn to the opinion that the Court of Auditors has objectively made about the General Account of the State. Don't mess with everything, but I'm gonna talk about half a dozen things here. What the Court of Auditors said was as follows: in relation to the central administration, non-application of the POCP (Official Public Accounting Plan) as a whole; omission of taxes on the revenue of the State; under-evaluation of tax expenditure; lack of information on the stock of the debt; not mention of the Resolution Fund. On the failure to mention the Resolution Fund, Mr President. Members say they didn't put it in the General State Account because you didn't know whether or not you were going to the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u209	No, it's not "you didn't know"!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u210	But you already knew exactly what would happen to the Resolution Fund: either the New Bank was sold by mid-2015, or would go, as it was, to deficit and debt. Therefore, the minimum amount of intellectual honesty would require a section in the General State Account to say: « Well, we don't know if this goes to the deficit or not, but...». But none of that is said! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u211	On social security, what the Court of Auditors says is that the Account does not allow a true, appropriate picture of the economic, financial and heritage situation of social security. In conclusion, I would say that this General State Account has a financial engineering that needs to be explained. There is a way to pretend that public debt does not increase so much. And how do you do it? By making the Social Security Stabilisation Fund buy more public debt. And the data is just this : in 2014, the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, which had 5300 million debt in portfolios, became 8 billion euro in portfolio debt. In other words, if the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund had not changed its portfolio and purchased public debt, the public debt would have increased not what increased, which was 1, 2 % but 2, 7 %. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u212	Oh, my lord! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u213	Therefore, this is a lack of transparency in the General State Account, greater rigor is required and I am pleased to have listened to Mr. Secretary of State John Leon. In conclusion, I will say that the PS will not vote in favour of this General State Account, and it does not go because it has information gaps, lacks transparency, financial engineering and this does not contribute to the honorability of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u214	Mrs. Members, the discussion of the proposal for law No 24 / XIII ( 1. ( a), we say goodbye to Mrs. State Secretaries, and we move on to the next item on the agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 111 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Inclusion of a vegetarian option in all public canteens ( PAN), 265 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the inclusion of the vegetarian option in meals in public canteens ( BE) and 268 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Vegetarian plant in the public canteens ( The Greens ). For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we bring to the debate the proposal that all public can provide a healthy, sustainable and accessible food option for all Portuguese. This is an inclusive initiative not only for thousands of citizens who have increasingly opted for vegetarian diets but also for all those who seek healthy food alternatives. I begin by expressing my gratitude to those who have defended and worked for this possibility, namely the Portuguese Vegetarian Association, as well as the 15 000 subscribers of the petition that has entered the Assembly of the Republic on this subject and to all those who over the years have contributed to a constructive dialogue. The impact that food has on our health is inevitable and this is why this initiative already represents a strong investment. The Directorate-General of Health itself recognizes the benefits of food based on products of plant origin, also recognizing that this food option contributes to the protection of human health. In addition, it tends to have a lower cost than a non-vegetarian meal, visible in the obvious increase in the offer of these options in the restoration. Increasing collective awareness places their food choices in an ethical attitude when knowing the real conditions of industrial production of animals for human consumption, a massive and intensive production that continues to justify the protection of their well-being in a purely utilitarian logic. On the other hand, livestock production is the world's largest pollutant and food choices will be one of the most decisive factors for climate change, with enormous impacts on the consumption of water, energy and land use, increasingly exhausted resources. We are very pleased to note that some authorities are making advances of extreme importance in the information and awareness of people about the impact their diet has on the health and balance of ecosystems. The City Hall of Monchique, for example, has already introduced a vegetarian element into schools, recognizing the qualities and advantages of a different diet. Many children and young people, in schools where they form as citizens, see their freedom of choice sealed in the bureaucracy of the law that, when they do not foresee options, has created various obstacles that exclude them. Parliament is a dynamic space for crossing different views and knowledge and can certainly welcome change in order to improve the nutritional level of the population, to stimulate more ethical and sustainable food patterns and to include a large proportion of citizens who have already followed a different diet!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u216	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today we are discussing the question of social canteens and the quality of their supply and supply. Public canteens have a relevant social role. They serve public service users, employees of such services, services such as the prison system and public education, particularly schools. In many of these canteens is where the most disadvantaged students sometimes have the only nutritionally balanced meal that they take for a whole day and this social role is very important to be underlined in a country, such as Portugal, where these economic difficulties have existed. This is why it is also necessary to look at public canteens as a space where the diversity of the food option that occurs today in Portuguese society, in a particularly marked way. As was mentioned in Mr André Silva's speech today, there is an important part of the population that opts for a regime, a vegetarian diet, and this diversity must be reflected in the public supply of state canteens. In addition, this diversity is an increase in quality due to the presence of the option and the plurality of the nutritional supply that the public canteens should have. Therefore, to defend the public canteens is to defend that they also respond to this diversity in the quality of their service. The importance that the decrease in the presence of protein of animal origin may be in the composition of the diet of the public canteens, with the increase in the diversity of the sources of protein, is not only a postulate of the defenders of vegetarianism. If we look at what the Directorate-General of Health itself says, as a follow-up to the strategy of the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food, two manuals have already been launched for vegetarian nutrition. These manuals were launched with the aim of promoting information available in health institutions on the benefits of the consumption of products of plant origin and their role in the prevention of the disease, particularly in chronic diseases such as cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes and obesity. This is the role of strengthening plant protein in diet composition of most of the population in Portugal, and has been successively diagnosed, as we well know, imbalance in diet composition. Therefore, there is no reason for public canteens to have, in the short term, a vegetarian option in their meals. We will thus have better canteens, more inclusive and healthier. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u218	To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens also present to the Assembly of the Republic a bill providing that public can offer, as an alternative food, a vegetarian plant. I will then make a previous note to explain what we propose in concrete terms, because we propose in concrete terms and how we propose in concrete terms. The previous note is to say that, over the years, The Greens have sought, in this House, that public canteens are becoming more and more exemplary in the offers offered to their users. That is why, and already in this Parliament, a draft law of The Greens was approved which provided that the public canteens were—and I will use this word to be clear—a local product absorber, i.e. that public canteens were also a source of flow of local production, which is an extremely important issue at the economic, social and environmental level, i.e. the relocation of local production and consumption, local demand. I am referring to all this to give an example where this project is also integrated which The Greens now present, i.e. in the sense that the public canteens can be exemplary in the offers they offer to their users. What do we propose in particular? We propose that public canteens or public meals contain a vegetarian menu as an option for other items they offer. This is exactly what we propose. We do not want to force anyone to consume, to be or to become a vegetarian. People make their food choices, we expect, with the awareness of their impacts. But the truth—and now the reason why we present the bill—is that there are many people in Portugal to make the choice for a vegetarian diet and we cannot close our eyes to this reality, especially in public canteens. There are those who don't make that choice, there are those who do it. And the people who make the option for a vegetarian diet end up being furnished with the use of the public canteen, the service that is provided, because there is no offer of this menu, that element. in this sense, we consider until we can qualify this measure as a factor of non-discrimination, and we consider this important. On the other hand, how do we propose that this matter be implemented? As we know, and as has already been mentioned here, the vegetarian diet implies a rationalization of balance and it must be ensured that it does not cause a deficit of important nutrients. And, in this sense, what the Greens propose is that the vegetarian option in public canteens be treated by technicians able to choose programs with balanced composition, as a safeguard of equality and health, in addition to other matters that we consider important. We also propose, ladies and gentlemen. Members, knowing the need for adaptation of the canteens themselves and restaurants to this new reality, in particular to qualified technicians for this purpose, have established a period of adaptation of these 90-day contacts from the entry into force of this law. In short, this is the proposal which the Greens present today to the Assembly of the Republic and which, of course, considers that there are all the conditions for it to be approved. [[PCP and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u220	For an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The regulation of topics related to healthy food, local supply and the safeguarding of quality standards in public canteens have been a political priority of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Food quality is a decisive factor in modern, equal and fair societies, allowing all citizens access to balanced and satisfactory meals, from the point of view of food and nutrition security. in recent times, the fruit of different motivations, the number of Portuguese who adopt the vegetarian regime, permanently, temporary or sporadic, has grown considerably. A healthy diet should be balanced and varied, including, of course, products of plant origin and products of animal origin. These are also the bases of the Mediterranean diet, which, as it is known, is Human Cultural and Immaterial Heritage, according to the UN. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in the number of Portuguese to join a vegetarian diet has led to the implementation of this diet in several public canteens, on a voluntary basis. It should be noted that a large majority of the university canteens already offer a vegetarian option. On the other hand, public hospitals also include a vegetarian option, provided that it is the most appropriate one to the clinical or therapeutic situation of the patient. We believe, in fact, that the inclusion of the vegetarian option in public canteens has been gradual and is being properly implemented. This provision could, in our view, be determined by each establishment on the basis of the demand addressed to it. In addition to the inherent budgetary impacts, which are difficult to count and which should not be disregarded, this hypothesis of inclusion of the vegetarian option lacks a prior assessment with a survey of the point of view of its universality in the different sectors and public services. There are entities, in particular schools, which would have difficulty adapting to the deadline for implementation of the diplomas, since they have already contracted supply for much longer periods. On the other hand, the adoption and maintenance of a vegetarian diet requires scientific, food and, above all, nutritional knowledge that requires specific care in its use, especially in some stages of life, especially in younger ages. The introduction of the vegetarian option in schools requires a qualification plan of the different professionals, who, because of their activity in public school can influence knowledge, attitudes and behaviors in healthy eating habits of children and young people. The promotion of awareness-raising campaigns that include students, educators and the entire educational community should be strengthened to promote a healthy and sustainable diet. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More and better health depends on the choice of a healthy lifestyle, where food is just one of several choices. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u222	Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before the proposals we are discussing here today, we are pleased to note that, first of all, we are for freedom of choice, for plurality, and we do not want to impose our model, our vision on anyone. We accept that there are other visions, perhaps conflicting, often complementary. Therefore, from this point of view, what is absolutely essential is to build healthy, balanced food alternatives, forged in free and conscious choices and which translate into voluntary food options. This seems to me to be a principle that all of us here are capable of accepting. A significant path has already been taken in this regard. It is important that conditions be offered so that this path can be traced by those who understand it, but we should also not neglect certain aspects that are of capital importance when we are dealing with this matter. I would raise a few questions here, from the very outset in relation to the preamble to the draft law of the NAP. The NAP — and this has been habitual in some of the positions it has taken in the Assembly of the Republic — presents in the drafting of proposals which submit to the assessment a more moderate position than that which occurs in the preambles. Therefore, when we look at the preambles, we see the imposition of a unilateral model, which should not respect plurality and freedom of choice, but when we confront it with the constant positions of the projects that submit to the assessment of this Assembly, we see that they shape these circumstances to conditionants, perhaps tactical-strategic, that do not aim the primary objective that is in the genesis of the proposals they present. I would therefore like to raise two or three summary questions which, I believe, should be taken into account in this matter and in the proposals that we must deal with with with with responsibility. Of course, on the issue of cost, it is known, and any one of us understands, that the universalization of the mandatory inclusion of the vegetarian plant in the public canteens has repercussions on the level of costs. This is absolutely obvious. I do not see that this is already estimated, but it is important to do so in order to make an informed decision and to know what is the magnitude of the transformation we are operating on. On the other hand, to some extent this may conflict with food waste and it is good to consider this circumstance, knowing that the diversity of offer may eventually boil under conditions which the Assembly of the Republic, already in previous draft resolutions, considered essential. Then, from a scientific point of view, particularly as regards young people's diet, it is necessary to know how scientific imperatives resulting from a previous assessment of plant and animal protein are safeguarded or not. I would therefore raise these three questions here which I think are important. I understand that we must stop this debate, knowing that, from our point of view, everything that is possible to deepen in the field of freedom of choice, tolerance and diversity of the life projects of each one must not deserve our repudiation or our censorship. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u224	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS is also, and has always been, a party for freedom of choice — freedom of choice in education, health and food. Therefore, any initiative that contributes to a greater diversity of these options will, of course, have our support and agreement. But, for that reason, we understand that these bills presented today are not ambitious, because if, on the one hand, they say that, and I quote, "... it is important that the conditions be ensured so that everyone can follow their diets without any kind of discrimination...", on the other hand, they only foresee the inclusion of the vegetarian diet and ignore others, such as, for example, the kosher diet, the halal or others that are followed not by the choice of each one, but by health issues, such as diet for celiac people, who are intolerant to gluten. Ask this question, in fact, we have nothing against and we are in favour of including the vegetarian diet as an option so that everyone can freely choose. But let's go back to the vegetarian diet: a diet of this kind requires specific, food and nutritional knowledge, which, although simple, are not intuitive. Therefore, like any other dietary pattern, vegetarian diets can be inadequate and even harmful if poorly planned. These statements are not I do them, are statements contained in the Report Guidelines for Healthy Vegetarian Food, which has already been mentioned here and which is referred to in the various bills. However, unlike the interpretation suggested in the texts of these bills, the report does not intend to state that vegetarian food is necessarily a healthy diet. What this report aims to do, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to make a contribution so that anyone who freely opts for a vegetarian diet can do it with sufficient information to make it healthy. This is a difference that may seem subtle, but it's a difference. It is more or less like ‘the Beira road and the road side’: there is a difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u227	This report by the Directorate-General of Health also states that following a vegetarian diet does not imply, at the beginning, more and better health. The reality is that vegetarian diet is often associated with a healthy lifestyle, with more physical exercise and this factor may mask the analysis when comparing a vegetarian diet with other non-vegetarians. Therefore, more and better health depends on the choice and a healthy lifestyle of each where food is only one of the factors of the various choices. There are many good examples of voluntary meals available in the public canteens, particularly in the district where I was elected, where, in the city of Entronicamento, on the initiative of a family, the school began to have vegetarian meals, news that was broadcast today in the TSF. Specifically, to conclude, Madam President, with regard to the articulation of these bills I wanted to leave two notes, one of which seems very relevant to me, because the definition of vegetarian meal that is mentioned here in these bills is wrong, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u229	What is defined here as a vegetarian meal eliminates all products of animal origin.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u230	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u231	As you know very well, this corresponds to a vegan and non-vegetarian diet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u232	Don't generalize, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u233	The draft law of The Greens makes this distinction in the exhibition of motives, but then in the articulate of the bill defines the vegetarian meal as vegan. You don't realize what you're talking about. Members want to legislate, whether it is about a vegan meal and a way of life or whether it is about a vegetarian meal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u234	Mrs. Deputy, you're going to have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u235	I'm going to finish, really, Madam President. I would also like to take note of a delay in the draft law of the NAP which in Article 6. the, when determining the counter-ordinations does not identify them and therefore we cannot perceive what are the counter-ordinations that Mr. Deputies wants to consist of in the bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u236	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The public canteens represent a food offer for those who, in their work, at school, at the university, have to have a meal outside the home, representing an economic solution. In addition, and due to the hardness of recent years' policies, have been the only place where thousands of children make their only balanced meal of the day. The public canteens have a long history, but a set of rules were preventing public services from directly managing those they held and they were delivered to large companies, chosen by national competitions. All this framework and the need for companies to compete with each other in order to win the competitions take room for decisions on the ingredients, quality of the products and even the possibility of buying products of proximity. There are many cases, particularly in schools, where a breakdown in the quality of meals with the passage of canteens to companies was noted. The question of the relationship between product quality and the possibility of buying local production products has already been addressed during the discussion of projects on local consumption in public canteens. This quality is inseparable not only from local production but also from family farming, capable of producing quality and diversity. Food has a close relationship with human health and eating habits have close relationships with various pathologies. The greater the economic difficulties or lower the levels of training, the worse the eating habits tend to be. The relationship between low income and obesity is known. Conscious of the relationship between health and food, many Portuguese choose diets with which they seek to improve their health and quality of life. We know there are many arguments against or in favour of this or that diet. In food matters, as in many others, the inadequate quantity of products has much more to do with possible harm than their consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u239	We do not perform this or that diet apology, until some diets, by restricting the use of some foods, seek variety and nutritional balance through the introduction of exotic products or elaborated from exotic raw materials. Therefore, concerns about the sustainability of human food should take this reality into account. Therefore, the PCP would also not follow positions in order to force or prohibit this or that diet. Diversity and choice possibilities are the answer to concerns with a healthy diet. It does not matter so much to discuss food options because there will be positions and arguments able to defend the various options. The balance will be on a varied diet, with different weights from different food groups, but varied. The canteens, because of their importance in providing meals, should provide their users with irreprehensible quality, but given that they usually operate for a generalised universe of citizens, should also offer a variety of food that meets the wishes and food options of their users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u240	For an intervention on behalf of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Two criticisms have been made which, I believe, it is sensible to accept. One has to do with the question of the definition of the vegetarian plant which, in particular, we can work properly, and the other has to do with the fact that eventually the period of adaptation can be too short, and we, in particular, are prepared to extend this period of adaptation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u243	There are other criticisms that the Greens consider to be irrelevant. One has to do with the question of the quality offered at the meal itself in terms of its nutrients, because if we propose that there be technicians able to schedule these meals, it is clear that this question will be assured. On the other hand, the issue of costs and food waste by the PSD does not seem relevant to us either. Why? There is one thing that needs to be assured, and the honourable Member has just said that we must all ensure, that it is freedom of choice, freedom of choice of food diet. If the offer is not made, there is no freedom of choice. With regard to food waste, what you are saying is that any canteen offering two dishes is promoting food waste. I hope you do not propose here in the Assembly of the Republic that one way to combat food waste is that all the public canteens have only one plate, an element to offer. I don't think that's right. Food waste has to do with the management of food and meals. This is another completely different discussion. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say the following: I understand a criticism that the CDS makes in the sense of saying that there are other diets and other needs, even for health purposes. I believe, Mrs. Member, that soon we will begin to achieve everything. It is recalled, Madam Member, that in the State budget we also proposed for the School Milk Programme the introduction of milk without lactose, but there are other milks which have been left out and which will eventually have to be introduced. So what I think is that we don't have to want everything to take steps to ensure that people's freedom of choice is guaranteed. That is the contribution the Greens would like to make. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u244	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two arguments that oppose the proposals put forward. One is the poor argument, which has now been mentioned, which says that costs are an objection. If the costs were an objection, as Parliament had recently adopted, favouring local production and family farming, it would not have been approved either because, if we had a strict economic criterion, it would be much cheaper to buy large industrial production and large distribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u246	Nobody said that, but we should weigh all that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u247	Here too, it is also a matter of giving priority to the supply of quality and respecting the diversity of options. The second is the strict antitivegetarian argument that was brought to us by the CDS in a somewhat surprising way, because it seems to confuse the vegetarian diet with the Tibetan diet. It seems that as long as there are no public canteens offering kosher or halal there can be no vegetarian offer. That is not an argument that can be brought to the debate. Vegetarianism or vegetarian diet is not a matter of religious choice, it is a matter of nutritional and dietary choice and it is this diversity that must be respected. What is needed is that there is balance in the vegetarian diet, as in the traditional omnivorous diet. What happens to someone who only eats steaks and fries is what happens to someone who only eats beef and tomato. But this balance, which has to be present in any of the offers in the canteens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u248	And that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u249	...is something that needs to be prepared. The objection, as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia also said, is more reasonable that was raised here in time and the need to prepare this transition. On this point, I think that we can build strong agreements here that allow us to improve this offer in the public canteen, improve this diversity and respect the vegetarian option that is now more widespread than it was recently and that more Portuguese and Portuguese choose to do so. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-06-16.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we conclude today's work. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, from 10 a.m. on the following agenda: from the first item, there is a legislative agenda of the PS, on economics and enterprises and, from the second point, the motions for resolutions 4 / XIII ( 1 ) are scheduled without discussion. ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in São Tomé, on 13 July 2015, 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United States of America to Strengthen Fiscal Compliance and Implement the FATCA, signed in Lisbon on 6 August 2015, 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 3 June 2015, 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 17 March 2015, and 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Barém to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Manama on 26 May 2015. at the end of the debate, we will have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 5 minutes.]]
