ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] A meeting of the Ethics Committee is taking place and until that meeting there are several Members. Members speaking on the first point of our agenda today who cannot be here. I wonder if there are conditions to change the order of business, i.e. we will move on to the second point, or if we have the same problem. [[Pause.]] The CDS-PP and PSD have the same problem with regard to the second point of our current agenda that the PS has in relation to the first one, as these banks still have Members in the Ethics Committee. We will therefore have to wait a little while until the Ethics Committee concludes its meeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u2	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u3	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u4	Mr President, since a meeting of the Ethics Committee is taking place and it is of utmost importance, until, as we know, an opinion will be voted on today, I think it would be worth suspending the work of the Plenary and we will return to restart them as soon as the conditions for this are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u5	I propose, then, that we pause in our work until this meeting is over. I recall that in the meantime the vote is taking place for the election of the representatives indicated by the PS and BE parliamentary groups to the National Education Council. [[Pause.]] The meeting of the Ethics Committee has already ended, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are coming, so we will resume our work. I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the Authority to open the galleries. There is no record for reading, which we will proceed to the joint debate of draft law No 155 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Classification and protection scheme for shops and entities with historical and cultural interest ( PS ), in general, and draft resolution No 220 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Classification and valuation of historical stores ( The Greens ). To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party today brings the debate in this House a relevant issue, which has been put on the table and in the front line of the concerns of various actors and local agents in historic centres of the country, which concerns the need to create mechanisms for the protection of so-called stores or entities with historical or cultural interest. It seems to us that it is necessary to complement the existing regime with the possibility of local authorities, in particular municipalities, to be able to classify shops and entities that meet a set of requirements and criteria that identify their heritage value, from traces of intangible heritage, from elements of their insertion and how they are relevant to the experience and interpretation of these historical nuclei and from that reality of the cities in which they are inserted. Therefore, we present an initiative that aims to offer some of the criteria based on the Protection of Cultural Heritage Act that enable us to identify classification criteria, enable the municipal assemblies to deepen and density these classification regimes in a way that enables them and adapt them to local reality, to local cultural specificity, and then, obviously, enable the municipal chambers to proceed to this same classification. It is a practice that is already found in many European cities and that seems to us to meet a aspiration of many of those who look at this heritage of our cities as being preserved and protected. in this line, of course, we must then withdraw illusions regarding this classification as regards the protection regime to be offered. What the PS proposes, in this headquarters, and without prejudice to a more in-depth debate which will necessarily have to be followed in the months following a review and a comprehensive and integrated approach on urban lease, is at least to ensure, through the insertion of this classification criterion, an increase in the protection of historical stores through an extension of the term of the transitional regime and also in the seat of legislation on leased buildings, ensuring that same protection to avoid the removal of these stores in contexts where there is a requalification, demolition and deep intervention in the place. At the same time, and fulfilling an electoral commitment, a commitment from the Government Programme and a commitment included in the Great Plan Options, of course it would not make sense to prolong the transitional regime in relation to this reality of historical stores disregarding the situation of residents, tenants over 65 years of age and incapacity over 60 %. Therefore, we also extend that same deadline, as Mr Coelho later will have an opportunity to deepen during the debate. They are clear proposals, which result from the Socialist Party's electoral commitment on these two issues and which we hope can be the starting point for an extended discussion on all these issues around housing and rent. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u7	To present the Green draft resolution, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution aimed at classifying and valuing historical stores. The fact is that already in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Greens have heard the Union of Trade and Services Associations and the Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal, which have put to us, in a very worrying and very pragmatic way, the question of the Urban Settlement Legal Regime, which mixes housing with non-residential, having concrete consequences on the closure of small trade and has already generated a great concern about these practical effects. The fact is that people make certain investments and, in the face of the legal regime found, it becomes extraordinarily easy to clear, denounce contracts and, therefore, that people remain, if they allow me to express themselves in some way,'stretched', in view of the legal regime that is in force. This is worrying and the Greens have decided to present this draft resolution in the sense that the Assembly of the Republic does indeed reflect on the practical consequences which the legal regimes it adopts have in people's concrete lives, in particular in this case also in small trade, which has already been so affected by the existence and proliferation of large commercial areas, now ending this Urban Rent Legal Regime by being another part to attack this mode of trade, which, in fact, creates a real dynamic and life in our cities and in our localities, and I believe that no one will have the courage to say that a policy should be promoted in order to liquidate these riches of our cities. But at that hearing we were also asked a very particular question about historical stores. They are rather old shops in the cities, of reference, having become even historical pieces, with a real tourist interest and dynamization of these localities. They are not only an economic and social reference—they also have it, in particular in order to create jobs—but they are also references at cultural, heritage and, as I have already mentioned, also tourism. They are an identity heritage of the cities and the truth is that many of these historical shops are at risk of closing their doors because of the Urban Rent Legal Regime. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament has something to do. What the Greens are proposing is that we also involve the government in this area and the local authorities, taking into account the positive experience already advanced by the City Council of Lisbon, but that the Assembly of the Republic takes on a commitment, that of the amendment of the Urban Rent Legal Regime. It is only to prolong the transitional regime, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it does not ultimately solve the problem and is this reflection that the Greens would like to bring to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u9	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There has never been an effective desire on the part of governments to reform the lease, solving the very serious problems that we all know have accumulated over the years, and it was urgent to implement reforms which, on the one hand, encouraged the lease market so that it could grow and become an effective, concrete and accessible response to the majority of the population, and on the other, they could dynamize rehabilitation and transform our housing park and our cities, degraded for years and years of abandonment and as a result of obsolete lease laws, characterized mainly by the freezing of incomes. I wanted to mention here and remind you that it was the previous government, by the firm hand of Dr. Assumption Cristas, who had the lucidity of finally carrying out the profound reform of the urban lease, so essential for Portugal and the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u12	A reform which was a clear bet on the dynamisation of the lease market, with a view to increasing the supply at affordable market prices which, on the one hand, would allow families to meet their housing needs without the use of credit and own housing acquisition, and on the other hand, would contribute to the reduction of costs inherent in economic activities. But more: this reform has also created a very significant set of measures to speed up and stimulate urban rehabilitation, which is already visible to the naked eye. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the objectives of this reform which was carried out by the PSD and the CDS Government was precisely to prevent the sharp degradation of the building park, as I have already mentioned, of the freezing of income. Moreover, this reform has also alerted the interests of all parties, particularly the weaker social groups. Thus, a social protection model was adopted, either during the transitional period or later, to safeguard tenants with greater economic difficulties, particularly the elderly, through income allowance. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the PS wants with this bill is, on the pretext of a valid question, the pretext of historical stores, reverse the reform made and return to a new form of income freezing, with the consequences that we all unfortunately know in the recent past. It is up to the State to ensure compliance with the constitutional right of all to a decent housing. It is up to the State to promote protection measures for the most deprived, in particular as regards housing. It is up to the State to promote and support the rehabilitation and regeneration of our cities. All of this is the responsibility and mission of the State, not of the lords or individuals. [[CDS-PP applause.]] A word concerning the preservation of historical shops, with which, in fact, we fully agree. This design can and should be achieved through existing mechanisms or to be created by municipalities and not through an old freezing recipe, which has already given all the evidence that it does not result, harming landlords and tenants, and has only contributed to the degradation of buildings. Thus, disagreeing with the recitals at all, we agree with the Greens draft resolution with regard to the recommendations, but do not follow the PS bill for all the reasons I mentioned. Thus, the CDS will be available, as a specialist, to contribute to the improvement of existing regimes with regard to the preservation of historical stores. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying the obvious: what the PS brings us here today is undoubtedly an authentic order.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u13	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u14	It brings us here a review made to the extent of some municipalities, such as Lisbon, to the detriment of the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in sight of all of us. The socialist autorquic campaign began. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u15	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the PSD/CDS government imposed the current law of urban lease we reported that another step was being taken towards the liberalisation of the so-called « lease market ». Contrary to what the CDS said here, this law has not caught any interest of the most disadvantaged, it has previously benefited the interests of the landlords, the speculative activity of the real estate sector, to the detriment of the rights of tenants and tenants. It is a law that protects tenants, questions the right to housing, by allowing very high income values, and makes it easier to clear, while at the same time challenging the activity of an important economic sector, trade, in particular small trade and traditional trade. After more than three years of its entry into force, as far as small trade and traditional trade are concerned, the reality, unfortunately, has confirmed the consequences that we had already anticipated in 2012: the closure of thousands of small commercial establishments throughout the country. Due to the enormous increase in incomes and the existence of a set of mechanisms that allow unilateral eviction of the tenant, PSD and CDS are directly responsible for the disappearance of numerous small shops and traditional shops and for the destruction of jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u18	It is not worth expressing concerns about small trade here when they were, in fact, directly responsible for the situation in our country today and also for the loss of the very identity of many localities, which led to the impoverishment of the life and dynamics of these same localities. I believe that when the CDS Member referred to the clarity of the current law on urban rental, he must be referring to the high income values that people do not have the right to pay, the clearance and closure of thousands and thousands of shops in our country. [[PCP applause.]] We follow the concerns expressed in the initiatives under discussion, as well as the need to intervene on this reality. On the one hand, measures must be taken to prevent the closure of commercial establishments, but it is insufficient to be directed only to historical shops. It must be more comprehensive and include all small trade and traditional trade. It is necessary to go further in responding to the problems that currently exist and intervene, among other things, with regard to income values, ensuring greater stability, or strengthening the conditions of compensation for works. On the other hand, as regards housing rent, it is obvious that the interests of tenants over 65 years of age and with old contracts must be safeguarded, given that the end of the transitional period provided for in the law is approaching. It is important to consider a definitive solution and to guarantee the stability of the lives of these people at this stage of their lives, as well as to intervene on the high values of the income to which the law leads and which are unconformable to many tenants, putting an end to mechanisms that facilitate clearance. The CFP reiterates the commitment it has made and will work and intervene to put an end to the injustices introduced by the current law of urban lease, which is popularly referred to as « the law of evictions », which negatively affects tenants and the constitutional right to housing, small establishments, republics or collectives of culture and recreation. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u19	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Moreira da Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are not discussing the protection of historical stores, we are discussing the reversal of the income law. We are not mistaken as to the heading that has been used.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u22	This is an alibi reversal. In the background, it is a reversal that seeks to justify the inaction of some municipalities that have at their disposal protective mechanisms, through territorial management instruments, of historical shops. Therefore, it was necessary to produce a reality in order for this reality to fit into the discourse of the left in relation to the lease.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u24	There is no justification for reverting successful reform. With regard to housing lease, the reform includes a transitional period and after the transition period, protecting the most vulnerable, was approved in 2015 an income allowance to ensure that even after the transition period the most vulnerable tenants would be protected. Therefore, it is not justified to be now reversing a reform, which is now made for budgetary reasons, and it would be important for the left to say that they will reverse the income law by blocking the introduction of the income allowance because they have no budgetary will to carry out what the previous government has failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u26	Secondly, with regard to commercial leases — where, therefore, the issue of historical stores is included — its protection is ensured with regard to the rental model, because it has been ensured for establishments with less than 10 workers and less than 2 million euros of turnover. We should have an idea of what we are talking about: they are protected for a period of five years plus three years, i.e., eight years of protection. Over these eight years, the left ones now present to us seven more years of prolongation of the freezing of income, i.e., they predict that by 2027, these commercial establishments maintain the freezing of income. What is at stake, therefore, is to try to find a justification for the incapacity that some municipalities, particularly in Lisbon, have revealed to protect these establishments. Historical stores must be protected and municipalities have protective mechanisms, from the outset preventing some new buildings, unacceptable from an environmental point of view, living in the same neighborhood with historical shops and preventing, for example, that new large-scale commercial establishments live in the same neighborhood with historical shops, hindering street trade. This, yes, is at the disposal of the municipalities and it is possible to intervene in this area. We are therefore talking about a reversal that is incomprehensible in motivation, is wrong in the recommended solution and is serious in the results it will generate, which eventually translates two models of society. As regards the urban environment, we have 700 000 fires returned, 1 million degraded fires, 80 % of the population living in their own housing and only 20 % on the lease market, 10 % of the turnover of civil construction allocated to urban rehabilitation, when the European average is 30 %. We understand that, in the face of a picture of these, it is not the freezing of incomes or the use of social security funds for urban rehabilitation that translate the non-conformist impulse in the diagnosis and reformist in the solution. The solution goes through structural reforms such as those carried out in the lease—and where I have, as I know, within the PSD/CDS government, a role in improving the reform initially approved—but also in reforming the planning of the territory, the income allowance, the exceptional urban rehabilitation regime and the introduction of financial mechanisms, such as the Rehabilitation to Arrendar, for private individuals, and the financial instruments under the Portugal 2020 programme, which, curiously, were criticized by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party in the election campaign and that this week was presented with a pump and circumstance, as if it were a great novelty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u27	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have just heard from the PSD Member that it is intended to put an end to the income law, and that is true. from the part of the Left Block we always said that this income law was, in fact, the law of evictions, because that was what caused for most people and, in fact, changes are necessary to this law, because it directly attacks the right to housing but also the dynamics of cities, when it comes to trade, and shoots — and shot, as it has been seen in recent times — responsibility for municipalities. In fact, we are currently in a situation of eviction not only in housing—which in some cities mostly falls on older people—but also on stores, especially small traders and historical shops. in this case, those who benefit are the landlords, because in most cases they are shops that have suffered many improvements made by traders and, in the end, those who will benefit are the landlords, and the cities lose with these closures. The question of store stories and its defense also has much to do with the small trade and the tourist pressure that is living in some cities. These closures undermine the social and economic dynamics of cities. We therefore agree that there is a need for amendments to this law also in the field of trade, in addition to other areas which will also be covered in the working group on housing that exists and which will be in operation to discuss these issues: tenants over 65 years of age, small traders and republics. Therefore, there is a whole social and economic dynamics associated with the income problem that needs to be changed and reversed urgently. What moves us, unlike the right, is the right to housing, the right to the existence of small trade, and not the real estate interests, as was the result of the income law that was previously approved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u29	For a new intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have just forgotten to say something that I think is absolutely important. These representatives of these micro and small businesses of commerce and services complain that they were not involved, at the proper time, when the legal regime of urban rent was built. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, when interested people are not involved in this, that is, there is a greater risk of producing a regime that not only meets the needs of this trade and services but also of a whole collective, which are cities and societies. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are reminded of the discussion of the time and much that has been said later, of the conviction that many of you are convinced. Members had to have the market self-regulated and the market regulated everything, which is not true. In the rental area it is more than proven that it is not true and this trade and services confront exponential increases of income that force them, simply, to close doors. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we either do like the ostrich and put our heads on the sand or we face this reality, but everyone's responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u31	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u32	I will now finish, Mr President. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not enough, as the PSD said here, not to place a wider commercial unit next to a historical store so that the historical store can survive. This is completely masking the problem and completely passing by. We therefore make a final appeal for the approval of the Greens draft resolution, which aims at the creation of programmes to support historical stores but also a commitment of the Assembly of the Republic, in order to effectively revise the law of urban lease. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u33	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Coelho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members: Nothing further discredits politics than we promise something in opposition and we do the opposite when we are in government. Nothing is more harmful to the image and political credibility than saying something during an election campaign and then doing the opposite when we get to the government. I am referring to the transitional regime. You said, and you won the elections by saying - that they would guarantee a 15-year transition period for tenants; they arrived at the government and reduced it to five years and this is the central issue in relation to the urban lease regime. You have made a law that can throw into the street hundreds of people who are at the end of their life cycle, who have been living in their homes for more than 20 years, 30 or 40 years and who now, from 2017 onwards, have a "sword on their head": or they bear the increase of unmeasured income that you imposed or, then, will have to leave and go to the street. You say you've predicted this through the compensation allowance. Where is this planned? Where is that budgeted? What are the accounts you made? They haven't, they haven't, and so this can't happen like this. The reality is that in 2017 they will start falling into people's homes, people who are on average 75 years old and suffer, many of them of great iliteracy, cards saying the following: "Your income has gone from 100 € to 1000 €" or "has passed from 70 € to 500 €", which is what is already happening, with all the loopholes that you put in the legislation. This can't be. It can't be! The second thing about which we must also clarify all the honourable Members. Members who are on the basis of this law that exists today are that the law of leases is already free. That's not true. All contracts since 1990 are signed by the price that the landlord and the landlord want and hire and by the time they are determined, but we are talking about those people who have contracts prior to 1990, who are no longer so much that they are still many and are significant in the cities that have a great historic center, which are in fact completely weakened and that they will see themselves, in the short term, as I said here, faced with the situation of having to go to the street if we do not finally reject your honor, because you said that they would be 15 years but then, through silence, they made a legislation where they gave them a transitional regime of 5 years. That's the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u35	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u36	The Socialist Party has always said and has always stated that the transitional period should be 15 years and what we are trying to do with this proposal is to give people the opportunity to have time to adapt to the new income law, to the new income increase. Therefore, this is not a freeze. Another "serious crime" that you have done on this issue, and that has to do with renting the historical shops and the tenants, was that you have furnished the municipalities with the classification of deep works.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u37	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u38	I am now finishing, Mr President. That is what makes the historical shops in great difficulty today. Municipalities don't have a word to say about whether that work is deep or not. It is enough for a technician to sign—and certainly will be the owner of the work—and to say that the work is deep so that the stores are faced with imminent clearance situations and with eviction cards. This is what's at stake, this is what needs to be furnished. Of course, we must review this lease law and try to find deep consensus that restores the balance of the current law, which is completely unbalanced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u39	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the third item on our agenda, I would like to remind you that there is an election of representatives from the PS and BE parliamentary groups to the National Education Council. The joint discussion of lein projects 152 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Deputies and the Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges ( BE ), 153 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amending the Statute of Members by making the system of exclusivity of Members compulsory to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), 141 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Members ( CFP ), 142 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of incompatibilities and impediments of holders of political positions and high public positions ( Eighth amendment to Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ( PCP ), 150 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the rules for transparency and rigour in the exercise of political and high public positions and control over unjustified capital increases ( PS ), in general, and draft resolution No 215 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for the strengthening of transparency in the exercise of public functions ( PS ). To present the Bills of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are faced with the crisis of politics, the crisis of democracy. Since democracy is based on a contract of trust between those who vote, those who choose and those who are elected, we realize that this crisis is therefore rooted in the mistrust that exists between a considerable part of the people and those who are elected by it. We can even weave several comments to deepen this vision. Democracy is at issue with this mistrust when one looks, for example, at unfair and unfair tax systems, in which some pay and others seem to have always had a tax haven not to pay; at parliaments that seem increasingly empty as real decision-making centres; or at political decisions increasingly taken in corridors, in dark spaces, and increasingly in the transparency of democracy and the publicity of their choices. All of this undermines democracy and all of this undermines the confidence that should exist in the democratic system. Therefore, when we look at politicians, political leaders who are elected by the people, we must realize that, first of all, it is in the crisis of distrust for them that we must respond to qualify for democracy and rescue this need to give more transparency, more frontalness and respond to the call for demand in the conduct of public destinations. Otherwise, it may give rise to the accusation that politicians often exist that they protect each other, that the laws are made as facts in accordance with their interests and not those of the people and the public interest, that politicians, in practice, are a caste, an endogamic regime that lives closed in itself. If we do not respond by transparency and trust, then these accusations will make their way and will increasingly undermine the democracy in which we live. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, the Left Block has marked this debate. We want to respond by attacking promiscuity and ending the clientalism that may exist between public interests and private interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u42	Do nothing feeds populism, do nothing feeds demagogy. Some who say that we cannot respond to populism, we cannot respond to demagogy and cannot respond to specific cases that are feeding either demagogy or populism, it is precisely the opposite: to do nothing is to give strength to those who have orchestrated campaigns against democracy, who have orchestrated campaigns based on demagogy and populism to attack the heart of each and every one of us, and that is democracy. That is why it is strange, in a debate of this importance, that there is no single legislative initiative of the PSD or the CDS. It would be hoped that, when confronted with this popular cry and with this desire of society, all parliamentary groups would present their ideas and opinions here, confronting them in the plural and democratic debate so that we would withdraw what is best and thus qualify for democracy. Now, PSD and CDS, perhaps still submerged in the Maria Luís Albuquerque case, did not present a single proposal on this matter. Let's start wrong! We start wrong because the right after all seems absent in this fundamental debate for our democracy. The Left Block has gone far. It was far away because it is by far that this cry of demand in the transparency of political life comes. We do not act on specific cases, but we realize, if our amendments to the law were already law, that concrete cases would no longer be cases, because the law would resolve them without any doubt, without margin for any interpretation. In the specific case, can a minister leave the government and go to work, months later, for a private company in the sector of activity he has kept, of which he has deep knowledge, from which he possibly has access to confidential data? ', the answer of the Left Block is the following: it must not, and we clearly want this to happen, that the law says that it is not possible for anyone 'to jump' from the Government to the private, to the sector of activity that you have protected and that may seem normal in democracy. Don't! The law cannot allow it and this is the proposal of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Simplifying the law as simple as the phrases I said earlier is the answer to make the law more effective. Simplifying the law is to put an end to the handles that allow whenever there is a case as per the comma or a case as per the hole that was created in the law, it is known by whom. Simplifying the law is to protect democracy, it is to guarantee this necessary transparency. Let's go further: we have changed the incompatibilities but we say that the proposal of the Left Block is clear, unequivocal. We are in favour of the exclusive mandate of Member States. We know the difficulty of this proposal being extended to the most distant banks, but we also know that we require no less for our Members than what is required in France, than what is required in Spain, than what is required for a member of the government, because Parliament is not a minor sovereign body and Members have no smaller responsibilities than other holders of public office. We also know that many of the accusations made are false. The idea of the professionalization of politics is wrong. In all the banks, there are Members and Members who are in the process of exclusivity and who are not policy professionals, because none of us are policy professionals. We are all dependent on the trust and vote of the people and the only thing we are sure of is that our mandate ends at the end of the legislature. There's no more certainty than this! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Finally, Mr President, saying that the proposals of the Left Block today under discussion are about the exclusivity and incompatibilities of the Members. There are other proposals from other parties and the Left Block has also introduced initiatives on other matters, particularly on transparency, the unjustified enrichment regime and the enrichment regime in an undeclared manner — and that therefore violates transparency — which we want to discuss in depth. We will have an opening to confront our opinions with the views of the other sides. There is an opening to, quickly, close the door to corruption, sympathy and promiscuity, because this urgency is the cry of democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u43	To present the PCP bills, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It says the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which resulted from April and whose anniversary we now celebrate in the article « Fundamental principles » : « The economic and social organization is based on the following principles: (a) Subordination of economic power to democratic political power ». However, the debate on the issues of promiscuity between economic power and political power and the subordination of political power to the dictates of economic power today assumes a grueling present in the eyes of all Portuguese. The CFP has long been alerting us to the problem of promiscuity between political power and economic power and the dangers it poses for our democracy. Thus, once again, the CFP has presented concrete proposals to amend the law, tighten and improve the rules that aim to prevent this promiscuity that undermines democracy, degrades the democratic regime and is a fertile field for the illegitimate privileges and benefits of the large economic groups. We know that this promiscuity is not only solved with an amendment to the law, but reality has clearly shown that the law is insufficient. We do not only bear in mind the situation that we are discussing today by the former Minister. There are many other cases that the PCP has long been demonstrating and reporting, alerting to these types of problems and situations. It is clear to the CFP that, for a long time, there is a difficulty in combating the promiscuity between political power and economic power. If the law is either misunderstood or insufficient, then there is no doubt about the urgency of changing the law, as the CFP now proposes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today the CFP presents two bills that aim to amend the Statute of Deputies and the law that determines the impediments and incompatibilities for public office holders and political office holders. As regards the Statute of Members, among many other amendments, we propose that we end the genuine offshore that exists for lawyers companies. Today, the Statute of Members allows Members who are at the same time lawyers to mediate and participate in business with the State if they are entered into a company of lawyers, something which is not allowed if the same Member and lawyer performs the profession alone. We know that law firms today are often used to broker and participate in business with the State. Not applying the Statute of Deputies to members of lawyers companies is unacceptable to the CFP. In the legal regime of the incompatibilities and impediments of the holders of political positions and high public positions, among other amendments, we propose that these holders cannot, for the period of five years, exercise functions in companies that have protected and removed all the subterfuges and slippers that lead to what law is rarely applied today. The CFP welcomes all the proposals under discussion today that are aimed at improving the legal regime and thus contributing to a more effective fight against the promiscuity that exists. Of course, we do not agree with all the proposals, but we are committed, as we discuss the speciality, to discuss, reflect and move forward with concrete proposals that solve other problems that exist in the legal order. We will, on our own initiative, insist on the need for discussion of illicit enrichment, because this is an issue that needs to be addressed. We must not fail to mention that, as for this whole set of questions, PSD and CDS put their heads on the sand and nothing they propose. The CFP, as in the past, is moving forward with concrete solutions to the problems that exist and is committed to doing everything to combat the promiscuity between the political power and the economic power that undermines the democracy of April. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u45	To present the bill and the PS draft and resolution, Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To strengthen the transparency of public and civic life, to increase the confidence of citizens in their institutions and to densify the state of democratic law are the declared purpose of the set of proposals that the PS brings today's debate. The construction of an increasingly solid and inclusive democracy is, as we well know, an ever-ending task that can never be stopped from being accompanied by an ongoing struggle against behaviors or areas of opacity that could undermine their foundations and thus jeopardise citizens' confidence in their institutions. We believe, however, that a debate in this Parliament on this matter will only have to be won if, apart from us, its immediate agents, we are able to convene the contribution of civil society, of the academy, of all those, who can finally contribute to the qualification of our reflection. That is, of course, the purpose of the draft resolution that we have tabled and through which we want to see a possible committee set up to strengthen transparency in the exercise of public functions. It is therefore aware that the credibility of the institutions of the Republic here requires a more comprehensive and participatory work that the PS brings together all the political forces and civil society for this committee, where, we believe, the conditions for a serious and qualified debate that corresponds to the expectations of all those who seek a democracy, it itself most qualified. Without prejudice to that committee, the PS considers it appropriate to make a contribution from now on to this reflection by proposing, immediately, a set of legislative amendments which, synthetically, I announce. Thus, with regard to the system of incompatibility and impediments of the holders of political positions, the regime already applicable today after the termination of functions is strengthened by extending it, after analysis by the competent parliamentary committee, to the exercise of duties in undertakings that continue relevant impact activity in the sector which they have directly protected, as well as in cases where a direct intervention by the former holder of political office has occurred in the company's activities. On the other hand, for the same period, we also see political office holders of an executive nature accepting positions in international organisations with which they have negotiated on behalf of the State, safeguarding the situations that we also explain. Similarly, we extend the impediment perimeter, extending it to state consultants in privatization processes and granting of assets in which they have had intervention, which will then be prevented from performing functions in the counterparties of the negotiation for the same period of time. The regime of public registration of interests, already enshrined in the Assembly of the Republic for Members and Members of the Government, is extended to municipalities and parish with more than 10 000 inhabitants. In addition, the system of impediments to companies held by holders of a sovereign body or political office in the exercise of trade or industry activity becomes extensible under the same conditions — and because the same justifications apply to them — to companies of professionals which are subject to professional public associations. With regard to amendments to the Statute of Members, in a desirable separatement of activities, relevant changes are introduced in the form of impediments: the impossibility of serving as an expert, consultant or arbitrator in any process in which the State or any other public entity is party; the impossibility of performing functions as a consultant, issuing opinions or exercising the judicial mandate in actions, in any forum, for or against the State or any public entity; and the impossibility of providing services, maintaining subordinated working relations or integrating, in any capacity, bodies of institutions, undertakings or credit companies, insurance companies and financial companies and even public service concession firms or being party to a public-private partnership with the State. Mr. As and Mrs. Members, we also consider particularly relevant the amendments we propose to the regime for the public control of the wealth of political office holders, which are accompanied by amendments to the General Tax Law, the General Tax Offences Regime and the IRS Code. Thus, with regard to combating unjustified enrichment, the PS recovers the solution according to the Constitution, which had already submitted, and which, having been approved at the time of its initial presentation, would have already provided the Country with an effective instrument for its fight rather than having any instrument, since this was the fruitless result of the two laws which were clearly and unequivocally rejected by the Constitutional Court. And here we come, we want to point out unequivocally that, when we talk about the need to contribute to strengthening the prestige of the institutions, we are also talking about the need to contribute to the prestige of the judiciary with our actions. In fact, no political force can ignore the fact that, by continuing to pass manifestly unconstitutional laws in this matter, it will only contribute so that the legal hyliteracy of many of its voters can take root in such a simple and perverse thought: that is what courts do not want to combat corruption. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The damage to the credibility of the judicial system resulting from such an exercise of populism can never cease to deserve our vehement repudiation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, performing the presentation of income statements to the Constitutional Court, and the consequent possibility of public consultation, as is known, a key role in strengthening the confidence of citizens in the holders of political and equal positions, will not fail to have clear consequences both of the lack of delivery of that declaration, as possible omissions or inaccuracies that consist of it. On these statements, it is understood, firstly, that the universe of persons subject to its obligation must cover clearly, in addition to the holders of political and equal positions, all the senior leaders of the direct and indirect administration of the State, as well as the local administration and autonomous regions. Secondly, in order to strengthen the guarantees of suitability and transparency, the obligation to submit a final declaration of income and heritage three years after the termination of office is introduced, while the obligation to update the declaration for those who are in office is maintained during that period. It is also envisaged to criminalize the intentional non-conformity of the legal declaration of income and property submitted by the holders of political office, with capital increases or revealed by those and not declared, and it follows that, both in cases of non-submission of declarations, as well as in cases where there is knowledge or suspicion that they are omitted or inaccurate, it explicitly establishes, together with the existing powers of assessment of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the duty of the Constitutional Court to communicate this fact to the Tax Authority, so that it can act for the purposes provided for in the law in respect of manifestations of unwarranted wealth and other property increases. The legislative framework presented is therefore comprehensive and responds to difficulties, consensually identified over the last few years, of the application of the legal regimes in question. We are convinced, however, that the most comprehensive and participated reflection, resulting from the work of the committee whose creation we propose, can allow us to go much further and to add other measures to the framework of amendments outlined here. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this month of April, in which we mark the 40 years of the Constitution and in a few days to celebrate the 42 years of the « whole and clean day », we propose to the Assembly of the Republic the creation of a qualified space for the weighting of these matters is itself a way of offering our contribution to the deepening of democracy and to the dignity of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u47	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, the Bureau registered a Member to make requests for clarification. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u48	Mr President, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, in the initiatives presented by the PS there is a question, in addition to matters relating to the incompatibilities and impediments of Members and holders of political positions and high public positions, which has to do with unjustified enrichment. This is a matter on which the Assembly of the Republic has discussed, discussed and even adopted legislative diplomas which have twice been rejected by the Constitutional Court. from the PCP, which has always accompanied with initiatives and proposals this discussion that was made so that a law to combat unjustified enrichment could be passed, we did not cease to denounce the maneuvers that were developed by the PSD in these circumstances to purposely approve a law that was declared unconstitutional. Moreover, in the second legislative procedure this was evident. The PSD knew of the arguments that the Constitutional Court had already given and still insisted on a legislative solution that could be unconstitutional precisely to « account ». The PSD wanted to « take account » of a law on combating unjustified enrichment, which it knew would be rejected by the Constitutional Court. We are convinced that the fight against unjustified enrichment must be one of the priorities, especially in combating corruption, combating economic and financial crime and promiscuity between economic power and political power. We are committed to this discussion, this time in the Assembly of the Republic, to be taken to good use with the approval of a law which is not declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, and we will present a legislative initiative in this regard. In accordance with this objective, the PS would appear to share, however, that it would like to ask Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão a few questions. There are two aspects to the solution proposed by the PS for which there is no convergence, from our perspective, i.e. within the framework and under the conditions under which the proposal is defined. The PS believes that the fight against unjustified enrichment should be limited to the scope of political power, political leaders, of the electors who have to make a statement at the Constitutional Court. Now, we think that this is a small area. And I give him an example: a few years ago, a banker forgot to declare a few million euros to the tax, and only in the court proceedings did he remember that he had, after all, a few million euros, whose origin he never justified, to declare to the tax. We believe that the scope of the initiative to combat unjustified enrichment should not be limited only to those responsible and to political electors, it should also cover such situations of persons who, without political responsibilities and without having to submit the return to the Constitutional Court, are not obliged to declare their incomes and to be covered by the penalty of unjustified enrichment when that circumstance occurs. We would like to know whether there is willingness on the part of the PS to consider extending the scope of unjustified enrichment, so as not to let situations like these run away from the meshes of the law. Mr President, the second question I would like to ask you has to do with the consideration of an aspect which cannot only be from a fiscal point of view. That is, there is a need to cross two dimensions of the problem of unjustified enrichment, that is, on the one hand, the dimension of the tax impact that has the non-declaration of income or its justification and, on the other, the cross with a criminal practice, with the identification of a crime, a criminal unlawful act, which, in this way, must also be persecuted from the point of view of the courts. Therefore, there is a need to find a solution that, through these two aspects, does not fail to respond to the complexity of reality involving unjustified enrichment. We wanted to know whether there was any openness on the part of the Socialist Party to consider these aspects in the field of specialty, so that, once and for all, the Assembly of the Republic could pass a law which, while not violating the Constitution, would not cease to combat unjustified enrichment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u49	To reply, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u50	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, I thank you for your question, for which, in fact, you have had more time than I have now to answer you. I can't stop subscribing your first recital. In other words, the proposals which were put forward in this House and voted against by the Socialist Party, deserved the opposition of the Socialist Party because the result that they had come to pass was expected: the rejection, unanimously, by the Constitutional Court. When the Constitutional Court pronounced itself unanimously against a law it was because, obviously, it would not take into account its minimum assumptions. The PS is available, as it has always been and has always offered its contribution, to the fight against unjustified enrichment, aware of the corrosive effect it has on the political system. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing — and I have been modest enough to offer the contribution of this reflection to the committee that will be set up — that we will never be able to escape on the ground that we call into question the rule of law: criminal law exists to punish behaviour. That is the assumption of criminal law. As the Constitutional Court has well pointed out, as long as anyone wants to apply criminalization to mere — I am quoting the Constitutional Court — and I am quoting the Constitutional Court — a change in property between two dimensions, it will never be possible to see which conduct was underlying this variation. In other words, enrichment is a result, it is not a behavior and, therefore, what has to be criminalized is behavior and, while insisting on criminalizing the result, they can make grandoloquent interventions, but will always fall into unconstitutionality. In any case, what I want to say to you, and that is the purpose of my speech, is that these amendments that we propose are not timely or surgical interventions, they intend to form a deep reflection on the system, in order to improve it. Obviously we are available for all solutions that can improve the response.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u52	I shall conclude with this, Mr President. With regard to your question, in particular, I think, but subject to the question of weighting in the committee we propose, that we will hardly be able to criminalize behaviour if it is not accompanied by a declaration obligation. It is clear, therefore, that if we are talking about a universe of subjects for which it prevents a special obligation to declare heritage, it will be easier to go that way. In any case, by responding, concluding and thanking Mr President's tolerance, our availability is, as always, total. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u53	For an intervention, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if it is true that the exercise of political functions must always be guided by the primacy of the public interest, its demanding scrutiny by public opinion is the watermark of democratic societies. Transparency is a friend of freedom, in the same terms in which opacity is the enemy of democracy. Transparency, at all levels of political power, more than a guarantee of the credibility and prestige of the institutions, is a prerequisite for the credibility and trust that, in a healthy democracy, citizens should have in their elected and representatives. Keeping up to date the requirements and rules that ensure this transparency, so that they follow the level of demand that free societies claim, that is to defend democracy, is to defend the rule of democratic law. It is not a question of throwing any cloak of suspicion or evidence of loss of political activity. None of that. I think that is the opposite of it, because it must be said that transparency adds clarity, deconstructs the curse, qualifies those who perform the function independently and exempt. The PSD will always see with good eye the genuine concerns in defending these values and welcomes contributions that are motivated by serious and far-reaching reasons. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not serious to launch the Assembly of the Republic in a legislative frenzy, fuelled by ad-hom political sale.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u56	Since it is not serious to want to make this debate an alarm of a pretense moral superiority to which some, in a very despicable way, rise. [[PSD applause.]] It is clear to everyone, although some intend to disguise it, that, for the beginning of the discussion, this debate is an avid start. He's born sentry, but I'd say, I wish you'd go straight, because, I predict the worst if we persist in going there. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, for my reasons, looks carefully at the initiative of setting up a possible committee to review and update the regime applicable to holders of political positions. It is, moreover, a position that is not today. I therefore welcome the Socialist Party's change of mind, and be now available to seek the consensus that we must build on this. the last time we had on the table, at the initiative of the Social Democratic Party, a proposal to establish a committee precisely with this object, the PS rejected this possibility, making it impossible to establish the committee. It is worth it, moreover, to revisit the socialist arguments then stated here, to remind ourselves, and to be well present, of the wrong temptation in which we should not fall again. The Socialist Party, in this plenary, said in the debate in which it rejected the constitution of the committee proposed by us: "Is this legislative impulse influenced by controversial episodes or situations that are raised in the media? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u58	And the socialist bench continued: "We reject the facilitation or demagogy of the alleged moralists who assume themselves as instances of ethical judgment, which are not. What these new pseudo-ethical instances want is the use of morals for other purposes. It is to achieve morals with political objectives, political criticism, or, then, with the aim of increasing audiences. Do not keep on seeking. ” Some water ran under the bridges, from these statements of the Socialist Party. It's true. But I would like to believe that it has not been such an insult to annihilate the values and principles that should guide us in this matter — and to guide us all, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The Left Block also, in this Chamber, opposed the proposals presented by the PSD on these matters...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u59	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u60	..., declaring by its former parliamentary leader: "I do not think it is constitutionally appropriate—to say nothing else—that, being the free and inviolable mandate on the part of Members, and only limited by law, there is someone in the hierarchy of Parliament who is ‘more representative’ than the others, and can condition the mandate of other Members". And the former leader of the Left Block bench continued: « we do not understand Parliament as a sort of order or union, which requires a board of ethics. Parliament is a sovereign body, the mandates are free and the representatives are accountable to the people who elected them and before the law. And what the law indicates is the applicable."
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u61	And all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the times are changing, the wills are changing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u63	And we reaffirm the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u64	The seriousness of purposes is a touchstone for the work that we can do in this committee to achieve a good result. For our part, we will be faithful to three central principles: to open up the reflection and debate to contributions outside these four walls, to the voters and to the society we represent here, but not to replace; to reject the legislative drive of anyone who wants to make this matter a weapon of political struggle, disqualification when he seeks to disqualify his equals; to bet on strengthening transparency and accountability of our mandate and the work of the Members of Parliament and the Members of the Commission. Members, rejecting a view that only the exclusivity and corresponding path to the functioning of the elect safeguard the existence of any kind of purity or righteousness in the exercise of parliamentary functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u65	Purity is beautiful!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u66	We do not accept the path to mandatory functionalization, as we do not see in the blogger proposal for the return of the 'ioio' Members. The Member of Parliament or the Member of the European Parliament, who enters and leaves Parliament at the pace of his party or personal conveniences, is a disregard and disrespect for the vote of the voters, a vote that legitimizes his mandate. It's not that way, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to go. I hope, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us all acknowledge ourselves in the values of transparency, freedom and responsibility and that we can converge on the principles I have set out. I hope that we will be able to meet consensus that reinforces transparency in political action, without sales or ad-hum taxes. And now I am making a separate point: attempts to rewrite the story that I have now heard from Mr. João Oliveira do not pick up. In fact, the Social Democratic Party was the first in this House to present a proposal that criminalized illicit enrichment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u67	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u68	They're facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u69	As I said, we must meet with consensuss that positively update the rules that preside over the free and responsible exercise of political functions, which consolidate the confidence and recognition that, in democracy, there must be among the electors and for themselves. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u70	Mr Luís Marques Guedes, the Bureau shall register for clarification. Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u71	Mr President, Mr Luís Marques Guedes, I would like to congratulate you and thank you for referring to the purity of this debate...! The honourable Member speaks of the functionalization of political life and of the risk that exists in our projects that this can happen. In this respect, the right is used to talk about functionalization and the risk of enhanced incompatibilities and even, as an obligation of exclusivity, to remove the best from political life. I want to go to that: who are the best in political life? Is a highly qualified framework in counseling or management consulting and which makes laws not to defend the public interest, but to safeguard the particular interest of your group or your people? No, it's not! Anyone prestigious in any sector of activity, but who skips between the exercise of the regulatory responsibility of that sector and the management of companies in the same sector is the best for political life? No, it's not! It's the one who actually throws dishonor on political life.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u72	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u73	And please, honourable Member, do not invoke the risk of professionalization and of the functionalization of politics. Those who do nothing but support political life as a career; those who are pleased with the schools of aparechistic ascension from youth; those who have always fought the limitation of mandates or used tricks to circumvent it; those who run between the institute annexed to the party, the association of the party's autarchs, the party's district political commission, the party's national coordination and the party's parliamentary group from where they leave for a public enterprise or a public-private partnership thanks to the party's loyalty and therefore have no authority to criticize serious incompatibilities for supposedly functionalizing political life. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Yes, we have a duty to bring the best for politics, to bring those who do not give up to give primacy to the public interest, to bring who is wise and not to those who are smart, to bring those who serve and not to those who serve themselves, to bring those who give up for local, national or world causes, and to see in politics the prolongation of this delivery and only that. For these and for these who are really the best there are no incompatibilities that bother them, because that is a matter that does not arise to them. This is our challenge here today, Mr Luís Marques Guedes: to adopt laws that ennoble and qualify democratic politics. That is what these projects do, and therefore I ask you if you are available to accept this challenge of contributing to your knowledge to ennoble political life through them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u74	To reply, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u75	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr José Manuel Pureza for starting by saying that my reference to "purity" on purpose, of course, was no grace at all, although I recognize him, like all the others. Members of this House, the purity of purposes when we hold these debates and certainly when we do the debates that we will have to do in the committee where possible and which have to do with not only the quality of democracy, but also with the quality of our mandate exercise. I have no doubt that we will all be imbued with this purity of purpose. What I said here was that the process did not start well and that I know - it does. He is born sentencing and I hope that this sending is definitely distant and that this purity of purposes, that we all have to be implicated, will return quickly to the work that we have before us. The honourable Member then raises a question on the issue of exclusivity. It is as simple as this: for people to understand, the Left Block, as, moreover, now in this version, I believe that the Portuguese Communist Party also defends that the exclusive exercise of the mandate of Members is mandatory.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u76	We practice it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u77	However, from my point of view and I maintain this position—it is certainly a debate that we will have in the committee if possible—that exclusivity, not always, but quite often, is reduced with regard to the possibility of this House of the Republic to be able to count on the best of civil society.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u78	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u79	I conclude now, Mr President. In other words, there are many citizens who, if there was such an imposition of exclusivity, would be prevented from making their contribution to politics, to the functioning of the Assembly. This is the debate that we will have to have in the committee as a whole. I must say, Mr José Manuel Pureza, that one of the things we have to see in the committee on this subject is the comparative right to check whether or not there is any singularity in this proposal from the Left Block and the Communist Party. I think there's and it's not acceptable. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u80	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now facing a series of legislative initiatives that seek to introduce new rules into the operation of the political system. There are several initiatives, it is true, but I believe that we can easily identify identical, common purposes, because all of them, in one way or another, seek to credibility in our democratic life. The aim is to make our democracy more transparent, to give it more rigour and more responsibility. The aim is to strengthen the guarantee of a real and effective separation between political power and economic power; it is to walk in the direction of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic which elects the subordination of economic power to political power as a fundamental principle of economic organization. Therefore, the proposals under discussion bring, in our view, necessary and timely measures, especially at a time when a widespread feeling among the Portuguese is perceived in a given subordination of political power to economic power and where political decisions are so often nebulae, because they are not transparent and because the public interest was simply not considered, was not present in the decisions. However, the public interest must be the determining factor, it must be the sole basis of any political decision. If we really want to ensure the presence of public interest in political decisions, there can be, for example, no political office holders, who, at the same time as they exercise their mandate, spend part of their time working for economic and financial groups, which are often even addressed to those decisions. The voters vote for the electors to devote themselves to public affairs, which they deal with, which take care of the public interest. The electors do not vote to ensure that the electors, in the exercise of their mandate, are taking care of private interests. That is why, in this effort to credibility democracy and to ensure the subordination of economic power to political power, it is of decisive importance that the strengthening and extension of the incompatibilities of the holders of political positions and high public positions, but also the clarification of the current rules of the Statute of Members, which has now allowed situations, would say, at least, strange to our democracy, a democracy that is absolutely transparent. On the other hand, it is also recurrent to see the appointment of public managers who then go from « arms and baggage » to private companies, often competitors of companies with public capital, for which they were initially appointed by the Government. These are situations that compromise the defence of the public interest and even mortgage our democracy. That is also why it is necessary to oppose and guard against legislation. The Greens will do their part in this fight, making it possible for proposals which, in our view, can contribute in some way or another to make our democracy healthier and more transparent. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u82	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a number of initiatives on transparency in the exercise of public functions. As we have already said, we believe that this debate should not just be reduced by politicians talking to politicians and deciding on politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u85	Society must be called to this debate, we must be able to hear it and respond to its concerns. We therefore welcome the establishment of a committee for this purpose. We have also made it clear what our principles are for this discussion: we want it to be done without demagogy and populism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u87	When you want to make a suit as a person, you risk that you don’t fit all the others, now it’s too tight, now it’s too wide. On the other hand, we want you to also, of course, remain, for the CDS-PP, the holder of a public office is not an official, whether a public official or a servant party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u89	Thirdly, I wonder what the scope of this debate will be. Will it be just for the Members? For us, we should also look at other entities, including public managers, autoarchs, regulators. We believe that these are positions to be examined. There are a number of questions for which we have to answer and, to be clear, the CDS-PP is not afraid of this debate. Topics such as illicit enrichment are not taboo for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u91	There are several reflections to make: is being political a profession? Should you have a career? So, if this is considered, we will not be admired if, then, if we speak in careers and, above all, when we approve laws that prevent or make it difficult for people with professional curricula and careers to come to politics and exercise public positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u92	Well, that's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u93	To reduce this possibility only to employees, whether partisan or public, is to reduce representativeness. It is true that transparency is a condition for the exercise of politics and making the rules for society as a whole clear and understandable. There are advantages to compiling a clear code of conduct. Not leaving this regime based only on a circumstantial majority is fundamental. To decide, to judge according to circumstances and discretionaryly who can or cannot make politics is to challenge democracy. It is a mistake that a majority can decide who or cannot be their opposition, because this brings into question the very principle of democracy. We are available for a serious debate with all parties, but especially with society. Let's do it! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u94	You have the floor, for an intervention. Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u95	Mr President, I would like to express our strangeness about the CDS-PP intervention which spent a little more than one minute on such a relevant topic and which did not add anything very substantial to the discussion. I would like to make a reference to Mr Marques Guedes on a number of issues. On the one hand, the first legislative initiative on illicit enrichment is the PCP, Bill No. 360 / X( 2 ). ( a ), and not the PSD, Bill No. 374 / X( 2. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u96	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u97	PCP is 360 / X( 2 ). a ) and the PSD is 374 / X( 2. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u98	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u99	The 360 / X( 2. ( a ) precedes 374 / X( 2. ( a)! It is true, yes, Mr Deputy, and it is therefore important to correct it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u100	We've discussed this so many times! Go on as a tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u101	Then the honourable Member says we're putting on a suspect cloak. This is not the case. Unfortunately, anyone who throws a veil of suspicion over political activity is not us. There are too many cases in the national political life of some parties over time that are actually more than justified to address the matter. Reality has shown the need to change the law. We have tried many times to change it, Mr, but unfortunately unsuccessful, because PSD, CDS-PP and PS did not allow it. Let us hope that this time there will indeed be a change to the law. on our part, we see that there is a problem, which is clear as water, of promiscuity between political power and economic power.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u102	Say a name there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u103	of the two, one : either the law has been misapplied, or the law has been clearly insufficient to make this separation. So, what, for us, of course, is that it is necessary to end with the practice of some political parties that promote this promiscuity. The CFP is in this fight in a clear, transparent way, in order to improve our country's legal regime to effectively promote the separation between political power and economic power. This correlation, the promiscuity in which economic power often overlaps with political power, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, mine our democracy. The CFP is in this fight to improve democracy and promote the transparency it has mentioned. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u104	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Jorge Machado is so concerned about the CDS-PP that he then deceives himself and makes mistakes. Fortunately for us, it is we who organize our time, so, as you will see, we will spend it all. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this last speech, I would like above all to clarify and further clarify the position of the CDS-PP and to make it clear that the CDS has full availability for this debate which it considers important, even if necessary, and where it will present projects and proposals to be voted on and not to make a 'number' then go down to the committee. This is a process where the CDS-PP will be with proposals and will therefore vote in favour of the committee which is here proposed by the Socialist Party. It will also do so in accordance with these principles set out by Mr António Carlos Monteiro and, above all, with one that seems essential to us: for the CDS-PP, to hold a public office is not to be a civil servant or a civil servant, nor is it to be a professional career, that is, a necessarily temporary mission for the sake of the country. That's why, sirs. Members, when you fall into the exaggeration, as Mr António Carlos Monteiro has already said, there can be harmful effects and, above all, the Left Block and the CFP have to decide and assume whether you want the honourable Member's career to be the same, a career, which is even the only one, has to take full advantage of. It's not for some careers, it's not for some professions, it's for everyone! Because if you start from a general suspicion that someone who is a member cannot separate your professional career, your training from your votes, then I will show you everything: to teachers, public officials, partisan officials, trade unionists...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u106	The unionists had to come! Death to the unions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u107	That's because, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the subject of public officials, trade unionists and parties. And if we go for suspicion, there may also be conflicts of interest here! That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I say that we will be in this committee of body and soul, without reservation of mind to discuss everything. We congratulate Mr Filipe Neto Brandão's sense of State on expressing his openness to the discussion. But we want it to be done and to be discussed, even, and not just what matters to anyone who wants to discuss. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u108	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u109	Mr President, at the end of this debate we can come to a few conclusions: there are some who go to this committee willingly, in which the Left Block includes, and others who are going to the trailer, of which the CDS is visibly the most uncomfortable. With all the anathemas, with all the demagogy of this intervention, you realize that nothing you want to do. The intervention is expressed and there is no basic position of the CDS on the amendment of the incompatibilities regime. There is a fundamental position against exclusivity, there is no fundamental position on the transparency of politicians and high public positions, there is, yes, a fundamental position that will support the demagogic speech against democracy, and that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u110	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u111	I will finish, Mr. President. The challenge is for us to leave dogmas and there we will have an opening to discuss with all our proposals, which are already mature, with the certainty that they are going through the Constitutional Court and with the assurance that they bring quality to democracy and attack promiscuity. This is our position. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u112	Mrs. Members, we will move on to point 4 of our agenda, which concerns the assessment of Decree-Law No 11 / 2016, of 8 March, which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate charged by the employer in 0, 75 percentage points on contributions relating to remuneration due in February 2016 to January 2017 [ Parliamentary assessment No 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) ]. Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today raises the parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, a diploma which created an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the single social rate ( TSU ) for companies in 0, 75 percentage points. Firstly, it must be said that the CDS has nothing to do with the decline in TSU for companies due to the increase in the national minimum wage and with the aim of preventing a negative reaction to employment. It is not the reduction, in itself, that is at the heart of the CDS disagreement, which gives rise to our strong disagreement is the form of financing the measure. Decree-Law No 11 / 2016, as Mr. Members well know that the financing of this measure is guaranteed, in equal parts, by the State budget and by the social security budget, I repeat, in equal parts by the State budget and by the social security budget, which means that the social security budget, constituted on the basis of the contributions paid by workers, will have the task of supporting 50 % of the financing of this support to employers. This obligation imposed by the Government on the social security budget, from our point of view, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither fair nor right. The CDS, when it had responsibility, always defended, and practiced, what measures such as the CDS should be financed by direct transfer of the State budget. In fact, it was what was clearly expressed in Decree-Law No 154 / 2014 of 20 October, which enshrined that the financing of the same measure was assured, and I quote, « by the State, by way of transfer to the budget of social security», which is very different from what the Government now wants to do. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, secondly, it is necessary to say here that this debate is also about coherence, coherence between what the parties said and did in 2014 and what these same parties say and do in 2016. In 2014 the Left Block spoke in « discount» that the majority made to the bosses;... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u114	... in 2014 the PCP spoke in decapitalizing social security as a currency of exchange; in 2014 the Greens said that the bosses were doing well in the business, because they saw the single reduced social rate, and the state was working to bear those charges. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: And now, with this Decree-Law of your Government, of the Government that you support, who works to bear these charges? We'll see, once again, where your coherence is. Another opportunity to put into practice the maximal « word given, word honored». [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u115	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regarding the issue raised by the CDS-PP, I would like to identify what has been done, which was the enforcement of the law. Decree-Law No 367 / 2007, which establishes the legal framework for financing the social security system and regulates the Basic Social Security Act, defines that the loss or reduction of revenue associated with measures to stimulate employment and increase jobs is financed by 50% by State transfers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u117	That's what's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u118	That's what's in the law! What was done in this Decree-Law was simply to comply with the rules governing the financing of the Basic Social Security Act. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If, conceptually, the previous Government did not agree with this, then it should have amended Decree-Law No 367/2007. So this is a question that I think should not even be put in this context. The Socialist Party, in this Decree-Law, has only complied with the rules for financing social security that are laid down in the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u119	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Long time goes when the CDS had a youth of "blood in the barn" that it was reporting against the existence of the national minimum wage. Of course, you remember those communiqués. With regard to the value of four hundred euros, the youth of the CDS said: why impose a limit if there are employers who want to pay less and there are workers who are desperate enough not to say that they are not? Oh, my God! It was the CDS idea! The minimum wage delays the economy, said Popular Youth. Today, the CDS is different, it's just soft falsifiers, it's the trick of the social, it's the way who knows you have to go looking for other niches. And they look at themselves and they say: "My mirror, my mirror, will there be anyone more bolder than I in the proposals that I put to Parliament? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you accept advice, leave numbers! The rise of the national minimum wage was a founding commitment of the new existing majority and it only sins because it was beyond what is necessary. What was the CDS proposal, increasing the minimum wage in its programme? Zero! What does the CDS say when bosses challenge the rise of the minimum wage? Either echo the bosses or shut up. Is the CDS here today in the House: the discounts in the TSU, which the government gave to the employers, in compensation for the rise of the national minimum wage, should be paid by social security or taxpayers? What is more fair: the discount on employers is paid by workers, through taxes, or by workers, through social security? The CDS has had an epiphany: it wants Parliament to say which is the best of both solutions. The answer from the Left Block is simple: neither one nor the other! Don't count on us for that movie! Who must pay the minimum wage increase are the employers, unique and exclusively the bosses! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Only employers must support the increase in the minimum wage! No taxes, no social security, no discounts! Remuneration of work is a duty of the employer. And don't tell us, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the value of €530 is a fortune! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u121	You have the floor, too, for one speech, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP comes here today to talk about coherence, comes here today to talk about a contribution rate for social security. The CDS, in the exercise of this coherence, says that the PS is decapitalizing social security. The CDS, with this initiative, may even want to reduce the enormous waste it has had throughout this and the last few weeks in the discussion on this subject, accusing the PS of exactly what the CDS and PSD have done throughout the last government. The CDS is a champion of the increase in the national minimum wage with this initiative and its explanatory statement. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have memory and shame in our face.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u123	They don't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u124	The Government of the Socialist Party, between 2005 and 2011, increased the national minimum wage by about 30 % by 110, 30 €. The former Government of the former majority increased the minimum wage by €20 throughout the entire legislature; this Government, with the majority who founded it, has already increased the minimum wage by €25. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be ashamed of your face! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have not received lessons on the right in terms of protecting workers' incomes and increasing the national minimum wage, but we have not received lessons on social consultation. The CDS, as the PSD has already done here in this House, has been presenting itself as a champion of social consultation. One more time, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have memory and shame in our face, something that you have not had in this matter. You were champions of social ruin, you were champions of the lack of social dialogue, you were champions of the attacks on the unions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u125	And the gentlemen were champions of bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u126	...you were champions of the punishment of workers, of the rupture of the social agreement we had in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the medals that can bring to the shoulders, when we talk about this matter, but they are not the medals that the PS wants to follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u128	But you are still trying to present yourself in this debate and in this discussion as champions of social security and protection of social security. Mrs. Members, you have no shame, you have no memory, but we have: you have certainly forgotten your proposal for partial privatization of social security, the ceiling on social security, to deliver public funds to private funds. We refuse, because we defend public social security and at the service of the country, which you did not want to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But there's more, sirs. Members: Throughout the last government, the rumb of emigration and unemployment, caused by your ideological fanaticism, have caused a loss of more than EUR 8 billion in social security. Between 2012 and 2015, the government budget transfers to cover the deficit in the social security welfare system that you created were over EUR 4500 million thanks to the fanaticism of your economic policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u130	By 2016, with the reversal of the current government's cycle and economic policy, we already have a decline of EUR 235 million. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have shame, memory and action. [[PSD protests.]] In view of the demagogy of the CDS on this initiative, it should be noted that we can only discuss this matter here today, because the Socialist Party has increased the national minimum wage and made a new social agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is an agreement with advantages in the increase in wages, in the cohesion of the country, in the sustainability of social security and in the competitiveness of companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u131	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u132	I therefore end with a question addressed to the Secretary of State for Social Security, in order to know whether we can take stock of this measure and of the universe of workers and companies currently covered by it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u133	Even for an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the parliamentary appraisal initiative presented by the CDS. in this regard, we must essentially highlight two aspects, the first of which is that the PSD welcomes the increase in the national minimum wage. This is a measure that will greatly benefit all workers and social security itself. And to remember, the previous government also increased the national minimum wage to €505 in 2014 as soon as the troika left the country. The Socialist Partymen promised - in 2006 and froze - in 2010, and the crisis had not yet been announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u135	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u136	Therefore, as regards principle, we all agree, we all welcome the rise of the national minimum wage, but for us and for the former government, always in the context of social dialogue, meeting and talking with the partners, a procedure that this Government has not had. You speak in champions, but you will never be the champions of social concert. You are, yes, bankruptcy champions and therefore I leave this record in your championship. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] The second aspect is that any discussion around these matters, in which it is discussed if the payer is the State budget or the social security budget, should be very cautious and prudent, because the social security budget cannot be the payer of all government policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u137	It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u138	... can't be the payer of urban rehabilitation, can't be the payer of all the increase of the minimum wage that comes around. Work discounts must be the guarantor of the payment of social benefits. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have announced the turn of the austerity page, let me tell you that the austerity page has not yet turned, and it is not just us who say it, the Portuguese feel it. The forecasts that you reflect, of 1 8% growth, are doubtful and INE data also say that unemployment continues to rise. But if VV. Today you would see, like me, that the challenges and criticisms to the current government, as well as the praise to the government of the past, are not only made by this bench, the Secretary of State, are made by independent figures...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u139	Very independent! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u140	...that certainly appear to pride our work. Maybe that's why the Portuguese made us win the elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u141	Before giving the floor to Mrs Rita Rato, for an intervention, I would like to remind you that the election of the representatives of the PS and BE parliamentary groups to the National Education Council is taking place in Chamber D. Maria, so all Members and all Members. Members may exercise their right to vote in the next few minutes. Now, yes, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have heard all the time the argument that labour costs in our country are very high and call into question the competitiveness of companies. False! Nothing more false! Otherwise, we see: data disclosed by the Ministry of Economy conclude that between 2011 and 2014 the average nominal net remuneration of private sector workers decreased by 5 %, 7 % but, given the effect of rising prices, the reduction of purchasing power was 11 %. The latest data made available by Eurostat conclude that in 2012 labour costs in Portugal were only 53, 1 % of the average in the European Union and 46, 9 % of the average in the euro area countries. The same source says that the average wage in Portugal is only 56, 4 % of the average wage in the European Union and 51, 2 % of the average wage in the euro area countries. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we note that in our country the contributions paid by employers are far below the average of the countries of the European Union, both in relation to the neighbouring countries of Portugal, such as Greece, Spain and Italy. In Portugal, contributions paid by employers represent only 72 % of the European Union's average. That said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we note as important, but insufficient, the increase in the national minimum wage. It remains one of the lowest national minimum wages in the euro area. For all this, the CFP reaffirms its opposition to maintaining the reduction of the single social rate for employers as an exchange currency for the insufficient increase in the national minimum wage. Firstly, because it decapitalizes social security, secondly, because it uses public money to finance the employer's practice of low wages and, thirdly, because it encourages the continuation of a policy of low wages and precarious work. We understand that this is a perverse mechanism that leads to the freezing of wages and bets on a model of low wages that has ensured the counterpart of the reduction of the single social rate for employers. The reduction of the single social rate for employers paying the national minimum wage is an incentive to maintain the payment of the minimum wage, because they always get as a currency of exchange the reduction of the single social rate. from the PCP, we will continue to defend the increase in wages, including the increase in national minimum wage, guaranteeing the dignity in the lives of all workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the PCP, we will present to the Bureau a draft resolution for the cessation of the validity of the Decree-Law under consideration, because we believe that this measure of descent of the single social rate for the employer should be repealed. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u143	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point of our agenda, you will therefore give the floor...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u144	Mr President, may I ask the Bureau about the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u145	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u146	Mr President, it has been agreed — again, in particular in the previous debate, that agreement has been fulfilled — which is the party that proposes the evaluation which closes the debate. So if anyone else subscribes, we obviously do not register for that very reason, because we are waiting for the remaining inscriptions. It's just to clarify.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u147	Mr Nuno Magalhães, just to clarify, there is now a government registration and, of course, the CDS will close the debate. However, since the other benches still have time available, I would like to know if there are any more inscriptions, because, if not, I will immediately give the floor to the government. [[Pause.]] Since no one else joins, then I will give the floor to Mrs. Secretary of State for Social Security and then to Mr. Filipe Lobo d’Ávila. You have the floor, Secretary of State for Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I always doubt when I hear the PSD and the CDS about what was their position in the Memorandum initially signed with the troika. We have already heard that they fully agreed with the Memorandum and would still go further; then they agreed with some measures and did not agree with others; and then, still throughout the period, they negotiated some measures and implemented them and others did not. But there is one thing that we are sure of: during these four years, you have never negotiated or tried to negotiate the minimum wage update measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was under great pressure that they negotiated with the social partners the update of the minimum wage in 2014. For us, the Socialist Party and the Government, this update is essential and it is the first one that matters to do, but this year it has been possible. To make this minimum wage update, we negotiated with the social partners and negotiated the maintenance of a measure that had been agreed and introduced in 2014 by the previous government, but when we looked at its scope, we found that last year only 107 000 employers benefited from it. this year, 182 000 employers have already been notified that they can benefit from the measure, i.e. 69 % more. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Last year, 231,000 workers were covered by this measure; this year, 341 000 workers, i.e. more than 47 %, can benefit from this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u150	This is also a difference from the previous Government. But the most important here is the increase of €25 in the minimum wage, because this increase, for companies that had already reduced the single social rate in the previous year, would represent an increase of €30, which is why we consider it important to maintain that reduction of the single social rate. However, we must have some consistency: the Socialist Party simply applied the legislation that is in force. If the CDS did not agree with this legislation, if the CDS did not agree that 50 % of the employment support measures were financed with contributions, it had amended the decree on social security financing, because it should be respected and regulated by the Basic Law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nevertheless, we have found that, with the increase in the minimum wage made this year, we have a net positive entry, an increase in the contribution to social security of EUR 60 million in a single year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u151	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor now to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I appreciate the speeches you have made, although some of them have aroused some perplexity. In fact, Mr. José Soeiro, in 2014, spoke in exchange currency—in fact, the PCP and the Left Block spoke in discount to the bosses—but today they don't say anything, they say zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u153	We just said! We're against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u154	Are you ashamed? Oh, my God! Whoever didn't have or has no shame is not the CDS ; who didn't have or is ashamed is who in 2014 said one thing and now, in 2016, does another. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Secretary of State speaks in the Memorandum of Troika. Who called the troika was the Socialist Party, who signed the Memorandum with the Troika was the Socialist Party, who led the country to bankruptcy was the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] It's good to have memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u155	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u156	Whoever frozen the national minimum wage was not the CDS, the Secretary of State, was the Socialist Party, it was the government of which his Minister of Social Security was a member. Therefore, the Secretary of State, who speaks of the Basics of Social Security Act, should remember that the first time such a measure has been approved, it was financed 100 % by the State budget. It is good that this situation is clear and that, above all, all parties in this House demonstrate clearly, transparently and with memory, the position they will take on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u157	Before we move on to the last item on our agenda before the vote and recalling the vote that is taking place, in Chamber D. Maria, for the National Council of Education, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Pedro Alves, to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u158	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates access to administrative information and reuse of administrative documents, including in environmental matters, transposing Directive 2003 / 4 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on public access to environmental information, and Directive 2003 / 98 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 as amended by Directive 2013 / 37 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the reuse of information by the public sector, which falls below 1. the Commission, with connection to 11. the Commission ; motion for a resolution No 3 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Approves the withdrawal of the reservation under Article 10 ( g ). the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for the Exploration of Meteorological Satellites ( EUMETSAT ), adopted at Darmstadt on 1 December 1986, which falls to 2. the Commission ; Bill No 156 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Safeguarding the regularisation of livestock and other holdings by extending the period laid down in Decree-Law No 165 / 2014 ( PS ), which falls to 6. a and 7. the Committees ; and Parliamentary assessment No 14 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 15 / 2016 of 9 March establishing the strategic coordination of the Lisbon Port Administration, SA, and the Administration of the Ports of Setúbal and Sesimbra, SA ( PCP ). The draft resolutions 223 / XIII ( 1 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the implementation of the mitigating measures relating to the transport and storage of oil coke in the port of Aveiro and the monitoring of environmental quality ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 224 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reduce by at least 50 % the cost of tolls in A22 until the works of EN125 are completed ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 225 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide guidance to the Tax Administration to interpret Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). that of the VAT code in order to consider exempt from payment of this tax the genetic paternity tests ( PSD ), which goes down to 5. the Commission, 226 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the adoption by the Portuguese State of a national and international action plan for the extinction of offshore centres ( CFP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 227 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a technical unit for the clearance of beneficiaries of financial flows that have read the national bank ( CFP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 228 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of structured support for informal caregivers as well as the creation of the status of informal caregiver ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, with connection to 10. the Commission, 229 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to encourage the development of university sport ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 230 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to improve the qualification of Portuguese ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 231 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Emergency intervention in EN4, at Atalaia / Pegões ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Members, let us turn to point 5, the last item on the agenda before the votes, with the joint debate, in general, of the drafts of lein. 124 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Data Sharing Legal Regime ( PCP ), 151 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensures the exercise of the rights of users as enshrined in the Code of Copyright and Related Rights ( BE ). To present the PCP bill, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u160	Mr. President, Mr.ase Srs. Members : Decriminalizing the sharing of all cultural content, ensuring the fair remuneration of authors and creators, allowing, to those who wish to do so, the maintenance of a regime of protection and prohibition of access to the sharing of goods on which it is the holder of rights, to comply with the constitutional principle of freedom of use and cultural creation is what the CFP proposes. The CFP again brings to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic the subject of computer data sharing because the reality so demands. And reality is overwhelming: every time we access the Internet and use the various digital tools the most sure thing is to find out about the sharing of computer data and protected content. Basically, with a certain type of sharing, which is what we want here to address with this initiative: the uninterested and non-commercial sharing that has been affirmed as a daily social practice. That being the case, you have to understand how to deal with this phenomenon. As for the CFP, we argue that it is necessary to view non-commercial sharing as legitimate, as an element that allows the democratization of access to culture and constitutes an incentive to cultural production itself, in respect for the fair remuneration of authors and creators.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u162	This latter aspect is important, because this overwhelming reality of the proliferation of content and works in the network as a repeated and socially accepted social practice, just as it is today, determines that who has actually come to profit from the provision of a considerable collection of contents that generate interest and curiosity on the part of users is not who shares and are not also the authors and creators. They are, in fact, Internet service providers. Why? Because your product, Internet service, makes sense only if it is filled with user-appealing content. Therefore, what the CFP proposes is precisely the operators who profit, who value themselves and who, in practice, appropriate themselves from part of the wealth produced by the artists to support the remuneration of the latter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u163	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u164	It is unacceptable that the business model of large distributors and publishers is based on obsolete concepts that, to a certain extent, are undermining the freedom of users and contributing to the establishment of hyper-vigilant practices and digital censorship. Let us go back to the heart of the question: should authors, creators or should they not be compensated for sharing their work? Because the sharing of protected content exists, we enter daily through our eyes and ears. And it will continue, because the evolution of the digital context is continuous and creativity in this environment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there's plenty. Now or if the prohibition of sharing and non-remuneration of authors and artists is hypocritically maintained, or we are moving to the rules of sharing and we guarantee the authors' remuneration, which, at the moment, does not really exist. Sharing cannot be a crime and an Internet user and digital resources cannot, by default, be considered criminal. Today, we have the opportunity to respond to the shortcomings and contradictions of the current legal framework that governs the subject we bring here. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u165	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal that the Left Block brings to debate is not new, in past legislative sessions we had quite extensive periods of dialogue between the benches. However, as there are new Members and as this is a new moment in Portuguese policy, it is appropriate to explain it and try to remove some ghosts from the table. We all know what it can be like to buy a CD, for example, get home, put it on the device or even try to put it in the car and it doesn't work, purely and simply because there is a mechanism that was introduced by those who put that CD on sale and that serves to protect copyright, but that conflicts with the consumer's rights to legitimately have access to a work and be able to enjoy it, having paid for it, having complied with all the legal rules to have access to its content. This mechanism is such a DRM that prevents him from having access to the content of the work he acquired. What the Left Block wants is that the individual who is faced with this problem and has to overcome is not convicted of illegality because, for example, it went to the Internet to resolve the matter. It is because this being the concrete reality, within the currently existing law, would have to go to the IGAC (General Inspection of Cultural Activities) and ask for the way to overcome the blockade, which often does not have the IGAC itself, despite the law saying that whoever has the works for sale should give the IGAC release. However, bureaucracy can be an impediment, and it is often overcome by access to the Internet, to currently illegitimate forms, in order to unlock access to this work. We want the illegality to end in this matter, that is, those who have legally bought a work can have access to it, even if they exceed those DRMs and, in doing so, do not go into breach of legality. Some will say: «But this will attack copyright as a whole and attack the existence of DRM. Do not keep on seeking. ” There are divergent opinions, even in this area within the Left Block, there is indeed the result of a bill that has nothing to do with this debate, in particular. What is intended, only and only, is to defend the right of those who have legally bought a work and is, by the existence of DRM, prevented from enjoying it. There is another aspect in the bill that seeks to avoid the privatization of works of intellectual property already open to the public. We intend that works of Eça de Queiros, for example, or matters that are no longer protected by copyright because the corresponding years have passed and that are now under the public domain can be maintained as such and that no artificial impediments are applied by those who, to the lack of creation, want to seek what has been done in the past, impediments, those that no longer aim at reversing what is now, by law, public. We do not want any of us — who should legitimately have access to these aspects — to be prevented from doing so. These are the two aspects of the Left Block diploma that should be of great pleasure to all the benches and that we hope they can make their way in a short time. I now announce that the diploma will be lowered to its committee, without a vote, so that we can do the debate in an extended way and receive the contributions of all the banks. I insist, however, on this point: we are currently defending the rights of all of us with regard to access to works that are in the public domain and, therefore, this right cannot be diminished, it must be safeguarded — it is one of the aspects we want to put — and on the other hand, we are defending access to whom it has legitimately paid for a work and whether it enjoys as the commercial relationship says it has a right. On this subject, I also think that we should quickly legislate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u167	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ex.Ms Members and Ex.Ms Members: Today, this House is called again to examine two diplomas that have already been appreciated in the previous Parliament. Both the PCP diploma and the Left Block diploma propose the same legal solutions that were rejected in the previous legislation. Ex.Ms Members and Ex.Ms Members, the PSD believes that this matter is complex and requires a broader approach, and so this week it required the setting up of a working group to address these and other matters related to the Digital Single Market, with the same rigour as they deserve. We now welcome the decision by the Left Block to lower its diploma to its committee, because we believe that we will be able to analyse these matters with the same rigour as they require. It is appropriate to say, however, that the rush is the enemy of perfection and that for the PSD reforms are not done with PowerPoint.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u170	PSD is not indifferent to the new challenges posed by the Internet and new technologies. We, social democrats, always advocate the need for more active participation in the construction of the Single Digital Market, in line with the European agenda. For us, the discussion of these issues is fundamental. The world economy is rapidly becoming digital and Portugal cannot remain indifferent to this opportunity and to this market of 500 million people. Nor can the House of Democracy remain indifferent to this opportunity to be at the legislative forefront of these matters. The difficulties that the Internet places on copyright are known and all technological innovations have historically put in place. In 1920, the music industry complained about the radio; in 1940, the film industry complained about television; in 1950, television complained about cable TV; then the video cassettes and DVDs appeared. Currently and with the Internet, any citizen can easily share files, songs, texts and, even, receive threats of slaps, away from a click. Look what we've come to! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u171	Look that you still have to pay copyright!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u172	The idea of taxing the use of the Internet is not a new idea. The island of Man was the first territory to announce a fee, adding to the Internet connection by users. However, for the PSD there are other possible political and legal approaches to solving this problem. The PSD advocates a solution that ensures a balance between copyright and the right to free access to culture. The PCP model, by granting an Internet access tax paid by suppliers, is not an appropriate model and establishes an unfair tax. It is not an appropriate model, because it calls into question the international treaties and the law of the European Union on this matter; it is an unfair tax, because all users will end up paying the bill of access to the Internet and sharing, whether they do so or not. It is a counter-cyclical measure with the rest of the world walking to free access to the Internet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u173	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u174	We could not finish this intervention without remembering Francisco Sá Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u175	That big internet user!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u176	For Sá Carneiro: "In democracy everything must be simple and relative and nothing should be seen without the sense of proportion and without a minimal sense of humor. But nothing can be dealt with and, above all, resolved without the sense of reality». File sharing has become a cultural and social practice of the daily lives of millions of people. PSD is available to view this reality, PSD is available to seize this opportunity and contribute to the solution of the problem. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u177	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Sousa has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: No political force in this Parliament can ignore that the draft laws of the Left Block and of the PCP under consideration address matters of great complexity in a market in constant technological and legislative updating. It should be noted that the proposal from the CFP, today the vote, was already tabled two years ago, and was generally rejected by the Socialist Party. The same structure, philosophy, the same solutions are maintained today, and therefore the reasons invoked by the Socialist Party at the time remain: in our perspective, this project raises many problems, not solving the existing challenges. The purpose of the PCP bill is positive: it aims to ensure the dissemination and cultural use and is inspired by a formula identical to that found for the exception to the right of reproduction, the so-called "private copy", but overturns the concept, because it lacks the legitimacy of the original work from which copies are made, contrary to Community jurisprudence and placing Portugal in breach. We all know that intellectual cultural creators will only be able to invest in their creativity as a means of subsistence the effort of their intellectual work protected against generalized free appropriation. And they have been the main victims of this technological revolution. For this reason, the international legislator dedicated protection to works protected by copyright the statute of intellectual property. However, the proposal of the CFP, by replacing the exclusive right to authorize or prohibit the provision of works to the public by a mere fair remuneration right conflicts with the nature of that same right and calls into question principles of fair international copyright protection such as the absence of formal requirements that are necessary for the protection triggered by mere fact of creation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u179	It also seems to us a factor of injustice to make depend on the legality of file sharing of a word to be charged to the ISP (Internet service provider), a fixed amount equal for each subscriber, whether or not they use the contents to be paid, regardless of the amount of works they consume. Moreover, since the Internet territory is a space that goes far beyond the logic of national legislation, this is precisely the focus of the problems and challenges we face, this bill is regional and unilateral, not taking into account the harmonisation that the European authorities are making, in particular in modernising copyright in the context of the digital agenda. The Socialist Party believes that there is a need for systematic weighting and a solution considered in the broader context of these institutions, particularly in the international intellectual property organization. As for the draft law of the Left Block, we admit the possibility of prompt measures to prevent technological restrictions on fallen works in the public domain. It is important to realize the serious implications that the introduction of digital restrictions in public works leads to public services, such as libraries.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u180	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u181	I will finish, Mr. President. We are available to discuss this subject within the Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u182	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we hold today in this House, the last full but not least important week, is, as we have already seen, not consensual, but deserves, on the part of all parliamentary groups, serious, calm and thoughtful reflection, since the wonders of technological evolution often have a more difficult and much less virtuous side. The question cannot, nor should it be, be summed up by those who are apparently on one side and those who are apparently on the other. Don't! The problem exists, it is not entirely simple and will force us all to deal with it. However, there is one thing that the CDS does not abdicate and that ultimately lies in the philosophical concessions that will always oppose this bench to a certain radical left. And that's it, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the authors, distributors, publishers, producers, among others, cannot be expropriated from the product of their work. With this, with the right of ownership sacrifice, the CDS does not compact and will never compact. But the CDS also knows that it is necessary to find a balance point that satisfies the legitimate aspirations and interests of the authors and others concerned, but that it does not inhibit the circulation and innovation in cyberspace, one of the social, cultural and economic engines of any society that wants to be modern and advanced and, above all — and "mostly" — when what is concerned are digital editions of works in the public domain or publications of academic research, but not as the CFP always propagates and begs. what the CFP does not tire of calling « marketing of culture », we call « democratization of culture »,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u184	...for all of the spectra and quadrants,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u186	... freely chosen by whom she wishes to enjoy, but justly rewarded to whom she wants it and can offer it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u187	Explain that better!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u188	It is in the confrontation of these two interests that freedom of cultural creation and the rights associated with it, namely the protection of copyright and the protection of the enjoyment and cultural creation, both constitutionally protected, that we should not forget, that we should find the most consensual solution and that we should protect both without exceptions. Moreover, if the intention is also to combat digital piracy, an absolutely truthful and worthy goal, this is certainly not the way to do it. In fact, except for the obvious exaggeration, it almost seems that we are legalizing digital piracy by charging it, which is serious. And for that we are not available! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u189	That's not serious! The CDS doesn't think so, if you think so!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u190	In addition to the obvious problem of treating everything equally, avoiding contractual and market freedoms, quantitative differences and uncertainty and complicated updating. This is different, and I have already said it here, to discuss, in depth and serenely, some distortions that the law in force presents. If it is absolutely legitimate to impose restrictions on the use of copyrighted works, even if those who acquire them are aware of the restrictions imposed on them, it is no less true that the protection that the law confers on them often with the legitimate and legal uses which the same law provides, above all, repeat, as regards works in the public domain or academic research. The CDS is therefore available to discuss this issue. The CDS is available to study the issues that the Left Block proposes, in a broad and broad debate, which extends to the walls of this House, involving stakeholders, politicians and civil society. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is of all benefit to everyone, only in this way can a solution be reached that preserves all rights in the presence, both I repeat, constitutionally consecrated. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u191	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to review a little what was the beginning of our intervention. We began by saying: « (...) to ensure the fair remuneration of authors and creators, to allow, to whom it so wishes, the maintenance of the protection regime and the prohibition of access to the sharing of the goods on which it owns rights; ». We expect this, and it's good to be clear. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the CFP, with this initiative, has put an opportunity on the table to give effective response to problems that, if there is no intervention, will continue to make itself felt. If there is room for improvement in the proposal we bring here? There's no doubt about it! I would like the House to understand this and to choose to improve this specialization initiative, and we are available to bring it down to the Commission without a vote. Now, we have to do something. A recent study reveals that at least 15 % of young Portuguese people use sources called ‘illegal origin’, without even suspecting it, while 23 % do not know, is unsure and has no idea whether the content they access is illegal or not. Now, if young people, who are the most proficient and informed population of the use of digital tools, are in this situation, what will the rest of the population do? So, what are we gonna do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u193	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u194	I shall conclude, Mr President. Is it an option to sanction the majority of the population because of this? Oh, my God! No, and yet the sharing continues and the authors are not properly remunerated. We are in the 21st century, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot address this matter from the point of view of the methods and a reality of the 20th century. It is necessary to take a bold but firm step in the direction of the massification of culture,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Member, but you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u196	... of cultural access and use, ensuring, we reaffirm, that authors and artists are paid by sharing, a socially accepted and integrated practice that will undoubtedly continue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u197	We have thus concluded this point on our agenda and we will enter the voting period. Mrs. Members, while the services prepare the terminals so that we can register, for the purpose of deliberation quorum, I give the floor to Mr Secretary, to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau within the framework of Parliament's opinion No 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March ( CDS-PP ), proposed amendments submitted by the CDS-PP and draft resolution No 234 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate by the employer, in 0, 75 percentage points, on contributions relating to remuneration due in February 2016 to January 2017 ( PCP ). At the request of the CFP Parliamentary Group, this draft resolution will be included in today's vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u199	Mrs. Members, there are 201 registered Members, according to the electronic framework. I wonder if anyone has been able to register. [[Pause.]] Mr Mariana Mortágua ( BE ) and Mr João Barata Lopes ( PSD ) are added, making 203 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall therefore begin the votes. We have a number of votes on various deliberations on the European Union's policy for refugees and migrants, the deportation of refugees to Turkey, the European Union agreement with Turkey, and it has been combined among the parliamentary groups that, before voting, each parliamentary group had two minutes to intervene. So you have the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents this conviction vote when more than 200 people have already been deported to Turkey and today more than 140 people will have the same destination. Having been the Left Block, from the outset, against the shameful agreement signed between the European Union and Turkey, a few days from the start of its application is in view of its result: to aggravate the situation in which these people, fleeing war and death, are at European borders. The result of this agreement means, above all, two things: firstly, that the European Union admits, in this way, the failure to reach a joint and humanitarian solution and, secondly, that we have a duty to accept and to assist all who ask for asylum, thereby moving them away to another country for Turkey. We believe that, on behalf of international law, in the name of solidarity, in the name of the most basic human rights defence, we must reject the deportation of persons seeking help for Turkey. It is urgent to stop ignoring what is happening at the borders of Greece, Macedonia, Hungary, Poland, among many others. With this agreement and these deportations the European Union blows to the side, while every day the most basic human rights at the borders that are closest to us, including in France, in Calais. It is therefore essential to condemn the deportations that have happened so far to more than 200 people and so many others that will follow. In fact, we have the courage to listen to UNHCR ( United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ) and to the various NGOs (non-governmental organizations) that work in the field every day, activists who are in Greece, but above all, to listen to those and those who come from these countries asking for help. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u201	To speak, you now have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Men, women and children seek every day to reach the European continent to find refuge before the war, death and poverty imposed on them as a result of processes of interference, destabilization and external aggression that have benefited from the convivence and responsibilities of the European Union. Once they have reached Europe and the countries of the European Union, instead of being welcomed in accordance with the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, they face degrading and inhumane reception conditions which have worsened with the implementation of the European Union-Turkey Agreement. An agreement containing unacceptable measures that have already been questioned by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which offers counterparts, including financial ones, to Turkey to play the role of buffer against refugees and migrants who seek to reach the European continent and who deserve the most vehement rejection and rejection by the CFP. While welcoming the positive signs that the Portuguese Government has given in response to the humanitarian tragedy, the CFP does not follow the Executive's position to cover the European Union's refugee policy. The CFP has never supported the European Union-Turkey Agreement and continues to reject it, unlike other parties, including PSD and CDS-PP, who not only welcome such agreement as they have supported its implementation, including its financing. The CFP reaffirms the need for policies for refugees and migrants, which respect the principles of the United Nations Charter, and expresses its solidarity with all peoples who are victims of foreign interference and aggression, in particular the Syrian people, who today constitute the bulk of the refugee and displaced contingent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u203	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u204	The CFP calls for the end of policies of interference and aggression against sovereign States and respect for the sovereignty and independence of States.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u205	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u206	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the CFP calls for the right of peoples, self-determination and development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u207	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u208	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the CDS accompanies, solidarity and dismay, the humanitarian tragedy which unfortunately continues to occur in the Mediterranean before our eyes. Counterbanders and traffickers continue to resort cruelly to the despair of men and women seeking a new life, simply fleeing from a fratricidal war and seeking to protect the most precious good, often, which is the good of life. The size of this problem and this tragedy, we have always said it, called for and demanded a global, coordinated and speedy European response. Unfortunately, it has not always been this way, it has not always been global, it has not always been coordinated and, much less, speedy. Europe, in our view, the European Union has been, in this regard, to say the least, too hesitant, fearsome and sometimes even omits what strikes us and what is happening many times before our eyes. But we do not fail to recognize that in recent times solutions have been sought, solutions that are also going through a neighbourhood policy and partnership agreements. And they also go through certain measures that can regulate these flows and, in particular, prevent the lucrative and heinous business of these same traffickers. This is why the CDS solidarity and, of course, deplores all this tragedy, but what the CDS does is not about it and about votes to try to make political statements against the European Union and NATO, as did the Left Block and the PCP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u209	That is why, Mr President, we put forward a vote of solidarity, where we very vehemently clarify that, of course, we are not only in solidarity with these people as we urge the European Union to do more and better.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u210	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u211	I'm done now, Mr. President. But there is one thing that needs to be made clear here: the conduct of Portuguese foreign policy lies solely with the Government — Article 182. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic —... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u212	... and to the parties of the Government, which must support, must face up to this Portuguese foreign policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u213	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u214	Now, this agreement signed by Dr. Tsipras and Dr. António Costa has the chance of Dr. Catarina Martins, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa and, of course, also of the Socialist Party, whose vote is different and will therefore have a different vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u215	It's the vote of political Chicana!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u216	He's always running away for the dance!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u217	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u218	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, Europe faces the greatest humanitarian challenge on its borders since World War II. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u219	It is undeniable that not only are there challenges at the external level, as at the European Union's own internal level, with the galloping growth of populism, xenophobia, fascism, Nazism and attacks that are unacceptable, European construction and the values of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We cannot let the refugee crisis be a pretext for empowering those of us who want to spread hatred and want to spread and introduce the pernicious virus of hate to each other or who, in their view, is not ours. Therefore, on a particularly complex issue, in which resource mobilization, the ability to help resolve conflicts that are at the root of the migration problem and the refugee problem, certainly cannot dispense complex solutions and discussions and that often do not feel sorry for simple moments and simple analyses at the moment. That is why we propose and want, with all clarity, to be assertive as to what is on the table. There is an agreement between the European Union and Turkey, not the perfect agreement, it is certainly not the agreement that any Member of this House would subscribe if he had the opportunity to draw up by his own hand, by his own hand. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u220	No one in this House, and I withdraw this from the words that the CDS has just said, would be in full accordance with what is written in that international agreement, but it is the possible agreement and it is the agreement that, within the great limitations, the Portuguese Government has endeavoured to ensure, including, the forecasting of respect for international asylum and refugee law, by the law of the European Union, by ensuring that anyone can resort to the decision that may possibly be taken, if it is not considered to be covered by asylum provisions, and the mobilisation of the entire apparatus of the rule of law, which is what characterizes the European Union and which characterizes our States. Unfortunately — we have reached this vote, we have reached this point, unfortunately, and it is not the word of two or three people, it is a word of credit, with authority, that is the UNHCR that says so — there is a violation of the Agreement, there are situations that do not correspond to what this commitment has been translated into, difficult to implement and ensure. So today, here, we condemn all those who insist on failing to comply with the Agreement, who insist on not recognizing that there are values and principles of the rule of law that have to be respected so that this Agreement can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u221	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u222	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have made a commitment and it is important to continue to work towards improving the Agreement, it is important not to lose sight of it and not to throw it away. There are things that, not being totally positive, represent an advance and the diplomatic diligence of the Portuguese State, the diligence of the other partners of the European Union, who, with us, share this vision, cannot surely be neglected if we will in fact fail to see the scope of what we are going to do today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u223	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u224	That is why we cannot follow those who criticize the Agreement, totally rejecting it, even though we realize that there is a lot of work to be done and this condemnation of those who do not do it is, in fact, fundamental. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u225	Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u226	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, Portugal has had an exemplary position in this area, with political consensus, focused on supporting asylum-seekers who arrive in Europe. on this subject, the former Government and the present Government have honoured the values of Portuguese society well and have expressed, with great dignity, the most basic and singular European values. People fleeing Europe flee war, flee poverty, run away from crazy bombs, both in the Middle East and in the heart of Europe. We cannot allow the problem of refugees to be used as a weapon of political blackmail, neither by Member States, nor by Turkey to obtain benefits and facilities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u227	... and much less we can allow this problem to be used by those who want to undermine the European project. on this issue, Europe cannot play the role of hostage either, it must take the political initiative, it must be more agile and learn from mistakes. Europe cannot confuse migrants with refugees either. The Agreement with Turkey is as urgent as it is; it needs to be corrected, but always with a focus on human rights and international law. What this Agreement cannot do is to clear up political setbacks in Turkey on human rights and freedom of the press. The problem of refugees requires an urgent, more urgent and pragmatic response, but also another response through development cooperation. Europe must decide, once and for all, what it wants and how it wants to act, what it can and what it should do. The stabilization of these countries is fundamental and not only is it done with the spring of tomorrows that sing and much less by the force of the bombs. Europe can and should insist on the reconstruction of these States, the stability of political jurisdictions and their development. Europe and the Member States today are paying the price of their inability to have an international strategy to influence global geopolitics. The deepening of neighbourhood policy with States such as Turkey and how the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is urgent, but also after Greece, pressure increases, decisively over countries such as Italy, and answers need to be found. We Europeans, but above all Portuguese, are not enough to criticize Europe or the Agreement with Turkey, we are Europe, we are part of the European Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u228	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u229	I'm done now, Mr. President. Portugal is sitting at the European Council. The European strategy is also made by Portuguese, and we can contribute to the European strategy. The problem of refugees cannot serve as a weapon for xenophobic and racist movements, but above all, we must not let it serve, serve as a weapon of destruction of European dream by those who, inside, are anti-Europeanists. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u230	For one last speech on the votes, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u231	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, when we speak in the thousands of men, women and children who seek to reach Europe it is necessary to bear in mind that these people, these thousands of human beings are fleeing the war, are fleeing to death and therefore do what any one of us would do in the same circumstances: they seek a solution for their own survival and for the survival of their families. But it is also necessary to bear in mind that the threats these people are seeking to escape in many cases result from situations of shameful interference and destabilization with the complicity of the European Union against sovereign States, which should be respected in their integrity. Therefore, the European Union also has responsibilities because it is part of the causes that lead thousands of refugees to seek shelter in Europe. Despite this and the responsibilities that the European Union has in this process, the European Union and its member countries are receiving these people in a truly embarrassing environment, which makes the Agreement between the European Union and Turkey the clearest example of how the European Union is facing a problem that the European Union itself has helped to create. This European Union agreement with Turkey is a disgrace, because its purpose is to give Turkey money to close the door to families fleeing the war. The European Union pays the doorkeeper so that these people do not reach Europe. This in no way helps to solve the problem, a serious and humanitarian problem, and also translates a gross attack on human rights. in this circumstance, the Greens use to reaffirm their protest and condemnation regarding the European Union agreement with Turkey, demand the imperative need for policies and measures for refugees, which fully respect the Charter of the United Nations, and remember that the principles that guide the European Union should not only serve as « European see », they must have practical implementation, and this would be an example that the European Union could give to the world. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u232	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed to the vote. Let us begin with the vote on vote No 58 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemning the deportation of refugees to Turkey ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the members of PS Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos and Ricardo Bexiga, and abstentions by the Deputies of PS Helena Roseta and the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] It was as follows: In recent days the process of deportation of applicants for international protection from Greece to Turkey began. The European Union-Turkey Agreement, signed on 18 March, states that all those who, by fleeing to Europe through Greece, are considered illegal are sent to Turkey, i.e. outside the European Union, and then returned to the places where they fled. On 4 April, the first day on which the Agreement entered into force, more than 200 of these persons were deported to Turkey. Among them, at least 13 were entitled to apply for asylum in Europe, accusing the UN Refugee Agency ( UNHCR ). The very distinction between migrants and refugees, which suddenly began to occupy the discourse in this regard, is used to weaken the defence of human rights: the objective is to use criteria that legitimize deportations and minimize international solidarity. The EU-Turkey Agreement is the result of an unacceptable EU external border closure policy. The European authorities prefer to ignore that the coming to European territory of these people is the way to fight for the life of those who flee the war. Instead of solidarity, the EU pays to Turkey by treating « refugees as human waste that must be swept away », as stated by NGOs Human Rights Watch. This is the first week of implementation of the EU-Turkey Agreement and must be the last. In defence of human rights and of a Europe that does not place solidarity in the drawer. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the deportation of refugees from Greece to Turkey under the Turkey support mechanism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u233	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u234	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u235	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that I shall make a statement of vote in writing, which has to do with my interpretation and application of international standards.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u236	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 59 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemning the policy of the European Union for refugees and immigrants ( CFP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u237	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u238	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u239	Mr President, I request that vote No 59 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) be voted on by points.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u240	By the way, how do you want to divide them, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u241	points 1, 2 and 3 together and then points 4 and 5 in block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u242	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the vote on the points...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u243	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u244	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u245	Mr President, in response to the request for disaggregation, which the Bureau has accepted...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u246	Mr President, the breakdown of votes is usually requested before we begin the voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u247	You are quite right, Mr President, it should have been indeed requested before, but we request the vote on all points of the vote autonomously.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u248	We shall therefore vote separately on points of vote No 59 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemning the European Union's policy for refugees and immigrants ( CFP ), starting with point 1. [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Members Isabel Alves Moreira and Isabel Santos.]] It was as follows: 1 — Rejects the European Union-Turkey Agreement and the European Union's refugee policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u249	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS of the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] It was as follows: 2 — Condemns the conditions for the operation of the hotspots and the violation of the human rights observed there.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — He affirms the need for policies for refugees and immigrants who respect the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u251	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, point 4 is in the vote. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Member of PS Helena Roseta.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — It expresses its solidarity with all the people who are victims of external interference, destabilization and aggression, particularly with the people of Syria who are now the largest contingent of refugees and displaced persons.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u252	Mrs. Finally, we shall vote on point 5, which is the last of vote No 59 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the Member of PS Helena Roseta.]] It was as follows: 5 — Calls for the end of policies of interference and aggression against sovereign States and respect for the sovereignty and independence of States, the right of peoples to self-determination and development.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u253	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u254	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u255	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u256	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u258	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u259	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u260	Be registered. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 60 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Solidarity with European and national authorities in the management of the migration crisis ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] [[It is this: We live in Europe, and especially in its southern vicinity, a moment of important challenges. Europe faces the greatest migration crisis of this century, which tests the unity of the European project, the robustness of its civilizational values and its international credibility. Week after week, reality seems to continue to exceed the European response capacity. We witnessed a humanitarian calamity in the waters of the Mediterranean. It is not acceptable that these migratory flows are essentially organized and controlled by smugglers and traffickers who are cruelly exploiting the despair of many and the fragility of the policies of coordination at the migration level between countries of origin and countries of destination, opening the way for trafficking in human beings to all repulsive titles. The magnitude of these recent flows calls for a European solution to halt this migration crisis and mitigate its brute impacts. Europe must be clearer and more effective to take the lead in managing its external border. It is fair, however, to recognize the availability that the European Union has expressed by dynamising its neighbourhood policy and, in particular, its partnership with Turkey. The agreement reached at the last European Council by the 28 Member States, including the Portuguese Government, led by the PS and supported by the CFP, BE and the Green Ecological Party, on the financing of the European refugee support mechanism for Turkey in accordance with international law and respect for human rights. To recognize, however, this partnership relationship does not mean to accept a dependency relationship. Europe cannot wait for third countries to solve their problems with all urgency and at any price, as it can not fail to support the countries most under pressure from migration flows, such as Greece or Italy. Like Portuguese and Europeans, we are solidarity and concerned not only with the difficult situation experienced by all those who, fleeing from war, poverty and facing the anguish of uncertainty about their future, risk their lives in the hope of reaching Europe, but also with the peoples and authorities of those countries that are on the front line of support for refugees. The CDS-PP, with the legitimacy of solidarity with the Portuguese position expressed by the Socialist Party's vote of congratulation, by the position of the Portuguese Government on the question of refugees (vote No 46/XIII (1a)), considers that it is important for all to assume their responsibilities, in particular in the conduct of foreign policy, which is, in the light of Article 182 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, an exclusive competence of the Government, led by the PS and supported by BE, PCP and the Green Party. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its desire for European solidarity and responsibility in the management and resolution of this situation, adjusted to the challenges imposed on a Europe that must be more political, cohesive and structured, and honouring the Christian and lay humanism that permeates the values of Europe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u261	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 61 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemning the failure to comply with the EU-Turkey Agreement ( PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, PS and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of BE and the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: Europe is facing the greatest humanitarian crisis since the start of the process of European integration, caused by the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, particularly in Syria and around the activity of DAESH, and by various outbreaks of instability and armed conflicts in various countries on the African continent. In order to build solutions, in accordance with international law and capable of providing answers to the dramas experienced on both sides of its borders, seeking to create dignified answers and to prevent the problems and risks of life generated by illegal networks of displacement of people, the European Union agreed on a set of response measures with Turkey. The key point of the agreement to be implemented: compliance with existing international law on migration, asylum and populations displaced by international conflicts represents the essential guarantee of the protection of families of migrants seeking shelter away from their homes torn apart by armed conflict. However, several situations have been identified by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for non-compliance with asylum requirements in European territory, compromising one of the key points of the Agreement. It is therefore urgent to take responsibility for these and other violations of the agreement and ensure full compliance with the understanding with Turkey. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns cases of non-compliance with the EU-Turkey Agreement with regard to the application of the asylum and international protection regime for refugee persons, and calls for strict compliance with European Union law and international humanitarian law in this area.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u262	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u263	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u264	Mr President, it is to tell the House that on behalf of the Left Block we will deliver a vote statement on votes Nos 60 and 61 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u265	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 205/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Italy ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 222 / XIII ( 1 ) was followed. ( a ) — Extension of the travel of the President of the Republic to Germany ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 149 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulation of parental responsibilities by mutual agreement with the conservatories of the civil registry in the event of dissolution of de facto unions and similar cases ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the sanctioning system by indexing the value of fines to the sales volume of the commercial area as regards labelling, origin of agri-food and lossful sales and by establishing a pigmeat price observatory ( CDS-PP ). At the request of the Left Block, we shall first vote on point 1 and then on point 2. We shall therefore vote on point 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u266	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u267	Mr President, we are in the middle of a vote, but still please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u268	Mr President, we did not have the information that there had been a request for a breakdown of the vote. Therefore, we ask for a small pause to be able to analyze the points.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u269	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's, then, wait a moment for you. Members may read paragraphs 1 and 2 of the draft resolution. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that we have more votes to make, I suggest that the vote on this draft resolution be left to the end. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 159 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a programme allowing the restructuring of the short-term credit of pig growers in the medium term, with two years of shortage and that producers of pig collection costs ( SIRCA) for a period of six months should be reassessed at the end of that period ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PS and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 160 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government exempt producers, spouses and workers in the pigmeat sector from payment to social security for a period of six months ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to draft resolution No 145 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government exempt the payment of social security contributions for raw cow milk producers and pig meat producers ( PSD ) for which the CDS-PP requests a separate vote on points 1 and 2. I think we should leave this vote to the end. I apologize for the fact that this information is only being given at this time, but, as I have written information, I thought the parliamentary groups had been notified at that time when the vote script was built. As you know, I was not present during the whole session, but in any case, it is my responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u270	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u271	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u272	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group is in a position to vote on draft resolutions 145 and 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u273	I wonder if all parliamentary groups are in a position to vote on these draft resolutions. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we should leave these two initiatives to the end of the vote. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 176 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By replacing milk quotas in the European Union and protecting the line of Portuguese milk ( BE ). I'll inform you. Deputies that there was a replacement of the resolution by the author. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 208 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of measures to address the problems of pig farming ( CFP ). In this case, too, a breakdown of votes was requested by the CDS-PP, which calls for the vote on point 2 ( c ) and point 5.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u274	Mr President, if we could vote separately on point 6 too, we would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u275	We shall then begin by voting on point 2 ( c), then we shall vote on point 5, following point 6 and then on the other points. Let us begin by voting on point 2 ( c). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote on point 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on point 6. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PAN, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of the PSD.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the remaining points of the motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PAN and the PSD abstained.]] Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u276	Mr President, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on draft resolutions 145 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 160 / XIII ( 1. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Be registered. You have the floor, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u278	Mr President, with surprise at the breakdown of votes, we ended up not voting on draft resolution No 145 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u279	You are right, Mr, but the same thing was to be voted on at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u280	Mr President, I have already seen an indication of the PS that it could be voted on and I thought it would be possible to vote on it then.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u281	If the gentlemen. Members now want to vote on the initiatives that have reached the end, we started by voting on draft resolution No 158 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the sanctioning system by indexing the value of fines to the sales volume of the commercial area in respect of labelling, origin of agri-food and lossful sales and by establishing a price observatory for pigmeat ( CDS-PP ) for which the vote under paragraphs 1 and 2 was also requested. We shall therefore vote on paragraph 1 of draft resolution No 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PS and the NAP and the abstention from BE.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 145 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government exempt the payment of social security contributions for raw cow milk producers and pig meat producers ( PSD ) for which the vote under points 1 and 2 was also requested. We shall vote on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, with votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, with regard to the projects of lein.o 16 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Set the maximum number of students per class ( The Greens) and 148 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establish measures to reduce the number of students per class aimed at improving the teaching-learning process ( PCP ), to draft resolutions 213/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotion of school success through strategic and appropriate class size ( CDS-PP ) and 216 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government gradually reduce the number of students per class ( PS ) to Bill No 154 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establish a maximum number of students by class and by teacher in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education ( BE) and draft resolution No 217 XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Measures to promote school success ( BE) were submitted by the Greens, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PS, and the BE, requesting the drop of these legislative initiatives to the Education and Science Commission, including several deadlines...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u282	Mr President, the Greens' request requires 90 days for the discharge of the competent Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u283	The PCP requirement also refers to 90 days, the CDS-PP request refers to 30 days...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u284	Mr. President, it's about 90 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u285	It was mentioned 30 days but then goes to 90. The PS request also refers to the 90-day period as well as that of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u286	Mr President, the first set of requirements may be standardized for 90 days and the remaining ones, which refer to other legislative initiatives, are within a period of 30 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u287	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u288	Mr President, only in order to cooperate with the Bureau, I would suggest that the maximum time limit should be met in all requests for discharge to the committees. That is why we decided in advance what Mr President is trying to do on a case-by-case basis and I believe that it will take a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u289	I fully agree with that, Mr President, but I cannot fail to mention what is the proposal contained in the demands. If all of you. Members agree, we shall jointly vote on these requests for discharge to the Committee on Education and Science, submitted by the Greens, the CFP, the CDS-PP, the PS and the BE, requesting the Commission for Education and Science to be discharged without voting for a period of 90 days of the projects of lein 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 148 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), draft resolutions 213 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 216 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), of Bill No 154 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and draft resolution No 217 / XIII ( 1. ( a). Let's vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now have another set of requests submitted by BE, the CFP and the PS respectively, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged without a 30-day vote of draft resolutions 163 / XIII ( 1 ) for a period of 30 days. ( a ) — Reposition of legality in the allocation of special education allowance ( BE), 182 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the allocation of special education allowance and ensures clinical support for all children and young people with disabilities ( PCP ) and 219 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reform of the allocation of special education allowance ( PS ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now move on to draft resolution No 188 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the Republic of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2016 (CAE) Work Programme. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on Bill No 155 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Classification and protection scheme for shops and entities with historical and cultural interest ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We have another request from the CDS-PP, which I hope will be from the House's knowledge, in order to disaggregate the vote on point 4 of draft resolution No 220 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Classification and valuation of historical stores ( The Greens ). Let us then vote on point 4 of this motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the remaining points of this draft resolution No 220 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD were adopted.]] Mrs. Members were also submitted to the Commission responsible for draft lein. 152 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Deputies and the Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges ( BE ), 153 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amending the Statute of Members by making the exclusivity regime of Members compulsory to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), Act No 141 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Members ( CFP ), 142 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of incompatibilities and impediments of holders of political positions and high public positions ( Eighth amendment to Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ) ( PCP ) and 150 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the rules for transparency and rigour in the exercise of political and high public positions and control over unjustified capital increases ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u290	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u291	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u292	Mr President, I believe that not misreading what will be the feeling of all the benches, because it has already been expressed in the morning debate, we should vote first, although this is not the follow-up to the vote script, draft resolution No 215 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), because it constitutes a possible committee, and then the bills it announced went down to that possible committee. Otherwise they'll go down to 1. The Commission will then move to this committee, and this would save us bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u293	It's understood. Thank you very much, Mr. I think it makes sense and, if there is no disagreement, we proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 215/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for the strengthening of transparency in the exercise of public functions ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Now, yes, we will vote on the requests submitted by BE and the PCP, requesting the discharge, without a vote, of this Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, to be constituted, of the projects of lein. 152 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Deputies and the Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges ( BE ), 153 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amending the Statute of Members by making the system of exclusivity of Members compulsory to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), 141 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Members ( CFP ), 142 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of incompatibilities and impediments of holders of political positions and high public positions ( Eighth amendment to Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ( PCP ) and 150 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the rules for transparency and rigour in the exercise of political and high public positions and control over unjustified capital increases ( PS ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Helena Roseta asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u294	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u295	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u296	Mr President, the fact that we are in the last row causes the Bureau to often fail to look at us, but I would like to remind you that when we voted on the diplomas on the historical stores, Mr President did not announce which committee they are going down to. As many may be, it is good to clarify.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u297	Madam Member, it is not a matter of not looking, it is another matter of sometimes looking badly. It's another matter of glasses... [[Laughing.]] The diplomas governing the classification and protection regime of shops and entities with historical and cultural interest are down to 11. the Commission. Then we have once again down to 12 requirements. the Commission, and one refers to 60 and another 30 days. We will therefore consider the maximum period of 60 days, as has been mentioned recently. So we move on to draft resolutions 124 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Data Sharing Legal Regime ( PCP ) and 151 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensures the exercise of the rights of users as enshrined in the Code of Copyright and Related Rights ( BE) for which two applications were submitted, respectively by the CFP and the EB, requesting the low Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, without a vote, within 60 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on the text, as amended by the author, of draft resolution No 88/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — To promote the row of Indian figs ( PCP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] Mr Mauricio Marques, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u298	Mr President, I would like to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u299	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote on the text replaced by the author of draft resolution No 183/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the resolution of existing problems and constraints and promotes the defence and exploitation of the fishing community of Australia ( CFP ). Mr. Hélder Amaral, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u300	Mr President, I had the idea that the Bureau had been informed of the request for a separate vote on point 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u301	The Bureau did not receive any notice on this matter. in this case neither the Bureau knew. But as there seems to be no objection, we can vote separately on point 1 and point 2. We therefore voted point 1 of the draft resolution that I just identified. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We then vote on point 2 of the same diploma. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 187 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By urgent intervention in the recovery of the National Highway 4 ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mr Vasco Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u302	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u303	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now move on to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on the drafts of lein. 86 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the impermissibility and impossibility of execution of the mortgage of the housing property itself and permanently due to tax debts ( amends the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October) ( BE), 87 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Protects the household under tax enforcement procedures ( PS ) and 89 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspends the penhoras and sales of own and permanent housing in tax enforcement processes and determines the application of a regime for impermissibility of such buildings ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u304	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u305	Mr Duarte Pacheco, is it true that you have a written vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u306	Mr. President, much better! It will be oral but, of course, at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u307	All right, Mr. Deputies. What I wanted to say was that I had a written statement of vote that I was going to read, but that is the end of the vote. We shall proceed to the vote on the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation on a request for the adoption of the urgent procedure of Bill No 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Conditions of financial responsibility of the State n in the provision of health care to the users of the Regional Health Service of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, by the National Health Service and the recognition of the principle of reciprocity ( ALRAA ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u308	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u309	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are now voting on draft resolution No 234 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate charged to the employer by 0, 75 percentage points in respect of contributions relating to remuneration due in February 2016 to January 2017 ( PCP ) [ Parliamentary assessment No 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a) ). Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u310	Mr President, I would like to confirm whether this is the item that was added to the script during the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u311	Exactly, Mr. Deputies. As we finished the discussion of Decree-Law No. 11 / 2016 of 8 March[ Parliamentary assessment No. 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ] before the votes, the draft resolution for the cessation of the vote was added to the script, with the agreement of the various parliamentary groups and we are already in a position to vote. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We must also vote on two opinions from the Ethics Sub-Commission, the Constitutional Affairs Committee, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I call on the Secretary to read out.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: with regard to Case No 360 / 15.9PDPRT, of the Comarca do Porto, the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics is intended to authorize Mr Miguel Santos ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u313	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Secretary, I ask you to read the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to Case No 1159 / 14.5TVLSB, of the District of Lisbon, the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics is intended to authorize Mrs Clara Marques Mendes ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u315	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before we close our work, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to present his statement of vote on the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on the projects of lein. 86 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), 87 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 89 / XIII ( 1. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The declaration of vote that the PSD Parliamentary Group wishes to present is related to the failure and sale of property for tax debts. We all understand that there must be two principles in this legislation: there must be a safeguard of the permanent housing of the most needy families and, on the other hand, there can be no incentive to escape from the payment of tax contributions. These two principles must be permanently above any legislation. This legislation now emerging could come with good intentions, but on the left, by rejecting the proposal submitted by the PSD, it gives a wrong signal to taxpayers, in particular to taxpayers. Why? We have tabled an amendment aimed at preventing the sale of permanent housing with a value of up to € 170 000, which covers most cases and covers the most needy families. The left, God knows why, preferred that real estate should be safeguarded with a value of up to €570 000 — I repeat, €570 000 — giving here a unequivocal sign that those who have the most income can no longer fulfil their tax obligations, penalizing those who are fulfilling. This is unacceptable! This tax pardon for the higher income families in this proposal now approved by the left is unacceptable in Portugal and therefore it has our opposition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-08.u317	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place next Wednesday at 3 p.m. and will begin with the urgent debate required by the Government overvaluation of the territory. In point 2 discuss-CL draft resolution No 211/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By maintaining the management of the hospitals of Anadia, Serpa and Fafe for their mercy ( PSD ). In point 3, we shall proceed to the discussion of draft resolutions 201 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of measures to combat Diabetes ( PS ) and 197 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide continuous insulin infusion ( SPCI ) therapy to all children with diabetes up to 14 years of age ( BE ). The discussion of draft resolution No 180 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government vote against renewing the use of carcinogen glyphosate in the EU and the implementation in the country of this prohibition of use ( BE ). I wish the PCP success in its Parliamentary Days, which will take place on Monday and Tuesday. Good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 36 minutes.]]
