ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first plenary meeting of the 2nd. the Legislative Session of the XIII Legislation. I should therefore like to wish everyone a good job at this new Legislative Session, justifying the absence of our President, who is at the meeting of the Presidents of the Parliaments of the Council of Europe which is taking place in Strasbourg. To start the work, I would ask Mr. Secretary of Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 295 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Revocation of the Baldies Act, Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September ( BE ), 296 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In order to ensure equal access to the lease by those with pet animals ( PAN) and 297 / XII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the General Law on Sports Work and Sport Training ( PS ). The draft resolutions 462 / XIII ( 1 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the dissemination of a report on the implementation of basic population screenings of breast cancer, cervical cancer, diabetic retinopathy and colon and rectum cancer (BE) and 463 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening measures to prevent, diagnose, treat and support breast cancer patients ( PCP ). In terms of file, that is all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the first item on our agenda concerns political declarations, which we shall begin. First of all, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we start to 2. the Legislative Session of a Parliament which was characterized by the investment of a government supported by the left-wings represented in this Parliament. And who would say that at the beginning of the 2nd. The Legislative Session of this Parliament, which is spoken of, not by the mouth of the opposition, but by the mouth of those in charge of these parties, is a possible fourth rescue or a situation of new tax increase. That is, what the left ones are talking about right now is all contrary to what they spoke about during the election campaign and what they promised when they were invested as government in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let it be clear, once and for all: neither the fragility of the Portuguese situation nor the reversal of a path of consolidation of growth and reduction of tax burden have to do with circumstances strange to the majority that govern Portugal. The fragility that eventually Portugal suffers and the increase in taxes that once again crushes the Portuguese are of the only, exclusive and, I would say, even convinced responsibility of the parties that support the Government of Portugal — the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u5	This is a reversal of the electoral promises they have made. But worse than the reversal in relation to the electoral promises they made is the reversal that made the Portuguese feel: they sold an idea of hope and a possible solution to the country that has been totally frustrated since the first days of government. Not only did they not turn the page of austerity as they greatly stepped up the page of austerity. And don't think of the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we have fallen on the verge of talking about taxes that now invent the last hour to want to cantonate the opposition in a completely fallacious discussion of supposed taxes on the rich; no! We talk about what hurts the parties that support this government, which is the brutal increase in taxes that made for the poorest in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] You, during the last year, have increased taxes for most Portuguese people who do not pay IRS (tax on income of natural people) not because you are fleeing, but because you do not have enough income to pay IRS; you have done what, even in exceptional situations, the previous government has not done, i.e., you have made increases in indirect taxes, which are blind taxes and which affect in the same way those who have most and those who do not have; you have increased taxes to those who didn't even pay the most relevant of all taxes of the Portuguese tax system, which is the IRS; you have revealed the greatest social insensitivity in the tax policy they have applied; you have crushed the middle class and, have made much worse, you have broken the lower classes, those that, not having enough labour income to pay taxes, pay, of course, the indirect taxes, the products that were at the lowest rate of VAT (tax on the added value) and the higher rate...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u7	That's in the cars!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u8	And it's not just in the cars, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! That is what you want to make people want, that is, only those who have a car and are rich, because that is the idea that you have a country, is that you pay taxes on fuels; no! Who has social pass and public transport also pays for the increase in oil products! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Whoever walks in public transport pays the tax increases that you have applied in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, it is not worth having now to make a championship of the radical left of whom it is that increases more taxes. But it is worth remembering that the championship of the Left Block and the PCP when they were in opposition was that of the one who had the most social measures; now, it's from who increases the tax. We do not give sufficient importance, because we believe that there are more serious things, but we do not fail to note this substantial change in left-wing behaviour on the left-wing side of this Parliament, which no longer have a social discourse, only have tax speeches and tax speeches are rising every day and on all Portuguese. It is very clear what is the contribution of the Left Block and the PCP to this majority that has completely failed the commitment of growth and economic recovery. There is no data that sustains the one who was the economic model of the Socialist Party. They laid down on earth all the expectations, growth, recovery of the standard of living of people, removing the customers who, of course, continue to protect, and what they returned is exactly the same as the parties that governed Portugal before the last elections had as an electoral commitment to return. Therefore, it is not worth coming up with an idea of generosity, because they did nothing more than what they also proposed PSD and CDS in their electoral program. But they did one thing: we propose to return income, supporting this return of income in economic growth, supporting this return of income in improving the conditions of all Portuguese. And what are you guys doing? They support the return of this income in a tax breakdown, of those who give with one hand and take both,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... from those who draw much more than what they give, from those who do not have any political sensitivity and show it not only in fiscal policy but, for example, in social action which, strangely and in a very severe and negative way, is substantially reduced at this time. Do you have the courage to say that you reduce spending with social action, because now you live better? Why don't the Portuguese people need it anymore? I believe they don't! For this reason, Portugal, at this moment, lives a situation in which it is governed by a former Democratic Socialist Party, which is today a neoliberal party with ticks chavistas every day, by a former folk trotskyist party,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... that is today a «Laundry», in which yet a socialist ruler did not commit a gaffe and the Left Block is already apologizing and saying that it was not the intention of the governor to say such alarm,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u9	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u10	...and by a radical former Communist Party that today is no more than a political offshore. of the obscurantism of the Central Committee nothing is known, it is not done... ; the only thing that attempts to make it appear is that the Communist Party has nothing to do with this. Here you go, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, you're going to have to answer for that! So the solution, despite the crisis being such...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u11	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u12	I will finish, Mr. President. Despite the crisis to be such, the solution is not to wait for this government to fall to rot, because it would rot the country; it is to have clear, constructive opposition, that there is an alternative for the country that reverses the lack of hope that you have induced the country, that takes away the cynical smile from the Prime Minister's face, that returns hope to the Portuguese and that allows, once and for all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u13	Sir, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u14	...that the country can evaluate what is a political solution that clearly failed. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u15	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask Mr João Pinho de Almeida whether he wishes to answer individually or together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u16	Individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u17	Of course, Mr. Deputies. To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor, which has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u18	Mr. President, I see the CDS came back on vacation, but he didn't lose the discharge... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u19	I have been listening carefully to your speech and I think you have managed to succeed in making no real statement, which is not exactly a difference from the past, yet it is astonishing, Mr. João Almeida. Starting with a statement made by Mr. João Almeida at the beginning that «it was all contrary to what they promised in the electoral programme», even the honourable Member must have given an inner squabbling, because if there is a party or government that has not done everything contrary to what he promised in his electoral programme, but has executed his electoral programme, he has fully implemented his Government programme and taken the measures he has committed to the Portuguese, I would say it is the Socialist Party and now the parties that support this majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To hear a member of the CDS talk about breaking electoral commitments until you recognize that it was a little too much. He made statements such as : « the brutal increase in taxes », « the rise in tax burden »... Mr, the tax burden is falling in 2016, and I am not... [[CDS and PSD laughter.]] Riam-se, riam-se! ... Mr President, that is what UTAO (Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) says and, if you look closely at the implementation of the budget, I think that even the honourable Member will say the same thing. And in 2017, Mr, what is planned is to reduce the tax burden. Do you know what happened to the tax burden in the last year of your government? It has increased — in fact, the first year in which it fell is the first year of this government and the second year in which it will fall is the second year of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, I would advise you to review your data and at least try to ensure that your speeches and statements have an approximation, even though remote, indeed, because perhaps we would all win with that and you would surely win. The honourable Member came here to say: "We never touched the ISP, nor the tax on the lowest...". Are you serious, Member? Are you saying that the CDS was not in the government between 2011 and 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u20	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u21	In fact, the CDS increased the ISP (oil product tax ), increased tobacco tax, but also wanted to cut wages from 600 €, cuts in pensions from 600 €, did not want to increase the RSI (social income of insertion) - in fact - cut it - it does not create the CSI ( solidarity supplement for the elderly) - it was against the increase in the minimum wage for this year, it was against the reduction in the rate of IMI (municipal tax on real estate), it was against the increase in the allowance...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u22	Mr Galamba, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u23	Mr President, you can say what you want, but there is one thing that the Portuguese know and indeed the polls show - it is that the available income of the Portuguese, after several years of cuts, is increasing with this government and the dignity of the Portuguese as well. That is what it costs the CDS and that is why it invents speeches that do not have a real claim, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u24	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please try to contain yourself in the time available. To reply, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u25	Mr. President, thank you very much. I believe that Mr Galamba's speech speaks for himself and our serenity, and that is why there is no problem. On internal squabbling, I actually spoke about squabbling, but they weren't indoors, were the outsiders of the Prime Minister, which is something that begins to offend deeply the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The country does not realize why, having more and more difficulties, has a Prime Minister whose main feature is to laugh. [[Congratulations on the CDS and PSD.]] The question is this, sir! If you want to help us, the honourable Member could answer us: Mr Prime Minister laughs at what? Did I laugh at the tax increases proposed by the Left Block? Is the increase in taxes proposed by the CFP? Is the Minister of Finance's false forecast? What about the ridiculous statements made by the Minister of Finance? Do you agree with the commitments you have made in the Council of Ministers, which are exactly the disallowation of what your State Secretaries have done a month earlier? Is it any of these things that laugh? Or did the Socialist Party laugh at the fact that it did not raise taxes and continue to increase them? You may even say you're returning something, but you don't return anything more than what the Socialist Party last time you run started cutting... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr. Member, who started cutting salaries from public servants in Portugal? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It was a government of the Socialist Party! Who started cutting pensions in Portugal? It was a government of the Socialist Party! And now, Mr President, I could talk about VAT: who has last increased VAT in Portugal, the blindest tax of all taxes? Who has last increased VAT in Portugal, Member of the Commission? Say something about VAT, which is the blindest tax, the most regressive of all, the most damaging one who has nothing! You say nothing about growth, you say nothing about exports, you say nothing about anything that interests the Portuguese day-to-days, removing the corporations that you protect. You live in a bubble and an illusion that ruling against one part of the Portuguese can have the confidence of the other part of the Portuguese. It is an incendiary government that will not resist or resist for a long time because most Portuguese begin to realize, not by political speeches,... Mr. President ( Jorge Lacão ). — You have reached the end of your time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u26	...but by the wallet, which you lie, you continue to lie and that the results show the level of the lie you have presented to the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u27	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u28	Mr President, Mr João Almeida, I thank you for your political statement and thank you for this exercise of bringing the truth to this Parliament. We remember that one year ago these parties promised a future without austerity, with the economy growing much more, the employment to grow much more, the investment to grow much more and all the clouds had disappeared. I'm back a year, not one, not another, not the third thing happened. The black clouds are the Minister of Finance himself who brings them in and told us yesterday that he just answered a question about the ransom. But the problem is not only the very unskilled answer of the Minister of Finance, it is he who is responsible for the question of rescue being asked again in Portugal. The responsibility is theirs, black clouds are brought by the choices of this government. But it is also not true that the country had more growth, more investment, more exports, more employment. The whole reality of the numbers — no longer predictions — shows a country stopped by the choices of this government, what you did and what you now announce. On the conversation of reversal of austerity, you see these weeks the stirs in the IMI, in the steps, in the taxes, in the indirect taxes—the Minister said here yesterday — and now another tax. Notice that we are in a country that doesn't talk about anything else but a left-wing majority who wants to raise taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u29	It's more one and less one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u30	Mr. João Almeida, my question is this: do we have a government that is talking about raising taxes why? For two very simple reasons: the first is that they chose to increase state spending. When you look at this side...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u31	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, when they look at our side they see parties that when they were in government they made the biggest reduction of current state spending. Instead, you choose to increase public expenditure and therefore pay it to the Portuguese with taxes. The other reason is that the economy has stopped...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u33	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u34	Mr. President, I will finish. As I said, the economy stopped. A stopped economy does not generate taxes and the problem is that your choices, such as the choices of these taxes they are now talking about, are more a red card to Portuguese investors, foreign investors who look at our country. The question is: is this the consequence of the choices on this left? We could or wouldn't live...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u35	Mr President, do not force me to take a more drastic step, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u36	I shall conclude by asking for the same tolerance that Mr. President has granted to Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u37	You've already used this tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u38	Mr. João Almeida, was it possible or not today we are not discussing any increase in taxes and the country continues to grow as it grew last year? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u39	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u40	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Starting with the last one, I answer you that it was possible. It was possible if the path had been a more authentic and prudent way. It is true that there is political cost of following a more prudent path, it is obvious that anyone who promises everything at the same time is more popular. The problem is that popularity is ephemeral and the economic and social consequences of this populism are not ephemeral, and that is the problem of the governance of the Socialist Party. As I said a short time ago, we never had a disagreement about returns of income. We had and had divergences about rates of returns of yield and sustainability of returns of yield. Not long ago when Mr.António Leitão Amaro spoke of another tax, Mr. João Galamba, he cried out: « It is one and less one». That's right! You are playing with the tax system because you cannot achieve the effect you should have, which was that of the economy to generate enough so that the reduction of one tax would not have to involve the creation of another, Mr President. That's exactly it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u41	It's in the PS program.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u42	It is that returning income is not ending with an overtax of IRS and inventing a new rate of real estate and a new rate of real estate! That is not returning income, that is playing with people, playing with the tax system and probably reducing tax justice. in a situation where in a labour tax it was perfectly visible who was contributing, at an exceptional time and in a country where the overwhelming majority of the population has own property, especially at the level of housing, this is an attack on the nature of property, savings, the passage of family income. You ignore all of this because of an ideological blindness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u43	It is more than €500 000!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u44	We understand that the country does not deserve this ideological blindness. You are right, Mr Leitão Amaro: there is an alternative and there we assume responsibility. The country needs to know the alternative—and this will start in the 2017 Budget —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u45	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u46	As I said, the country has to know the alternative of those who know how the country could at this time be generating from the economic point of view income and growth sufficient to sustain the return of income without continuing to go double to the Portuguese pocket. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u47	To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u48	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, the honourable Member has come here to talk about tax increases. There is a need to talk about it when your government, the CDS government together with the PSD, has been the government that has increased its taxes in the democratic history of our country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] You have led to a brutal increase in IRS—in a single year the revenue has increased 35 %. But they also increased VAT, IMI, seal tax, all excise duties. You have carried out the greatest increase in taxes that there is memory in our country, at the same time that you have reduced the IRC (tax on the income of the public) and you have made an IRC reform to benefit large companies and large capital. And this is the nature of your policy. at the same time they crushed the contributors of 1. the step, those with an annual income of €7000, €500 per month, increasing their tax rate from 12, 5 % to 14, 5 %, made an IRC reform to benefit the large capital. That is what you did and wanted to continue to do if in good time you had not been let down by the government with the contribution of the CFP and we were very proud of it. [[PCP applause.]] The defeat of the CDS government and the PSD allowed a process of reintroduction of rights and incomes and also in the tax area. This year you have turned over the supertax that you have introduced. This year, for most taxpayers, and from January 1, 2017, for all contributors, ends the infamous overtax of IRS. PCP proposal reduced the maximum IMI rate from 0, 5 % to 0, 45 %. These, Mr President, were the first steps. We need to give more space, we need to continue to alleviate taxes on workers, pensioners, families, micro and small entrepreneurs while at the same time we need to pay more appropriately on large economic groups, large businesses and big fortunes. It is in this, Mr. João Almeida, that the CFP is committed. Question: What would the CDS like to do? Would you like to continue to crush the Portuguese workers and people with taxes? Isn't the CDS-PP afraid that the tax sack you did when you were in the government will be reversed? That is what the CDS is concerned about, that the tax draw that you have directed against the workers and the people can now be reversed. That's what moves them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u49	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u50	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, what do we want? I refer to a very important idea regarding taxation: we wanted, for example, that the exemptions within IMI do not benefit those who have large estates and harm workers and the people. Therefore, the question I ask the CFP is whether the CFP believes that political parties should also pay IMI for workers and the people to pay less. It's interesting. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u51	And now I ask you, too, if you already know whether the tax on the heritage that the Left Block has combined with the PS applies or not to political parties, because we are very curious about this solution. [[Congratulations from the CDS and some PSD Members.]] [[PCP protests.]] That is, I wonder if taxation above half a million euros applies to political parties or not. It's interesting! The Portuguese like to know these things. The honourable Member has not spoken now, but he often talks about fighting offshores. I wonder if offshores are only those of other countries or if they are those of the events that take place in national heritage and that do not charge taxes as they are collected in other similar events? And are you against the offshores that happen in national territory, especially those that are organized by political parties? It was also interesting to know what they think about it because it is not worth talking about the workers and the people and then to think that the political parties, particularly the Communist Party of Portugal, can all because you think of the right to represent the workers and the people and is above the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u52	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u53	You can't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. If you are the biggest owners you have to pay more as the biggest owners pay. It is not because they are a political party that will pay less. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That's what the Portuguese have to know, too. Are you available for this fiscal justice? You speak of discharge, but in addition to the discharge I have referred to so far, you have another one. We answered here for each of the taxes that we had to increase and said what was the objective of these tax increases: to release Portugal from a situation of external dependence that was present according to the governance of another party, the Socialist Party, and indeed the PCP at the time said exactly the same thing. What has happened is that we have achieved this objective and it will not be indifferent to the fact that we have had more votes in the last elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u54	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u55	I would like you one day to say that the Portuguese have so well understood the tax bag that you are doing as you have realized the emergency situation in which we had to govern. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u56	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u57	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, we have seen this film: the taxpayer's party, before going to the government with Durão Barroso, was a friend of the people. When he arrived at the government, VAT rose immediately. It was time to go to the Coelho Pass government and soon there was an overtax of IRS that took half of the Christmas allowance. So we've seen this movie. This return to the past of the painful passage of the CDS by opposition, demagogy and political hypocrisy of those who, when opposed, say that it defends people to attack them later when the government arrives, is the history of the CDS and the country already knows it. That's why you're so nervous, sir. The Portuguese know exactly how demagogic the CDS is when it is in opposition but how much it goes to their pocket when it is in government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Let us see: even now we have heard the honourable Member talk about social justice, we have heard the President of his party, Mrs Asunción Cristas, say that the taxation of the estate above €500 000, which the Left Block proposes, i.e. that the overtax of IMI that real estate should pay, is an attack on the middle class!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u58	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u59	Now, when for the CDS this is the middle class we realize why the CDS-PP does not realize when we give more returns to who is really poor in our country. This is different from the social awareness of the CDS that social and fiscal justice is saving taxes to those who have real estate fortunes. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]] That is that is our difference and that is that it is the misunderstanding of the CDS. For us, Mr President, what is natural in a democracy like Portugal, which has enormous inequality, is that the richest pay more taxes than what happened when the CDS was in the government where the millionaires in our country increased while poverty was shooting. It is the shame of the CDS legacy to shoot away from poverty when we had tens of thousands of fortunes a year, the result of the inequality promoted by the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u60	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u61	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, I remember—it is something that sometimes does not exist in the CDS—and I remember that when the overtax of IRS was created, the honourable Member said that it was not acceptable, that there were alternatives. But when he went to the government he soon quieted himself with his objections. But, honourable Member, I ask you: is it not proud of us now to demonstrate that there is an alternative and that, from 1 January 2017 onwards, will IRS overtax for all taxpayers?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u62	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u63	That's because that's really the difference and the frontalness in politics: we promise and we do, we don't have the crocodile tears of the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u64	To reply, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u65	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, your speech is indeed extraordinary and allows a number of interesting comments on memory, demagogy and coherence. The CDS, in opposition, defended the thawing of the minimum social and rural pensions that the Socialist Party froze when it ruled; the Left Block also defended. When the CDS went to the government the minimum social and rural pensions were frozen. The Left Block, when the CDS was in government, said these pensions should increase €25. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] When the Left Block began to support the Socialist Party Government they put the proposal in the drawer and not even €1 increased to pensions that they said they had to increase €25. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] You want to talk about social justice, Member? You want to talk about social justice? Remember Mr Critics that this bench made the choices that the previous government had to take. Is it possible to say a criticism that the Left Block has already made to the Socialist Party Government that supports it? [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u66	They put consistency in the drawer, Mr. Deputies. [[CDS-PP applause.]] They never did! The Minister of Finance has not said anything yet, and your leader is already apologizing. The Socialist Party has not yet made a wrong proposal and you are already saying that it makes all the sense. You are the 'laundry' of all the shit the socialist government does! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests of BE and PS Members.]] Therefore, you must realize that on inconsistency, on demagogy, on doing one thing and saying another, you are champions in Portugal. There is a film that the country had not yet seen: this film of the shame of the Left Block. It's effective. The Left Block has been in opposition for more than 10 years to pretend it could be a political party without ever having to exercise responsibilities. It happens that the country is seeing for the first time what the Left Block is supporting a government of which it is not even a part, because that was the responsibility of the most. Having to face every day wasn't for the Left Block, it's too high! The Left Block is for intellectual people who live in the stratosphere and who, therefore, is just sending a few palpites. Making decisions on a day-to-day basis is asking a lot of who is with that spirit in politics. And so you have to understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u67	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u68	And I will exhaust the answer, Mr. President. As I said, you, for the first time, are in a position to be judged and the trial is that there is no more hypocritical and more false party in Portuguese politics than the Left Block. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u69	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The moment of initiation of 2. the Legislative Session of this Parliament will not yet be time for balance sheets but it is certainly time to consider the course made so far to better identify the requirements that are placed upon us at the moment we cross. The last year was decisively marked by the withdrawal of the PSD and the Government's CDS and by the political solution found after the elections to the Assembly of the Republic, which allowed the immediate halt and reverse the course of the brutal offensive that PSD and CDS have been developing against the rights, income and living conditions of workers and most of our people in favour of the interests of great capital. But this last year was also marked by the retaliation of the PSD and the CDS and by the European Union's attempts to stop the recovery of rights and income, seeking to destroy the political solution that took that recovery as a compromise. Interpreting and assuming the hostility and strong resistance of the forces of great national and transnational capital to the political solution achieved, PSD and CDS, as well as the European Union, have taken a stance of systematic opposition and resistance to all measures that contribute to reverse the looting of rights and incomes they have perpetrated over the past four years. All the action of the PSD and the CDS, as well as of the European Union, was to raise difficulties and obstacles to positive measures for workers and the people and to seek to create the conditions to reverse the current situation and resume the offensive. Moreover, Mr João Almeida, the political statement and the answers he has just given confirm this in the best way that has just been said. A party that supported the biggest tax draw against workers and the people while at the same time relieving taxes on large economic groups is of course not willing to assume that responsibility and much less today to discuss the reduction of taxes that allow this tax draw to be reversed and to tax, more fairly, the profits of the large economic groups. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] Mr Deputies, who supported a government that exempted real estate funds from IMI at the same time as spying on Portuguese owners of their homes,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... of course, it does not want to talk about reducing IMI for families, as is the result of the proposal presented by the CFP in the State Budget for 2016 and which was approved. I tell you more, Mr. João Almeida, about your attempt to call the CFP with regard to the IMI,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u71	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u72	... I suggest that you consult the declarations given to the Constitutional Court confirming that the CFP paid in 2015, for 2014, €29 000 of IMI, because the exemption from the parties is not what the honourable Member reports. [[PCP applause.]] We don't have submarines in the closet, nor do we have IMI accounts to be. [[PCP applause.]] Even when positive measures are insufficient or limited to respond to the serious economic and social problems of workers and the country, there are the PSD and CDS, as well as the European Union, to create barriers and obstacles, to devalue what is achieved, to try to destroy what has been done, to condition new advances or to announce a disaster always delayed. It is not to be expected that PSD and CDS or the European Union will change their criteria and attitudes in the near future. On the contrary, considering, on the one hand, what has recently been said by the leaders of the PSD and the CDS about the economic and social situation—enthusiastic with their own announcements of a disgrace that could come to impact – on the Portuguese or the country – and not forgetting, on the other hand, the sanctions decided against Portugal by the European Union last July, it will not be expected from these sides to support the positive measures for the workers and the people as small as they have been or may be. from the PCP we reaffirm our position and availability. We will continue to contribute so that no opportunity is wasted to approve positive measures for workers and the people, blocking and immediately investing in the course of the offensive that was being developed by PSD and CDS. We believe that it is necessary to pursue and deepen the path of the replacement of rights and incomes by consolidating what has already been achieved and taking further positive measures to address the problems of workers and the people. We do not feed the illusion that it is possible to pursue this path by accepting the European Union's demands, so we will continue to strengthen the struggle for the rejection of these taxes which are increasingly contrary to the sovereignty and national interest, the progress and development of the country and the improvement of the living conditions of the people. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To take new and more firm steps forward in improving the living and working conditions of the Portuguese, contrary to the worsening exploitation of those who work, is the challenge. We know that this path can only succeed with the involvement of the workers and the people and with the strength of their struggle. It was the struggle that brought us here, and it must be the struggle that needs to be carried out further a policy that serves the interests of the workers and the people. We also know that further measures are needed to improve the living conditions of the workers and the people and we will spare no effort to achieve them. Whether in the context of the discussion of the next State budget, or in the plan of the proposals that we will present to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic, we will continue to beat ourselves for objectives that we consider necessary and indispensable for the country. We will continue to be beaten by a policy to defend national production and the productive sectors. A policy that promotes and strengthens public investment, geared towards growth and employment, with policies that support agriculture, fisheries and industry and that ensure access to public credit and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We will insist on the fight against precariousness and all forms of exploitation of workers, on the repeal of the burdensome standards of labour law, on the defence and exploitation of collective bargaining, on the demand for an increase in wages, including the national minimum wage for 600 €, from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u73	You've reached your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. We will continue to beat ourselves by the effective increase in reforms and pensions, by the fair increase in purchasing power that has been withdrawn from pensioners and pensioners in recent years, by strengthening the means of the SNS (National Health Service), including the increase of doctors, nurses and operational assistants, as well as by the reduction and elimination of moderate rates. We will insist on the progressive freeness of school textbooks in public school, which for the first time this year is assured to all children who attend 1. the year of basic education by proposal of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u75	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u76	And we want to set this free for all 1 next year. the cycle of basic education, as well as the indispensable path of decrease of the number of students per class in the hiring and binding of teachers to the frame. We will continue to fight for more and better social security and social benefits. And we will continue to fight, even against the will of the CDS, against injustices in the tax system, fighting the privileges of the economic groups...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u77	Mr. João Oliveira, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u78	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we will continue to fight injustice, taxing on real estate and real estate and relieving taxes on workers and the people. We do not ignore the difficulties resulting from the consequences of the right-wing policy followed for decades, but we will continue to beat ourselves by a policy that gives the fundamental answer to the problems of the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u79	Mr President, I have already appealed to you three times to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u80	... the patriotic and left-wing policy proposed by the CFP to the workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u81	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask your understanding of the progress of the work. Mr. João Oliveira, four Members were registered for requests for clarification. How would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u82	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u83	Thus, to ask for clarification, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u84	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, your statement mentioned, and well, that we are inverting the one who was an explosive cocktail that the right-wing governance has left in the country. And this explosive cocktail has shown a fragility of the social state, it has shown a fragility of the conditions that our citizens, the Portuguese, have to work, to have a decent life, to have income, to seek to meet their needs. With that explosive cocktail on the right, it sank the country. The right has destroyed jobs at the highest rate in recent decades. The right has encouraged young people, in particular those qualified, to leave their comfort zone and emigrate. The right resulted in more than EUR 2000 million in social security per year either through increased expenditure or through reduced contributions. With this explosive cocktail we know what was the social radiography that left us: 2, 8 million citizens of our poor, more than 10% in material deprivation, severely poor, and, above all, young poor, poor children, poor elderly people. And who did this? The so-called family parties; the so-called defense parties of the middle classes,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u85	...but the middle-standard class on the right. And what is the middle-standard class on the right? Increases, Taxes, termination of exemptions for real estate funds: « attack on the middle class»! Increase in national minimum wage: a tragedy for the national economy! New tax on aggregate real estate over 0, 5 million euros per year — what happens? It's an attack on the middle class! It is not an attack on the middle class to reduce government income to finance private schools where there are public redundancy that must naturally be privileged. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u86	So what we have to decide, what this House is deciding and what this government will certainly continue to decide throughout 2017...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u87	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u88	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, this government will decide whether we want to continue to defend those that are the real conditions of defense of the middle class, which is favouring the social state, the public school, a social system, a socially fair system, because that is why social justice is being defended in our country. That is where the middle class of our country defends itself—and not the middle-standard class of the right—, it is not getting hand in hand, it is with what we are doing and with what we will continue to do in the next Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u89	To reply, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u90	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. The issue relating to social policy, the social rights of Portuguese people and the offensive they have been targeting, particularly in the last four years with the PSD/CDS Government, with the dramatic worsening of the poverty situation, with the truly inhuman pressures of this worsening of poverty, as happened, for example, in relation to child poverty, with children going hungry, with children who only took a meal per day, which was what was provided to them in school, is in fact a reality that we want to push into the past and that we want to never repeat it again. But this reality is a consequence of concrete and political policies that serve certain interests by harming others. This policy pushed millions of Portuguese people into poverty, hit children and the elderly in a particularly serious way, left the society marginalized and excluded an increasing number of Portuguese people who were limited to social benefits they had access to after they lost their jobs. These Portuguese, after losing any form of income, also lost social benefits and, in many cases, even lost their homes because of the economic situation in which they were placed. These are flagrant marks of a policy that has been developed with these consequences for a large portion of Portuguese, but for the benefit of a half a dozen powerful, for the benefit of a half a dozen economic groups, for the benefit of a half a dozen monopoly groups that have concentrated and centralized wealth, as a result of the income flow, the assault that was made to wages, pensions and the incomes of the majority of the Portuguese people. This element of social injustice which marks the right-wing policy and which has particularly dramaticly marked the policy of the previous Government is what needs to be fought in its genesis. And we know that the fundamental measures that need to be taken to combat these political guidelines and decisions go far beyond the measures that have already been taken and even some commitments that are taken and which are at the basis of the political solution that was found after the elections to the Assembly of the Republic. But we also realize that when PSD and CDS, in the Assembly of the Republic, take interventions such as those we heard recently on the part of the CDS, they give voice to those on the other side of the barricade, to the interests that, for four years, have been privileged and favored by that policy and that do not conform to the recovery of income from workers and the Portuguese people, do not comply with the replacement of wages, do not comply with the increase of pensions, the return of rights, the return of holidays and working hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u91	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u92	That's what we have to insist on! Especially related questions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u93	Mr. João Oliveira...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u94	I conclude now, Mr President. As I was saying, that's what we have to insist on. In particular, issues related to the need to increase pensions, in order to recover the purchasing power of pensioners, who have been severely damaged by this policy, are a fundamental objective for which the CFP continues to beat. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u95	To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u96	Mr President, with the permission of Mr. João Oliveira, I cannot allow a statement here made by Mr. Tiago Ribeiro of the PS, when he made his request for clarification, when he said that the PSD and CDS government left an ‘explosive cocktail’. Mr. Member, and what did the Government of the Socialist Party leave the country in 2011? A country in bankruptcy, a country asking for international aid, a country with 11 % deficit. Be ashamed, Mr. Commissioner, be ashamed of yourself! This is how I am obliged to begin this request for clarification. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u97	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, I ask you and the others, not just yourself, to try to have some restraint in the way we address each other. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u98	What about the "stolen" that came from there? Oh, my God! They called us thieves! We heard « steal», we heard everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u99	The appeal is made and I ask the benches to create conditions for the honourable Member to continue to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u100	Mr President, I would like to ask you to believe that, in my statements, I have even been quite content. I would like Mr President's criterion, which I applaud, to be applied when some benches, particularly from the radical left, make insults, and insults directed at the PSD and CDS benches, with the convivent silence of the Bureau. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u101	The criterion is uniform, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u102	I would like the criterion to be balanced and equal!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u103	The criterion is uniform.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u104	And I am very sorry to have to address these words to you, Mr President, because it was not my intention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u105	Shame on you, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u106	You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u107	Mr. João Oliveira, believe that I respect your efforts. The speech he made in the gallery was a speech inside, was first a speech for his bench and then for his bases of support, it was not a speech for the country nor a speech directed, in the first hand, to this House. It is because it was an explanatory speech of the difficult role that the Communist Party has at this moment in this coalition to three, in which the Communist Party is undoubtedly the weakest link, the secondary element, the constantly diminished element either by the Socialist Party, which assumed the Government, or by the Left Block, which influences the government and dictates its policies that you are obliged to applaud. See what happened this morning: Mrs Mariana Mortágua came to announce to the country a tax that she invented, immediately came a member of the Socialist Party to support the idea and to say that it was a very good tax for the country, it was another tax that would even reduce the tax burden—it is worth us the miracle! — and then the Portuguese Communist Party made the very sad figure of coming, in third place, to jump, from an extended finger, to say: « We also agree, we agree with this».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u108	You're wrong, you're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u109	Mr President, believe that the Communist Party has always deserved my opposition, but my respect, and my deep respect—and I am not ironing—a party that was made in the fight against...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u110	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u111	I would ask you to cut off the time of interruptions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u112	Yes, of course, sir, I have already taken that into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u113	Thank you very much. As I was saying, it is a Communist Party that fought in the fight against dictatorship, before 25 April,... [[BE's laughs.]] ...a Communist Party that always admired its opponents and always deserved their respect for its coherence in its flags. Now, what do we see? A Communist Party that, for the sake of half-power,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u114	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u115	... in order to stop the absolute domain of the Ministry of Education, abandon its flags, abandon its usual reasons and become a mere servant of the ideas of the Left Block, applied by the Government of the Socialist Party. It is regrettable, Mr. João Oliveira, and I am very afraid...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u116	Mr. Deputies, you must conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u117	...that the Communist Party concludes that, by means of a few pieces of power, it is not worth abandoning what has always been. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u118	To reply, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u119	Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, I would like to say, with regard to the words you addressed to the PS, that obviously it is the PS to give you the answer you deserve...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u120	It's not easy, it's not easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u121	...and I'm not intruding on that. But it always gave him a challenge because, in view of the reference to the PS government, which in 2011 left the country in the state in which he left and signed the Memorandum with the troika, it was always justified to ask himself, after all, why the PSD there was committed to the same Memorandum with the troika, that this PS government at the time signed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u122	For the country! For the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u123	It is worth explaining to you the joy that the PSD has committed to this country's destruction programme. I would like to say to you, secondly, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, that I understand that the criteria by which you assess the biased position within the PSD are those. I must tell you that I will not reply to you in that way, because our criteria are different. The criteria of the CFP are not precisely those of the dispute of umbigos in the political-party framework, the criteria with which the CFP guides its position and intervention are based on the commitment it has to the workers and the Portuguese people, according to its political programme, its stance and its commitments to social transformation. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] I can only point out, of course, that the honourable Member highlights the historic heritage of the CFP and the honesty and seriousness of the CFP in the fight against dictatorship. In fact, it is a unique heritage for which you do not find similar reference in the Portuguese party spectrum. And I would like to say to you, Mr President, that if there is any expectation that the CFP will intervene within 42 years after 25 April, it is precisely the pride and honour we have in this historic heritage that we respect and will continue to respect in our political intervention. And I tell you more, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim : as during the dictatorship we fought to overthrow the dictatorship, on behalf of the interests of the Portuguese people, also in 2015 we contributed to overthrow the Government of the PSD and the CDS, on behalf of the interests of the Portuguese people. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]] As during the dictatorship we face repression, imprisonment, torture and even murder, in the name of the greater values of democracy, freedom, equality and social justice, also in 2015 we defeated the Government of the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u124	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u125	...to take advantage of the possibilities that the new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic would allow, so that respect for those rights could return to political practice. I must tell you, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, that it is with great pride and great honour that we do not lose our fundamental prospects for the transformation of society, even though this causes some discomfort to your young criteria of political-party linkage. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u126	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u127	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, you very much like to talk about barricades, Portuguese against Portuguese, taxpayers against taxpayers, users against taxpayers, and therefore you would like me to answer the CDS question : with regard to the real estate heritage of the PCP, which side of the barricade is you on? Are you on the side of the barricade of those who pay the taxes that they should or are on the side of the barricade of those who don't want to pay taxes? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is that, as far as we know, the PCP is on the side of the barricade of those who have extensive real estate but do not want to pay taxes for it. I ask you more: is it on the side of those who pay VAT, when they charge services, or is it on the side of those who do not pay VAT, when they charge services, and thus do unfair competition to others? Oh, my God! [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u128	Secondly, since you are talking about fiscal justice, and this is also fiscal justice, I would like to know why, when you are talking about fiscal justice—and I am already here, days ago, hearing discussions about what taxes are going to increase, if it is the IMI, if it is the IRS rates, if it is this or that — do you not talk about the taxes that you are going to reduce? Oh, my God! So far, I have only heard discussions about the taxes that are going to increase! In fact, today, until they entered a contest: the Block came and said « will increase this », the PS came and said « will increase that » and you said « no, no, we have another suggestion ». This is not an idea contest, sir! If you want to talk about tax justice, then you also talk about taxes that will come down, because that is what Portugal needs. And it is not worth coming here to confuse and try to convince people — I know that the Socialist Party now apparently is trying to create the idea that the period of the troika and the inheritance of leaving the troika and the country on the brink of bankruptcy is a good inheritance, but it is not, Mr President. Members—that we are now living a period equal to that which unfortunately we live in 2011 and that it is now not possible to have another discussion. If you had adopted a sensible, reasonable and gradual policy, we could only have the discussion of taxes that could come down. That was the discussion that the Portuguese would like to have and not this, this real championship to see if this or that tax comes up. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u129	To reply, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u130	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I am grateful for the questions you have raised and, with regard to the barricades, I cannot fail to make this reference to you: you have, for four years, introduced the talk of the barricades to divide the Portuguese and have better conditions to take forward your policy. They tried to turn public administration workers against private sector workers; they turned reformers against active workers; they turned reformers against younger people; they turned qualified young people against unskilled young people. You have ruled for four years to try to break the Portuguese society, because you felt that they had better conditions to take your policy forward. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Unfortunately, reality has come to deny you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u131	And you saw nothing against anyone! In fact, class struggle is our invention!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u132	The honourable Member seems not to have learned from what happened to her bench colleague João Pinho de Almeida, but I would like to say again to her about the IMI that the honourable Member excuses her from trying to call the PCP because we do not have skeletons in the closet nor in relation to submarines, nor in relation to the justifications for funding individuals with names of Jacinto Leite Capelo Rego. Do you remember that, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! We don't have one! [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] And I would like to tell you more, Mrs Cecilia Meireles : in relation to the IMI, if the Member of Parliament wants to be serious, go to the Constitutional Court and confirm, in the accounts of the parties, that the CFP last year paid €29 000 of IMI, I repeat, €29 000 of IMI. And you know what, Mrs. Member? We do not hide the heritage we have or put behind the facades so that it can have another kind of consideration, we declare our heritage and pay the due taxes, either at IMI headquarters or at VAT headquarters, in those activities in which, according to law, we are obliged to pay VAT. [[PCP applause.]] I would still like to answer the questions that you have raised about tax justice. You want to know what taxes are reduced? I'll tell you right away, Your Honor! The IMI will reduce...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u133	Oh, are you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u134	... from 0, 5 % to 0, 45 %, on a proposal from the CFP, approved in the State budget for 2016. [[PCP applause.]] Would you like another example, Mrs. Member? The VAT on restoration has reduced to 13 % after the increase you have made! Here's a second example. [[PCP applause.]] Third example, Mrs. Member : the overtax of IRS will be permanently eliminated from 2017, after the reduction it had in 2016, against the will of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u135	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u136	All this, against the will of the CDS! And, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to abuse Mr President's tolerance, I would like to leave you just two more examples: we will continue to beat ourselves by reducing the PEC (special payment on account) for small and medium-sized enterprises, because we believe that this is a fair measure of who is responsible for a large part of the job in our country; and we will continue to beat us by changing the steps of the IRS, so that those Portuguese who have less income pay less taxes, obviously requiring those who have more income to meet their tax obligations. You see, Mrs. Member? I was sorry to hear all of this, if I had been more attentive to what the PCP has said. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u137	Also for a question, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u138	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, it seems to me that I have become very clear in this debate that the right has very little notion of social justice. When it was time to increase taxes, a public service worker with 800 € was already rich and could already make a cut in this worker's salary; when it was time to increase taxes, a pensioner with 600 € was already rich and could already be cut in that pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pension, and only they didn't do it definitely because there was someone, some parties who went to the Constitutional Court to prevent a definitive cut in the pensions of 600 €. At the time, there was no concern about the middle class. There was concern about lowering the tax on large companies; there was concern about lowering the energy burden on companies while maintaining the overtax of IRS. That was the concern of the right. Today, we arrive here and we have CDS and PSD in opposition to those who now have an estate or a house worth more than 1 million euros is already middle class. There is no notion of fiscal justice, no notion of tax redistribution, because the CDS actually uses the middle class as a shield to defend the rich of more taxes that we want to apply to them. [[Congratulations from BE.]] There is no defense of the middle class! The middle class is the shield you use to protect the rich who will now be more taxed, and well. Nor do they have a middle class notion because the only thing they have to present us here is when the pensions went up. They went up the minimum pensions in 2, 62 €, in the case of pensions of 260 €, but never say that the money they used to raise minimum pensions was money that was taken to the solidarity complement for the elderly, the poorest elderly in this country. They were stolen from the solidarity supplement for the elderly to increase minimum pensions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests of PSD and CDS-PP, having CDS-PP members beaten with their hands on the benches.]] That's never said! That's never said, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't be ashamed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u140	Stealing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u141	You don't need to be ashamed of what you've done! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u142	Mr Nuno Magalhães, you don't need to make that threatening air. The Bureau wants to make a repair to Mrs Mariana Mortágua,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u143	... drawing attention to what measures they take are not necessarily those that justify certain types of terminology.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u144	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u145	My appeal is addressed to all the benches, and I ask the gentlemen. Members understanding for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u146	The words that were used to increase minimum pensions were a word that was subtracted from the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the poorest elderly in this country. The effect is the same. The poorest elderly in this country were left with no solidarity thanks to the CDS, the pensioner's party. Mr. João Oliveira, it seems to me that all these achaques, these chilices, this right-wing strategy of trying to pollute processes, of trying to intrigue in the midst of the parliamentary majority is just one thing: they have no alternative, they have no alternative policy, they have nothing to show, because the only thing they would have to show would be keeping taxes on workers, keeping taxes on pensioners, but never attacking the heritage of the richest. And that's a choice they're going to have to justify why they never did, because they never decided to tax the wealth of the richest in order to relieve the middle class. That is a choice you have not made and you will have to give an answer for it. Mr. João Oliveira, I would like to confirm that we are...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u147	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u148	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are on a path of convergence as to a well-designed strategy to return income, to regain the dignity of the middle class and the dignity of the working class and finally to counter the effects of the increase in poverty that the great protection of the middle class of the PSD and the CDS has made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u149	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u150	Mr President, I am grateful to Mrs Mariana Mortágua for the questions she raised and for the reminder she left here from a point of view which, in part, had already mentioned here earlier, when I referred to the logic of division of the Portuguese, of dividing to reign with which the PSD and CDS Government sought to take forward its political action in the four years in which she was in office. In fact, it is well remembered, because there was a time when the CDS supported pension cut-off measures with doubt, in order to know whether rich pensioners started from 600 € of pension or started from 1000 €. That was where the CDS, at the time, defined the concept of a rich pensioner, was in the 600 €. And it is understood that this was the criterion, because in relation to tax policy the CDS supported and supported a tax policy of tax draw, focusing particularly on the lowest incomes. It is good to remember — it has just been said here, but it is reaffirmed — that only in 2013 the PSD and CDS government increased the collection of IRS by 3226 million, i.e. the collection of people's income tax. And we could ask whether these EUR 3226 million focused on the great fortunes, on the great incomes, on that 1% of the richest. But, in fact, no, they have focused on all the taxpayers, in particular in a more serious way, on those who have the lowest incomes. It is that at that time—as it is always for the CDS—the concept of the middle class was an elastic concept, so elastic according to the convenience of the moment, and the tax sack promoted by the PSD government and the CDS included even increasing taxes for Portuguese who earned 500 € per month. That is, a Portuguese with an annual income of 7000 €, i.e. with an income of 500 € / month, which was in 1. the IRS step was then considered rich by the CDS and the PSD and therefore had to start paying more IRS. In fact, the PSD and the CDS bring to this debate the reference to fiscal policy is a huge shot at the foot, not to say worse. Two parties that supported a government that in three years paid the taxes of four and one party that in three years managed to increase the tax burden on Portuguese in more than EUR 11 billion come for this debate to discuss fiscal policy when what is being dealt with is to restore tax justice at the IRS levels, to reduce VAT, to reduce the IMI, to introduce tax justice mechanisms that tax the real estate of those with more value, is indeed a huge waste. But it is also a more serious thing: it is from those who do not want to take responsibility for the policy they have executed, against the interests of the Portuguese people and who today is blatantly denounced as such. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u151	For a political statement, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recent news tells us that negotiations between the European Union and the United States of America on the TTIP ( Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Treaty ) have failed. That's good news for everyone. For Europeans and Portuguese, for our businesses, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for the environment and for natural resources. Indeed, and as strange as it may seem in a Europe that is so democratic and so transparent, this agreement has been negotiated on the back of the Europeans. Years of clandestineness and far from the sights of the peoples of Europe, they hid papers for no one to see. Shame! That was the TTIP's negotiating process. Until recently, at least in Portugal, the text was not available. Then it turned out to be—it's over! — the Embassy of the United States of America and only for the Members of the Assembly of the Republic. Only a short time ago it was possible for Members of the Assembly of the Republic to consult the text in a reading room of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, even with a number of restrictions and only in the English version. The mystery, secrecy and lack of transparency involved in this process is all the condemnable titles, but at the same time they lead us to an important question: why so much secrecy? The answer can only be one: because this agreement is not good for Europeans and Portugueses, otherwise there would be no reason to hide it from peoples. But more: this secrecy only confirms the suspicion that the main objective of this Treaty was to respond to the demands of large multinationals. from the little we know of its content, we know that it was intended to remove « regulatory barriers », both at the level of environmental requirements, both at the social and labour level, both at the level of food safety; reduce the standards of European demand and regulation in areas such as agro-industry and abolish restrictions on genetically modified organisms; create new markets and open public services, such as education, water and health, to the voracious appetite of multinationals. What was intended to be more economic liberalization and less social protection was to enable multinationals to process States, including authorities, on decisions that could compromise their profits. And to prosecute States not in the courts of each State, but in private courts, in arbitral courts, as multinationals like. In this way to multinationals, the sovereign bodies themselves would be strongly conditioned or even prevented from defending the national interest and the interests of the people, because, firstly, it would be necessary not to disturb the expectation of profits of the multinationals and only then to think about people and in the country. In fact, this faculty that would be given to multinationals to be able to prosecute the State, if it adopted policies that would prevent or hinder its profit margin, in addition to representing a violation of the democratic rule of law, still shows us the boldness of the economic power to attempt to transfer the risks of its investments to the State and to the citizens. What history shows us is that free trade and investment treaties represent a strong tool for protecting the interests of multinationals, creating an armor for legal security of investments and passing over the social, environmental and democratic rights of peoples. I leave only two of the many examples that could be mentioned. A Swedish multinational has processed Germany, requiring EUR 5000 million related to Germany's decision to abandon nuclear energy for renewable energy. Tobacco maker Philip Morris has prosecuted the State of Uruguay and Australia because these countries had the courage to pass anti-smoking laws and the tobacco company claims that it does not have the expected profits in tobacco marketing. That's what the multinationals wanted with the TTIP. An agreement the Greens hope that it will definitely be set aside, requiring the trade and investment agreement between the European Union and Canada, the ECTA ( Global Economic and Trade Agreement ), to know the same destination. What is at stake is whether we allow the economic power to dictate the rules to political power; what is at stake is whether we defend the rule of law and the rule of law or if we give our collective destiny to multinationals; what is at stake is whether we allow the Paris climate change agreements to be forgotten, because they do not interest multinationals. We well know that combating climate change is a mess for multinationals, as it is, in fact, a mess, for example, that in Europe it is only allowed to grow a transgenic while in the United States 150 different varieties of transgenics can be cultivated. TTIP or CETA could solve this problem for multinationals and enable them to transform Europe into a paradise for transgenics and their production. But the Greens say no. And we say not because, for us, it is the multinationals who must be subject to the rules of the States and not the States who must submit to the rules and interests of the multinationals. In conclusion, I wanted to say that it is important now to ensure not only that there are no retreats to the TTIP, because it is effectively out of the agenda, but also that we will expect CETA to have an identical destination. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u153	Three Members have signed up to request clarification. Mr. José Luís Ferreira would like to inform the Bureau of how you wish to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u154	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u155	All right, Mr. Deputies. The first request for clarification is from Mrs Lara Martinho of the Socialist Party, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u156	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, the European Union has defended and negotiated an agreement guaranteeing European interests and, despite criticism of secrecy, the TTIP is probably the agreement that was most voted on with the creation of reading rooms, dialogue groups and public sessions. The European Union has defended a dispute resolution mechanism between States and investors, ensuring national sovereignty over foreign investors and has also advocated an agreement guaranteeing our economic and social model, our quality standards, our rules and our demand for respect for social, environmental, food security and animal protection rights. Above all, this is an agreement that aims to regulate globalisation, with social and environmental standards that will be the benchmark of trade in the world. It is an opportunity to regulate globalization and better control and contain its effects. President Juncker stressed that "the substance is much more important than the deadlines and the European Union will not lower the standards it is used to" and, in the statement by the state of the nation, concluded that "the Commission is ready to conclude an ambitious and balanced agreement". I'd say we're in time and time to get a better deal. In fact, there are more reservations on the side of the United States of America than on Europe itself. I therefore ask you whether you do not believe that when we reach an agreement that safeguards all these European interests, this will also not be a good agreement for Portugal. [[Applause or PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u157	Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP also has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to congratulate Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party for bringing this important issue to the Assembly of the Republic once again, which, in fact, has been very scarce - contrary to what we have heard here - in the discussion in both the Assembly of the Republic and in the involvement of citizens and especially in the knowledge of the peoples, particularly the Portuguese people, of the content of this Treaty. It is not enough to talk here that there is a reading room to allow such access. It is necessary to state the conditions for access to this reading room. It is a reading room to which only high-ranking government dignitaries and parliamentarians in fact have access, because the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese people do not have access to this information. The information comes out thanks to the struggle that many peoples have waged, particularly many Portuguese, especially in the demand for knowledge of the contents of a Treaty which will certainly be harmful to workers' rights, social rights, democracy and the sovereignty of the State. The honourable Member mentioned, from the rostrum, several examples of the negative impact this has on the national economy. It would give us the example of the tomato industry, a very paradigmatic example of the disastrous consequences that this will have for our economy and for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. But, Mr President, the question I would like to put to you is whether you agree with the need of the Portuguese Government, in the context of the negotiating process that is under way between the European Union and the United States of America, to have an active and participatory voice in the intransigent defence of the rights of the Portuguese people, the rights of the national economy, the intransigent right of this Treaty, if you see the light of the day—and we mobilize the Portuguese people and all the people of Europe to fight against this Treaty and the disastrous consequences it has — be scrutinized in the Assembly of the Republic so that it has the opportunity to ratify and vote and, above all, to bring to the knowledge of the Portuguese people the negative consequences it brings to the economy and the rights of the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u159	To make the last request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u160	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Greens Ecological Party for bringing the debate once again on the issues of international trade treaties, TTIP and CETA, the first between the European Union and the United States of America and the second between the European Union and Canada. In fact, the end of these negotiations is good news for European citizens and good news for the environment, for the quality of what we consume daily in our homes. However, despite the good news of the end of the TTIP negotiations, which we hope will have come true, there is still concern about CETA, not only because it continues on the table and negotiations progress, but also because in certain countries there is already the provisional entry of this Treaty, which is also very harmful not only for the European Union but also specifically for our country, whether in agriculture, or in other matters very similar to those of the TTIP. One of the major concerns that remains on the table concerns the power given to large companies and the possibility for large companies to be able to process States, if they adopt necessary public policies, particularly in the areas of health and the environment, contrary to their objective, which is profit. This danger remains on the table, not only in these two Treaties, but because it is something that we want to implement in other international trade treaties. So I put the following question to you: how do the Greens think we can fight this? Finally, I wanted to leave two notes on the issue of transparency in this Treaty. As has often been said by European leaders, but also by leaders from some states, this was the Treaty which has so far been negotiated more transparently. But it is not enough to say that there are restricted reading rooms to say that this transparency existed, because during 13 rounds of negotiation no one knew what was happening to the right and until today there will still be a lot that remains in the dark, and that is also important. The Portuguese Government also had the possibility of a more light treaty if the TTIP did not exist. I would like to ask you how the Greens see this possibility, which is also harmful to Portuguese citizens and other Europeans. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u161	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u162	Mr President, the first record I make has to do with the right-wing silence on such an important matter as this Treaty and the ECTA. In fact, that was the behaviour of the previous government: we didn't know anything, because the government "has shut down" and so they continue to be the PSD and CDS sent to silence on such an important subject for the Portuguese and even for Europe. I would like to thank Mrs Lara Martinho, PS, Carla Cruz, PCP, and Isabel Pires, BE, for the questions they asked me about this matter. Mrs Lara Martinho, it is said that the process has been transparent... We are not talking about the same subject, certainly! When the text is only available in English, with a set of restrictions only accessible to Members and no other citizen, initially only available at the Embassy of the United States of America, we cannot talk about transparency in this regard. We know very little of this Treaty and the little that is known comes from leaks of information such as that which happened in May of this year through Greenpeace. contrary to what the honourable Member said, that the United States of America even had a stance to give in to its regulatory standards, which is strange, we found out, through these leaks of Greenpeace information, that Washington was, for example, trying to change the legislative process of the European Union, reducing regulatory standards particularly with regard to the cosmetics industry and the use of pesticides in agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u163	I'd like to know why the Greens don't talk about glyphosate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u164	But we also learned from the news, including from Euronews, that the United States of America threatened to boycott imports of European cars if Brussels did not open the market to American transgenic food. So you've already seen who was yielding and who wasn't. If it's good for Portugal? No, it is not, and it is not good for a simple reason: these treaties are made by multinationals. We do not have multinationals, and even those who have been silent and now take advantage of to speak, do we believe that our small and medium-sized companies are up to compete with the American multinationals? It's easier to believe in Santa Claus! Mrs Carla Cruz, ratification of the procedure is required. In fact, that is why we have here a debate on this subject, because we hope that the TTIP will actually be abandoned, but that CETA will pass through the Assembly of the Republic, because the representatives of the Portuguese people will have to take a decision on such an important matter as this, which moves with all areas of our lives, with the sovereignty of the State and with many interests of the Portuguese. We will therefore continue to demand that ratification of this ECTA Treaty take place here in Parliament. Mrs Isabel Pires, in fact, with regard to reading rooms, finally, with the English version in which it was not possible to take notes, is the "transparency" to which we have been used to these treaties, in a Europe that is so transparent and so democratic! To extend the Treaty, as the honourable Member said, is certainly even worse, because if that is already what it is, you can imagine what is to extend the scope of these Treaties even further. What matters here is to say that, on the Green side, we hope that the TTIP will be abandoned and that CETA will follow the same path, because both CETA and TTIP have the same consequences, only the recipient varies: in one case is the United States of America and in another Canada. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u165	To give the following political statement from the PSD, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr President, I would take advantage of you to wish all of you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, good work is being done in this new Legislative Session that we have now begun. At the beginning of this week, he met in Coimbra the largest parliamentary group in this House. In Parliamentary Days the PSD Parliamentary Group met for two days, where we had the opportunity to discuss, hear, debate with those we considered the best for the issues we wanted to have in mind. We were careful, as is our custom, not to listen to those who think as we do; we wanted to open our Parliamentary Days to militants from other parties, independent people, to the tables of the Academy, to all those who wanted and could help build proposals for the future. We have taken advantage of this to deepen the debate on European construction. Once again it became clear which side the PSD is on. The PSD, in this debate, is on the side of those who want a stronger, more united and solidarityary Europe, but also a Europe in which their Member States do not shake the water from the hood, they do not pass on to blame and each bear their responsibilities. We have taken advantage of our Parliamentary Days to speak of European funds, to give the country a very clear message once and for all, not that the country has not yet understood, but to reaffirm the truth of the facts concerning the Community funds. While some have executed, others demand execution; while others do, others advertise. We proposed and highlighted the value of our public school, state and non-state public school. We discuss the model that we want for our teaching and, once again, conclude that we want a teaching of necessity, with stability and that we promote the merit of your students, all contrary to what the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) has done and that your disciple, the Minister of Education, has followed. We have evaluated the government's economic model course, and here we have not only looked at those that were your forecasts—I am no longer talking about the so forgotten and so remote forecasts of that macroeconomic scenario—we have looked at and compared the forecasts of the State budget with the figures that are now factual, which are now known and, in this matter, we have once again, as we have had the opportunity to say, that your model has really failed. If, on the one hand, your Government — yours, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Socialist Party — has said that investment has failed in exports on the other hand, it has weakened consumption on the other hand — see, the consumption, which was the touchstone of your economic model, and now they are left with the deficit. It is really the government who is attached to the deficit target to have something to point out to their voters, even because what they promised most, what would bring down the deficit without having to increase taxes, economic growth, which even the Socialist Party and the Government have succeeded in stalling. During these two days, in the PSD Parliamentary Days, we have not stayed here, we have not only done the government assessment, we have also proposed to build ourselves. That is why we have presented and discussed a number of legislative initiatives that we want to discuss in this House: legislative initiatives on health, on low-density territories, on education, and we have announced even a legislative initiative with a view to the effective creation of a building register, which can also be essential to help prevent fires. in these matters we want to see the other side of the Socialist Party, which so much calls on the PSD to present proposals and we want to see whether the Socialist Party recognizes the merit of our proposals and, once and for all, drops the ideological burden of a government and an ideology still attached to the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, while the PSD was evaluating the government and preparing for the future and the new Legislative Session, the country is assisting the unbeliever by continuing to break down the confidence we have gained in recent years. It was the alarm announced by Mr. Minister of Finance, putting on the table the hypothesis of a second rescue, and it was the announcement of new and new taxes that no one has yet explained but that they already scare all Portuguese. And as if it wasn't enough, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country has seen the fact that the Prime Minister — that Prime Minister who for months appealed to the members of his Government, with a serious and serious air, who would never forget, wherever he was, to the coffee table, that they were members of the Government, members of the Republic, so they would have to be very careful in the language and expressions they used — probably imbued with some childish spirit, which probably made him believe in flying cows, to ask the Minister for Finance to be « hunting pokémons».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u167	You want to finish, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u168	Now this has been said in a school, and a kind of language has been used that seems to us from a political point of view to be all less coherent. The truth is that Mr. Prime Minister ended the week by asking Mr. Minister of Finance — yes, he is the only one who can put that hat on, because he is the only one who speaks of a second bailout in the public square — to go 'get pokémons'. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't a good week for the Socialist Party, it wasn't a good week for the government and, above all, it wasn't a good week for the country. Mr President, I conclude by saying that, unfortunately, what we can see is that the Government of the Left is working hard to break the efforts of all Portuguese. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u169	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, the Bureau registered four Mrs for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u170	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u171	That being the case, you have the floor, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u172	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I would like to begin by welcoming you, at your bench, for the holding of your party's Parliamentary Days. Mr President, let me tell you that, from your speech, I have retained two essential aspects. First, he tried to rewrite the history of the structural funds, but it was curiously about the structural funds which Mr President of the Republic said we are two years behind. I said that last week, on September 12.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u173	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u174	The criticism that has been made did not come from these banks, the criticism came from the authorships, from the CCDRs, from the companies. They say that there is no implementation of the Community funds, they say that until the time this government took possession there was no financial implementation. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, the criticism is not these benches, is a clear observation in the Portuguese economy that even the President of the Republic underlined. But let me put another point forward: Mr. Deputies insisted on the the thesis of the revenue that failed, but a Member of this House, this September 2016, being the opposition, failed to say that there is a problem with the unemployment rate, because it has fallen, it is a great achievement of these banks, it is a great success of this government. The unemployment rate is falling, the deficit is falling. They say we have the debt with problems. We certainly have problems with debt, but you know that much of this debt comes from problems in the financial sector that this government inherited and had to solve. [[PSD protests.]] Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, as a result of your Parliamentary Days also emerges a division. It is that in this bench we still do not realize whether the PSD, this year, comes to play and presents proposals for the State Budget or will be brewed, as you did last year, and will remain outside the parliamentary debate, not contributing to defending the voters who voted in VV. Ex. [[PSD protests.]] The question I wanted to leave is the following: does PSD come or does it not come to play? Will the PSD stay at home or will you defend those who voted on it? I hope that this time it does not bring the confidence that some Portuguese have deposited on your bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u175	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u176	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I do not fully understand the content of your political statement. I'll try to touch some of the issues you've addressed. The honourable Member has come here to ask for a stronger Europe to be reflected. We have never heard the PSD make any criticism of this Europe, a Europe that is now criticized by the left and by more conservative sectors, which identify the structural and institutional problems of European configuration. We have never heard a PSD criticism of Europe. Question: When asking for a stronger Europe, what are you asking for? More discretionary power for Europe? A stronger Europe to impose sanctions, as does the countries that have sacrificed themselves and imposed austerity policies, and which is why have failed the economic goals? A stronger Europe to impose sanctions on each other and not others? A stronger Europe to sign agreements with Turkey to keep refugees at their doors, at the gates of death because they cannot enter Europe? Is Europe stronger than you're asking for? Or will we ever see a critical reflection on Europe and on the ways in which Europe is taking it to destroy it? What is the critical reflection the PSD makes on Europe today? No one knows the critical reflection of the PSD because apparently it only demands more strength in Europe without realizing that the strength of Europe is today the strength of Germany, it is today the strength of the financial lobby and it is also the weakness of democracy and the weakness of national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u177	You're distracted! You're worried about Korea!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u178	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares came here too — and it has often been seen — great criticism of the smiles, the language, the words used by the Prime Minister. What about politics? What about political measures? What about the political directions? It seems that we are only now discussing the case, home, language, smile, expression and politics and political measures are not going into the debate! [[PSD laughter.]] I have to tell you, Mr President, that it is with some strangeness that I see the PSD focus on criticizing the Socialist Party's government, saying that it is obsessed with the deficit and that it lives for the deficit. I understand that this is a viable criticism from the point of view of the Block, I do not understand how this can be a criticism made by the PSD, because the logical consequence of this criticism is to say that the PS government can meet the goals of the deficit as well as the PSD government could achieve, but can do it by returning incomes. So this can only mean bad PSD, because it means that it is possible to do the same in terms of fiscal consolidation by returning incomes. Question: What is the PSD alternative? If the PSD wants to meet the deficit targets but doesn't want to return income, does it mean that the alternative is not returning income? Is it leaving everything the way it was?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u179	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u180	Is it to continue in austerity? It seems to me that this is the alternative, and that is why they do not have the courage to state. We have an alternative and we are able to identify budgetary implementation, macroeconomic unemployment and say that, yes, the country needs a restructuring of debt, which, yes, the country needs more public investment. But we have the means to do it. You don't come up with a proposal that is no longer austerity. Mr President, in your Parliamentary Days you have heard different people and have held several debates, so we are waiting to see whether these various debates are going to come out for the state budget this year or whether we will, in fact, continue to see a PSD with a political useless position in another budgetary process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u181	To reply, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u182	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mr Eurico Brillante Dias for her questions. In fact, we realize today that the discourse that was from the Left Block and the Socialist Party no longer exists with regard to the economic model that they defended and which motivated until the overthrow of the government that came out of the popular vote in the last legislative elections. At that time the Socialist Party, seconded by the Left Block and, say, by the Portuguese Communist Party, said that the way to reduce the deficit was to have more economic growth — we saw a growth of 1, 5 and the Socialist Party came to propose growth in the order of the 2, 5 in the macroeconomic scenario, which was then down. Moreover, I do not remember well whether Mr Eurico Brillante Dias was part of such economists in the macroeconomic scenario, but I believe that, with the conviction he has defended and with the numbers that are now known, he should almost certainly not be part of it, but he agrees at all. But I was saying that the Socialist Party's policy was to increase public investment and increase private investment. Mr President, public investment and private investment have fallen sharply and have even decimated the investment and policies of this government. Consumption was the touchstone that would grow the economy above 2 %. Now, consumption, see, is below what was in 2015, is below all the forecasts of the Socialist Party. Exports are already growing much less than they grew in 2015. Mr President, the conclusion I draw from all of this is that economic growth is stagnation, it is far below the forecasts of the Socialist Party — of which we have always mistrusted — but above all much below what was recorded at the end of 2015. The fact is that reducing the deficit as you want to do, at the cost of taxes—still starting from a 3 % target, when we come from an approximate target of 11 % — is indeed a big top. In addition, they do not pay to health providers, hide expenses, mask budget execution, increase taxes and still boast that they are meeting the budgetary targets. of the two, one : either the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, in short the Government, assume that the model has failed and that there is now a new austerity, which is to have to increase taxes to do what we were already doing—and I already mean that part—, or then the Socialist Party assumes that the model it defended has failed. Mrs Mariana Mortágua asked me a very simple question, whether the PSD is against the return of income, against the payment of pensions. Mrs Deputy, I would like to remind you, because you probably do not remember or are doing a selective forgetting exercise, that who began to return the salaries cut in the Public Administration was the previous government, which, curiously, had been cut off by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE and PS protests.]] The government that ceased to cut pensions in Portugal was the 2015 government, but the government that started the cuts in pensions was the 2010 government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u183	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u184	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. I get this. The coherence I see today in the Members of the Socialist Party in defending this economic model—and I want to do justice—is the same consistency with which they defend the economic model of the Government of Eng. José Socrates. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u185	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u186	Mr. President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, said this was not a good week for the government. Not really, but the truth is it was a much worse week for Portugal, and that is what concerns us. It is curious that we are trying to divert our discussions to other matters. But what the PCP and the Block said when they were in opposition and during the election campaign was that if they were government Portugal would grow more. They said that the priority would be economic growth and that we would forget public finances, forget about how much money is spent and where money comes from and that the economy would grow. But what do we see? What we see—and they can take the turns they understand—is that Portugal, unfortunately, is growing less than it was growing last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u187	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u188	This means that you have come to promise an economic growth of 2, 4 % and now what you have to present is a growth of 0, 9 %, which is quite less than half, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. And it does not fail to be extraordinary that — I have heard one honourable Member say — now say: "This was not a promise, this was just a macroeconomic scenario. Do not keep on seeking. ” Perhaps they could have said that to the Portuguese people, because I think what any Portuguese understood was that you were committing yourself to greater growth and that what you have to present is substantially lower growth. And that also means returns of income, because if you had had had adequate policies, we would now have more income to distribute. That is the fundamental problem of your policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u190	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I would like to ask you if you think it is reasonable that the government has decided to increase, and much, the taxation of petrol and gasoline. We're talking more than 500 million euros. And much of this increase in taxes — no matter how much! — do you know where you went, Mr? More EUR 360 million of interest paid for public debt this year? Each Portuguese paid, because of your policies and your irresponsibility, plus €36 for interest only during these nine months. Frankly, I don't think that's what they promised. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u191	To make the last request for clarification, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u192	Mr. President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, his speech was on the PSD Parliamentary Days. Parliamentary days are always a relevant event in the activities of the parliamentary groups, but, honourable Member, to evaluate the content of their intervention, the PSD Parliamentary Days will not have been particularly interesting. It is because he referred to the proposals that went out of Parliamentary Days, but indeed he did not tell us what those proposals would be, so we look forward to knowing which proposals the PSD has to present to the country and, above all, whether these proposals are going to increase investment, increase people's available income, which, according to the PSD, undermines their confidence in the country, or go towards the policies of the PSD / CDS government, increase austerity, increase the sacrifices on the Portuguese of lower incomes, because that is the way to contain the deficit, balance the public finances and comply with the taxes that come to us from the European Union. Therefore, we are very curious about what the PSD will make in the nearest times and how they will go. But one thing is right: according to the one who has been the PSD speech, any proposals you make are critical in the light of the PSD speech. It is that whenever any action is announced to increase the income available to the Portuguese people, you are criticising. We have heard PSD leaders criticize the possibility of increasing pensions, saying that this undermines the efforts that the country has been making in terms of the balance of public finances. That is to say, any measure of positive sense is against you, but then you are criticizing that there must be more investment and more growth. Therefore, you understand, because we would like to know in particular what they have to propose to the Portuguese so that we can effectively assess whether the PSD wants to continue the policies of the last four years, the four years in which it was in the government, because it seems that for the PSD and CDS that period was a black box, in which nothing happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u193	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u194	I will finish, Mr President, but I would like to say the following: to evaluate why the PSD speech has been since November 2015, in September 2016 there was no country anymore! This is because the PSD has already announced dozens of times the flood over the country, but indeed this flood does not occur. You speak very confidently, but I would like to say to you, Mr President, that the only confidence the Portuguese had in the time of the PSD/CDS government was on election day, in which you could be removed from power, as they were. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u195	That's why we won!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u196	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u197	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions put by Mrs Cecilia Meireles and Mr António Filipe, and I would like to begin by answering Mr António Filipe, telling him that he is either in fact living in a separate world or necessarily wanting to run away from reality in this House. This for two reasons. First, because with regard to the conclusions of the PSD Parliamentary Days or the honourable Member did not hear what I said or did not read news and did not watch television in recent times or, then, imagined that the PSD Parliamentary Days were some kind of meetings of the Central Committee...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u198	Much more productive and much more positive!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u199	...where, in fact, yes, they have a kind of black box, because nobody knows what's going on. I will speak to you and list you several proposals for which you would like to know how the Portuguese Communist Party will vote. But, even with regard to this imaginary world where you seem to be living, you say that the Portuguese were waiting for the day of the elections! In fact they were, they happened on the marked date. But do you know what happened on election day? You know?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u200	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u201	I will tell you, Mr Commissioner: the PSD and CDS coalition has won the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u202	We are already in another legislative session!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u203	Sir, do you remember that? You think it was the Portuguese Communist Party that won the elections? With regard to the proposals of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask Mr António Filipe, who will certainly have the opportunity to speak on them, whether or not he agrees that the creation of low-density territories is a good proposal or not. Is the Assembly of the Republic discussing regional asymmetries, discussing low-density territories and taking measures to help these populations good or bad? Is it a matter of national relevance or not? Mr António Filipe, put the Government of the Socialist Party, which you support, to pay to whom, in particular, debts in the health sector, is good or bad for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the truth and transparency of public accounts? Mr António Filipe, tell me if you think it is right or you think it is wrong to create a cadastral information system that aims to help prevent fire fighting where we can all know who it is. Or, in the light of the concrete proposals from the PSD, of which I will now list some, will you continue to laugh later and to say that the PSD has no proposals, which do not know what the PSD wants for the country? Mr. Deputies, politics is not worth everything. And you can say as many times as you want you don't know what the PSD has to present to the country, but the country knows, and I repeat and remind you. And it was to know that you gave us the election victory in the last elections and that you haven't digested it yet. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u204	It looks like an Asterix debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u205	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for an explanation to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u206	You have the floor to Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u207	Mr. President, he asked the Bureau to bring Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares to the decisions of the Constitutional Court Nos. 353 / 2012, 479 / 2013 and 2014, which demonstrate that in respect of retired or cut pensions, income cuts or the impossibility of the extension of new wage cuts were decided by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it was not the work of the Government, but the decision of the Constitutional Court. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u208	Madam Member, it is recorded, although the honourable Member has invoked an incorrect figure, because it was not actually an inquiry into the conduct of the work. You now have the floor, for a political statement, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u209	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: At the beginning of this Legislative Session, it is worth trying to understand how the world is going, what has been achieved in this short period of the new parliamentary majority and what the current challenges in the areas of education and knowledge. Democracy and freedom, which we have conquered just over 40 years ago, is not shared by most peoples. And even in the most robust democracies, inequalities do not stop increasing, making many of the achievements achieved remain the privilege of few. The global challenges in the areas of education, health, justice, employment and economics, security, energy and access to information and knowledge, from science to culture, increase in complexity from year to year. But who does not believe today that education and knowledge are still the two most powerful instruments for our personal realization and for the construction of free, inclusive, ambitious, just and sustainable societies? Let me recall phrases such as: « Education and teaching are the most powerful weapons you can use to change the world» by Nelson Mandela. Or: "The best way to fight terrorism is not with weapons. It is with pens, books, teachers and schools», by Malala Yousafzai. The Lisbon Strategy has put forward a knowledge-based Europe. Today, Europe 2020 continues to emphasise its innovative knowledge and applications. We all know that much of what we ambition will depend on how the resources of this program will be used and on which our responsibilities are enormous. In the previous Legislative Session, we devoted a significant part of our energies to passing the message that the austerity to which we were subjected had been disproportionate and unfair and to introducing relevant legislative measures that clearly showed that new winds guided us on this journey that we started with our political partners. We fought again to gain the confidence of Portuguese and Portuguese, so that our young people could return to their passions and realize their dreams, and that the bet on inclusive education and knowledge would again be a priority for the country. in this struggle we all bear in mind that certain battles were tough and that some decisions made by this House were not consensual. The Socialist Party and the XXI Constitutional Government have enshrined education and training as fundamental foundations for the valorization of people, the development of the country and the construction of a more cohesive and progressive society. It was consistent that the Council of Ministers approved on 3 June the Commitment to Knowledge and Science agenda for the years 2016 to 2020, where particular relevance is given to the challenges of the qualification of Portuguese, the strengthening of scientific employment and the convergence of investment for the achievement of European targets. The calm manner as the start of this school year in public schools well illustrates the enormous effort that was made by all, teachers, school directors and ministry, so that the approximately 7,300 teachers, 500 more than last year, knew on September 1 in which school would be placed and that the number of teachers without a school component would be reduced to half: from 1500 to less than 700. At the start of higher education it is estimated that the total number of students admitted to public education through the national access competition reaches around 46,700, plus 6 % more than in 2015. Legislature contracts have been signed with universities and public policies and the National Open Science Policy has been launched ; programmes to enhance and modernise polytechnic education and a new legal regime to support scientific employment have been approved. The Science 2016 event, involving more than 4500 participants among students, researchers, entrepreneurs, journalists and parliamentarians for 3 days, allowed to focus on the most urgent challenges. Strengthening an exhaustive dialogue with all partners, the objectives of the two ministries for the school year that is now beginning will be: combating failure and early school dropout; promoting equality of opportunity and social mobility; valuing public school, qualifying the curriculum and modernizing school administration; focusing schools on the quality of education and learning, valuing their professionals; modernizing, qualifying and diversifying higher education; and enhancing investment in science and technology, democratizing and disseminating knowledge and innovation. All these objectives are ambitious and internationally recognized as priorities. The expectations and work we have in front of us are enormous. What will be possible to achieve will depend on many factors: trust, financing, much work and convergence. Careful and validated use of funding is essential. No one fears how much work will be needed, as long as they feel confidence and that unemployment is rapidly coming about. I know I'm not the only one who wants us to build convergences together. After all, our dreams for future generations are not very different. We all believe that knowledge builds up through curiosity and imagination; that the most noble function of education is precisely to stimulate this curiosity and imagination; and that the ability to ask different questions, to imagine new answers and to realize is what most valuable we carry with us. I conclude by saying the following: I am sure that when future generations assess the work we have done in this House, it will be our ability to respond to the real aspirations of the country that we will be valued. in this new Legislative Session, I hope that we can spend much less time reviewing the past and much more time imagining the schools of the future and the knowledge necessary for these futures and that we can benefit from the accumulated motivation and experience of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u210	Mr President, four of us have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u211	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u212	Of course, Mr. Deputies. To request clarification, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u213	Mr President, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, I would like to begin by complimenting you, without surprise but with all the relevance, to bring to this plenary the subject of education and knowledge. If I may, I would focus my request for clarification on the opening of the school year, which, as you know, is on the agenda. First, the PSD Parliamentary Group wants, at this very important moment for Portuguese families, to leave a word of thanks to all the education professionals who, year after year, exceed themselves so that students have the best conditions to start their school work. We also leave in this House a very meaningful vote of an excellent school year for all students and their families. May I have the ladies. Members who share with you a message I received yesterday from students from a school in 1. the cycle and it said: "Welcome! Go and bring your dreams with you." in this house, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to contribute so that all our children can realize their dreams. They do not count on us to wish or even encourage difficulties in opening the school year, but they do not contain us either to see them or not to see them according to the government is on the right or on the left. Mr. Deputies, the chaos at the opening of the school year was instigated, it was announced, it was decreed by the left parties during the governments of the PSD and the CDS. With this party-union convergence government everything, but everything would be much better...! Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, with all due respect, let me ask you: do we still have teachers to put? We have. Do we still have students in containers? We have. Do we have schools with bad physical conditions and fibrosis? We have. Do we have schools with blind cuts in their budgets? We have. Do we have more employees in schools? No, we don't. Do we have more psychologists in schools? No, we don't. Do we have teachers with zero-time? We have. Do we have mixed classes? We have. Do we have the universality of pre-school? No, we don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u214	Mr President, I will ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u215	I will finish, Mr. President. Do we have fired teachers, fired operational assistants, layoffs, students with interrupted educational paths, distressed families insensitively? We have. We have, Mr. Deputies, a more ideology and concern about the interests of students at least. Do we have Prof. Mário Nogueira? We have.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u216	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u217	We have, but he's a new man. Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u218	Sir, you've already used 3 minutes. He wants to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u219	I'll finish. This school year has opened up, much to be done, but the ideological burden with which they are contaminating it leaves this Parliamentary Group very anxious for the future. Mr President, I would like to hear about this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u220	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u221	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Alexandre Quintanilla on his speech and, echoing the PSD statements, to wish all the educational communities in the country the greatest success in this new school year. I have heard Mr Alexandre Quintanilla talk about the need to respond to the real aspirations of the country and, above all, talk about the present. As you know, you have found in the CDS and me specifically echoed these concerns. About the present I have a few things to say. The first of these is that at present the ranks of unemployment were enlarged with about 500 teachers and non-teachers due to the unnecessary and ideological closure of schools with an association contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u223	I'm unemployed for that which has increased, it's frightening, with great disappointment by the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) and the FENPROF,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u224	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u225	...that, now, was surprised by these numbers and by this reality, despite the successive alerts we made here. I also speak of the 500 teachers who were added this year to schools as contractors. unlike the previous government, which has bound some 4000 teachers to the tables for three years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u226	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u227	...this government has bound 100. Other issues of the present have to do with higher education and with the reports that have been widely propagated that, finally, the number of applications for higher education with growth has been reversed so far not seen. I must remember that since 2014 this trend has been reversed and in 2015 there has been an 11 % increase in higher education applications and not a 2% increase like this year. Having said this, I would like to talk about the present, but about the facts of the present, because it is not enough to speak in serenity, to propagate it and wish that the unions aligned with this serenity calm the opening of the school year, because if we do not base ourselves on the reality that people are living we will never have an informed debate and we will never be able to do that course that Mr Alexandre Quintanilla spoke about. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u228	Thank you very much, Mrs Deputy, for your restraint. To reply, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u229	Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, by the questions you asked me. It is clear to most Portuguese that there has been a significant change in how this Government has decided to support inclusive education and knowledge for all Portuguese. I said clearly in my speech that the problems are not all solved, that many of them have come from several previous pasts, and that therefore there are many serious problems that still have to be solved in Portugal in relation not only to secondary and basic education, but also to higher education. I am not going to debate here whether the numbers are right or wrong, but I have different numbers of those that have been mentioned and we can then confirm them, but what is a fact is that probably the great and overwhelming majority of the country feels that there is a new momentum in relation to the bet on teaching, education and seeking knowledge in all areas of knowledge, from the most abstract sciences to social sciences and human sciences. I think there is no doubt about that. So, what I'm asking the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because I know that both Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa take very seriously the question of education and knowledge, is that we can stop talking about what happened earlier and bet on all our batteries to develop what we want Portugal's future for our children in all areas of knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u230	Thank you very much, Mr, also for the containment, because it had 3 minutes to answer and only used 2. To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u231	Mr President, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, the balance sheet for the academic year and its compliments I will shortly leave for the political declaration of the Left Block. However, I wanted to ask you about the challenges of a society and a country that makes a commitment to knowledge and takes it very seriously. And this challenge is to think as follows: we have a commitment to knowledge, but above all, what kind of commitment is that we can assume with the present and the future agents and protagonists of that knowledge. From this point of view, I wanted to ask you two questions, the first on higher education, in particular on access to higher education. It has been analyzed and the Left Block has said that the tips are increasingly a barrier that should not exist as such for the access of young Portuguese and young people to higher education. The tips should not even be a source of funding from universities, this should be for public investment, but at the moment the tips are one of the main sources of funding from universities. A minimum consensus was reached on the freezing of some propines recently. The question is whether we can advance this consensus, in the spirit of commitment and convergence to which you appealed in your intervention, for the freezing of tips in the remaining teaching cycles and for a future reduction in the value of tips in order to walk to free higher education as a condition of democratic higher education. The second question has to do with scientific employment. The commitment to scientific employment recognises, and well, that scientific workers are workers, that there is scientific work and that, therefore, these workers should be given not scholarships but contracts. My question is very clear: do we think that such contracts should be precarious contracts or, with contracts, should they give stability to those who promote scientific work? Is it not a weakness of this scientific employment regime that only provides for a three-year contract with the possibility of renewal? Can this not become a new instability and a new form of precariousness this time, not with scholarships but with precarious contracts? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u232	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u233	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, I welcome you also on the subject which brought this first plenary at the beginning of the Legislative Session. You will certainly agree that once again, discussing such important issues as education, science and the need for greater investment in strategic areas for development, PSD and CDS, it seems that you have erased from your memory all the consequences of your government's policies over the past four years which have profoundly degraded schools, access, conditions of frequency, with a huge attack on workers' rights, brutal dismissal of workers, incentive to precariousness... In fact, it was policies that in no way have increased education, knowledge and science in our country. in this period of this political solution we can already say that a set of measures has already been approved, including with the contribution of the CFP — indeed, were measures that the CFP had long been defending, such as the end of the examinations of the 4. it's 6. the year, the end of the PACC (test of assessment of knowledge and skills), the freeness of school textbooks, which I believe is one of the positive measures that even mark this school year start. We know that they are insufficient and that we need to go further. However, in this further way, in order to have a stake in education, we can have adequate conditions in schools, we can provide children and young people in our country with the appropriate teaching and learning process, an investment in school success, a great investment is needed. An investment in human resources, putting an end to precariousness... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u234	... because it is not with precarious working conditions that we will be able to qualify for public school and also qualify for the science of our country. It is necessary to guarantee the rights of teachers...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u235	Mrs Paula Santos, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u236	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, it is necessary to guarantee the rights of teachers, the rights of scientific workers that allow them to have stability and the same recognition, but it is also necessary to guarantee the conditions particularly with regard to students, to strengthen school social action, to continue this path initiated, for example, with the freeness of school textbooks so that they can go further and extend it to more students, because in fact those who are the constitutional principles of the right to education, equality in access and success at school, but also...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u237	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u238	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, equality in school access and success, but also the free teaching of our country are proposed by which the CFP has come to beat, and will continue to do so - and it will also be that it is necessary to go further, as well as mentioned, in qualification and knowledge in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u239	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor, which is available for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u240	Mr President, Members of Parliament Joana Mortágua and Paula Santos were put in by VV. These are essentially two questions: the issue of propines, which, within the Socialist Party, has been very much debated and has been presented several times as a challenge by Socialist Youth. And it is obvious that, although the tips are not the most important part of the funding of universities, they represent only about 30%, we all wish that this component in the financing of higher education could be reduced. I hope that, in line with what will be possible in the coming years, some steps can be taken in this direction. I do not know what speed is possible, because, as you all know, we have significant economic limitations, but I think it will be a wish that the tips can be reduced and that they no longer be a major part of the financing of public education institutions. This must also be discussed with public education institutions, and I think it might be one of the points of debate in the coming months and in the coming years. The second question raised was that of precariousness, not only in contracts for researchers and people involved in increasing knowledge in all areas, but also the end of the precariousness of many situations in school that we face every day. He could not agree more — I think the Socialist Party too, and he has been debating this — with the idea of introducing school textbooks in 1. the year of 1. the free cycle and the possibility of it being extended to other years of 1. the cycle, which is part of the intentions of the government, and I therefore believe that this is within the framework of what not only the PS but also, I hope, the vast majority of the parties in this House can defend. With regard to the precariousness of employment in the field of knowledge, it is a fact that, at this time, this precariousness still exists, but I think that a very important step has been taken in relation to the former Government to try to make for many of these researchers the possibility of having a stable situation for years as they develop their scientific activity. It is very important for people entering the world of knowledge not to be concerned about whether they will continue to be for two, three, four, or up to five years with some indication of security at least that kind of job. It is also an area that needs to be developed and I hope that the parties in this House will be able to arrive at convergences on these two issues that have been presented here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u241	For a political statement, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « There are schools that are cages and schools that are wings », declared Lucas this morning on the first day of the 3rd class. the year of the Basic School No. 2 of Alhos Vedros. The image is very simple, but it reflects very well the expectations of an eight-year-old boy about his renewed school at the beginning of a school year, which, by coincidence, is also the date on which we resume the parliamentary work. It remains whether or not we will be affected by Luke’s enthusiasm and ensure, on this side, what he does in his school either: a school that is not a cage. As he will be evaluated by his school results throughout life, we will also be evaluated by the quality of the school he receives. It is a rigorous assessment and it is a good thing, because there is a lot of the country's future and the fight against social inequalities. One of the most important moments of this judgment, this evaluation, is the start of the school year, in which quietness or distress we can anticipate the problems or facilities of the rest of the year. Having all schools in the country working correctly on the date set for the start of the classes is a very modest objective, however, rarely achieved in recent history. That is what we are debating today. We are not here to make the biased balance sheet, it is not right here to tell whether this year started well or bad for the PSD or whether this year started well or bad for the CDS. What we're interested in is to balance the beginning of the year for students, their families, teachers, technicians, operational assistants and we're going to make that balance. The end of the abuse of association contracts mobilized the country for the defense of public school and freed resources. If we avoid the waste of public money and strengthen the public school, then we start the year better or worse? For PSD and CDS, we started worse, but the truth is that the country is better. Let's look at another simple thing: the placement of teachers. The idea is to have all teachers in schools when the year begins. It's simple, isn't it? But the PSD and CDS government never managed to do that. In 2014 the chaos was so great that one month after the beginning of the school year there were still students without classes due to lack of teachers. This year, all available times were completed by a national competition, still in August. If the end of the school scholarship allowed teachers to have teachers in schools in time and time, the PSD and the CDS have to explain why this is bad. If 80 000 children of 1. the year of 1. the cycle had the right to free school textbooks without the planned right chaos, so the PSD and the CDS will have to balance this measure and tell 80 000 families whether or not they support the free distribution of school textbooks. [[Congratulations from BE.]] If we start the year with new programs against school failure; if exams and rankings were definitely replaced by measurement; if the flexibility of curricular goals brings together consensus, then what is the balance sheet? Are we now closer or further away from giving Lucas the school he wants and is not cage? The reality is so clear that even the President of the CDS recognizes it: the beginning of the school year is no longer a drama. Then we can discuss whether the merit of no drama is from the unions, as Assumption Cristas said, whether it is from the government or whether the merit of a quiet year is from the Left Block. One thing is certain: this merit is not from the CDS, that merit is not from the PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But in addition to this anxious tranquility, more needs to be demanded: there are shortcomings that daily undermine the ability of the public school to respond to all and everyone with quality education. The most noted at the beginning of this year is the lack of operational assistants and assistants and this problem has to be solved without recourse to temporary and cheap contracts. Whether in teachers, whether in assistants or technicians, the school giving wings is not compatible with the lack of the rights of its professionals, nor with the unemployment of tens of thousands of teachers. The PSD and the CDS lack the consensus between the educational community that condemns work insecurity in schools and during the last government, promoters of the same precariousness. Today, to break the legacy of Nuno Crato, the disaster of Nuno Crato, we must renew this consensus against precariousness in schools, as one of the most important defenses of public school. Today we definitely have to end the legacy and break the policies of Nuno Crato in schools. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The Left Block is available for this consensus. The Left Block is available for this advance. This is the great challenge for the parliamentary majority and for this government and I can only now greet all the students and students who today and this week have started their classes, all the teachers and teachers, technicians, assistants, all those in charge of education and all the families and also all the Members who today have resumed their parliamentary work with hope and conviction that Lucas' enthusiasm also enthus us to make a better and better public school for all and for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u243	Mrs. Joana Mortágua, three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. I ask the honourable Member how do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u244	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u245	Since the honourable Member wishes to answer together, Mr Porfirio Silva has already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u246	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I would like to begin by welcoming her, and to the Left Block, for bringing the issue of education and the opening of the school year to this session and I would like to say the following: there is a lot of work to do, which no one can doubt. in this bench we do not believe in miracles, in any kind of miracles, but also we do not believe in miracles in the sense of "foot-to-hand" transformations of the real conditions we work with. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to be in the School Group Dr. Serafim Leite, in São João da Madeira, where I had the opportunity to contact students and teachers from various cycles and the truth is that the "devil" that some promised for September also did not come to education, and that is good. Unlike those who are only able to work on the prophecies of misfortune, we prefer to work on the need to keep going and on the need to continue what this government and that this parliamentary majority have managed to do and that it is, together, each starting from its points, each starting from what he said and that he defended in the past, we can build convergences to move forward in the sense of having a more inclusive, more democratic, more just school that has the means to serve the country and serve the people of this country. Obviously, when more than 100 new rooms were opened, extending pre-school education and moving decisively towards universalization, when more than 800 schools presented concrete programs to promote school success, when there was already a reduction in the number of students per class, when they advanced with basic education tutoring, because we cannot leave any student behind and we cannot accept that repetitions are natural because they are not, when we start a year with a new model of full-function external evaluation, and other things have already been mentioned here, and when we made a positive turn in the hiring of teachers, we know that we just started doing what is necessary. I would like to ask you a very concrete and purely political question, Mrs. There is a problem when we think about this in the long term, which is that in order to ensure continuity, in order to ensure stability in schools, we have to find a way to bring the parties right to convergence. We need to find a way to end the radicalism of the parties on the right in this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u247	Mr. Deputies, please finish. It's been a long time since.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u248	So we have a challenge: how can we bring the parties that follow the model of Nuno Crato, who said he wanted to implode the Ministry of Education, to this work of convergence to do the work of the future? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u249	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u250	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I congratulate her on the intervention she has brought to this plenary. In fact, I have just mentioned, but now I do it in a more developed way, one of the aspects that marks, in a distinctive way, the start of this school year, which is undoubtedly the freeness of school textbooks. School textbooks continue to be a fundamental instrument in the teaching/learning process, a measure that is not only inserted into what is the constitutional principle of the right to education, the freeness of education, education, how it contributes to equal access and success in school and to combating failure and dropout. We know the dramas of thousands and thousands of families in our country, which, at every beginning of the school year, are debated at very high costs both in the acquisition of school textbooks and in the acquisition of school materials, and the obstacle for many of these families is the same costs. Portugal is undoubtedly one of the countries where education expenditure has a greater weight on the incomes of families themselves. For this reason, we have long defended this measure of the freeness of school textbooks, proposed by the PCP, and we have argued that it is extended to all compulsory schooling. We defend the final surrender of school textbooks, which students can write there, draw, that students can have a relationship with their own book, with their own manual, which will undoubtedly also be an element that will help to combat failure and drop out of school. It is a measure that, in 2016, remained for 1. the year of 1. the cycle, but we consider that it is possible to go further, which must go further. We believe that this progressive gratuity should go up to compulsory education and that by 2017 it can already be extended to all 1 students. the cycle. We also recognize that there is a set of aspects in public school that require intervention, which is indeed quite necessary, such as the need to reduce the number of students per class, to hire the assistants, the operational assistants who are missing, to put an end to precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u251	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u252	I will finish, Mr. President. There is a need to hire psychologists and technicians who are needed, to give greater support to special education, to have investment in the school park, to link teachers... There is, in fact, still here a set of measures that are deeply necessary to improve and value public school, so that it can give the answer that children and young people need in our country and to effectively ensure a high quality teaching/learning process. It is in this sense that I put this question to Mrs Joana Mortágua: what do you understand about these aspects to which it is still necessary to answer? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u253	To make the last request for clarification, Mr Duarte Marques, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u254	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mrs Joana Mortágua for her speech, but the first message I have is for the Socialist Party and for the rest of the coalition: you are organized!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u255	You wake up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u256	It is because we have heard Prof. Quintanilla, President of the Education Committee, asking for consensus, asking for us to move forward, and then the board colleagues, starting with Mr. Porfirio Silva, have done exactly the opposite, following what Mrs. Joana Mortagua did. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u257	The first thing is: organize and understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u258	And you wake up!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u259	I would like to greet Mr Porfirio Silva for going to a social-democrat council, São João da Madeira, see, as he has proved, a good example of school management,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u260	...including a good link with the authorities, a good example that Mr and his government should follow. It is interesting to be here today to talk about education when the most important annual OECD report on education was presented today, which says precisely the opposite of what you said in the last four years: spending on education increased from 2008 to 2014. And that's an important fact. That is, the State invested more in education, increased the level of schooling, lowered the dropout rate and there were better results in education in Portugal. This is a sign that has refuted all your propaganda for the last four years. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Mrs De Bloque de Left : what do we have different in this academic year from the previous year? There's one thing that's true: this school year, apparently, and well, it's taken normal. And what is normal at the start of a school year? That's what happened last year. We must recognize that two years ago it did not go so well, but in the past school year and in other previous years it happened in a normal way. And what is normal, unfortunately, in Portugal? That's what happens this year. In the past, the Left Block said: "The government has left at the door 25,000 teachers, who have not been able to enter the contests! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This year is 28 000, but no one shouts, there is no hysteria, there is nothing! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u261	Unfortunately, this is normal! This year it happened again that teachers with detachment, for medical reasons, had to change three times of school in two weeks. Is there any hysteria? There isn't! The position of the opposition is much more responsible than that of those who are now in the government had in the past. I mean, what's changed? Nothing's changed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u262	She changed, because she was always a bandhandler!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u263	What has actually changed is that we have fewer assistants in schools. What has changed is that the government announces tutorials and does not implement them. It's another bluff from this government. What has really changed? Look, what really changed was the requirement in public school. What has really changed? The retention rates in public school have changed, the successes of students in public school have also improved. I would like to know what the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP think of the Prime Minister's statements on success in access to higher education. That evil Nuno Crato, that gentleman on the right...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u264	Sir, you have to finish. It's been a long time since.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u265	I will now finish, Mr President. It was precisely those right-wing policies that killed the public school, that evil right-wing one, that in three years there were more students coming into higher education! Just look at the rules and realize why there were more students entering higher education: there was less retention, there were more students finishing 12. the year improved this rate because compulsory school was implemented up to 12. year. I shall finish, Mr President, by asking the Member of the Left Block to reply clearly to a very simple question. The honourable Member said that this year all the teachers were placed. Can you assure me that all the teachers are placed today? That there are no missing teachers in any school? That there's no teacher to put on? That there's no class without a teacher?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u266	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u267	Or will you answer me that some fail but that this is normal? Yeah, it's normal, just like it happened last year. I finished, sincerely wishing, a school year with quietness and good results for students and teachers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u268	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u269	Mr President, I shall briefly try to answer the questions that have been put to me. I begin precisely by replying to Mr Duarte Marques. The honourable Member asked what it is to start a school year normally. I say: I don't have 3000 teachers to put. You want to know whether there is a failure of one or two teachers on medical grounds or for some reason in some school, when the evidence against your government exceeds the 3000 teachers who were not placed at the beginning of the year. But it's not normal either, I think, to start the year with cutting ads in artistic education — it was how your government started last year — unless the PSD government has already normalized the idea that every year there are cuts in artistic education...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u270	You cut 10 percent in schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u271	... and that the protest of artistic schools is a normal thing every year. It is normal to normalize protests when every year is cut and every year newspaper headlines have anything bad to announce at the beginning of the year. This is normal for PSD, but it's not what the Left Block views as normal. You also want to know if we are able to organize ourselves, but that can only be a rhetorical question, because we started by organizing ourselves to prevent PSD and CDS being government, and it worked out very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u272	I thought it was to save the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u273	We then organized ourselves to end the ECB (the school contract); we organized ourselves to end the examinations; we organized ourselves to end the CAPC (the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills); we organized ourselves to end the requalification of teachers; we organized ourselves to streamline association contracts. Therefore, do not worry about our organizational capacity, because it has made significant improvements in public schools in this country. In fact, she has done much more for this country's public school than the PSD and CDS have done over time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u274	But the honourable Member has also referred to OECD data on how investment in schools has grown. I will ignore that it is empirically impossible for anyone to believe that there has been an increase in investment in public school in recent years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u275	That's what OECD says!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u276	... but the Court of Auditors says that the State's annual expenditure on preschool, basic and secondary education fell 17 % between 2010 and 2014. If you want to send a letter to the Court of Auditors asking why your numbers do not strike with those of the OECD, you will have the freedom to confirm. There have been 1300 million cuts made in public school in recent years, as is indeed known in terms of the precariousness and conditions of our schools. Mr Porfirio Silva asked two questions, one in order to know how we were able to bring the PSD to some convergence. I think we have to wait until Nuno Crato's grief is over, and then maybe we can think again about the future. The second question is to know how we can extend these consensus and these convergences. The truth is, I think there are many convergences made, at least between us. For example, there is a convergence on the need to combat precariousness. There is a convergence on the need to provide resource schools for students with special educational needs. What there is is no resources. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u277	And what we need is money for these convergences. What we need... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] I'm making some news, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u278	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to create conditions so that you can continue to use the floor. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u279	Mrs. Members, what we need is to turn these convergences into budgetary priorities, because, on the right hand, education has never been a budgetary priority, but anyone who wants to invest in public school must have as priority investment in public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]] That's what's missing to fulfill all our convergences. There is no need to bind teachers; there is no need to bind school employees; there is a lack of resources for schools; there is no need to finish the works that the PSD and CDS have frozen; there is no need to remove from schools the asbestos that the PSD and CDS have refused to take. All this is missing and all this needs funding, which is urgent, for public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u280	Mrs. Members, having completed the political statements, we are now considering petition No 539 / XII ( 4. a ) — Submitted by Patrícia Pereira Pinto and others, protesting against the law that limits the number of animals per apartment, in general, with Bill No. 296 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In order to ensure equal access to the lease by those with pet animals ( NAPs ). For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u281	I begin by greeting Mr President and the ladies and gentlemen. Members for the beginning of parliamentary work and the petitioners for this initiative for a reaction to the draft animal code that the Ministry of Agriculture of the former Government was preparing to approve, but which, in good time, retreated, and aimed at limiting the number of pets in apartments. The draft law that the NAP brings to the debate also addresses a limitation and focuses on a simple principle: equality. Citizens with pets should not be discriminated against in access to rent, which often occurs. There are cases in which these families cannot find a landlord who accepts them, leaving them to hand over the animal to an official gathering centre or feel forced to abandon it, committing a crime. This project aims not only to ensure the constitutional rights of tenants but also to encourage a strengthening of the social and civil contract between those involved in the proceedings. The landlords have their rights perfectly enshrined in the Civil Code, relating to leases in the event of damage or destruction of property and is the basis for the contract's resolution of breach of rules of hygiene, quietness, good neighbourhood or of rules contained in the condominium regulation. In addition, it is possible for you to require the payment of a security, which is usually already the case. So, and in our perspective, there is no legal or ethical basis for this situation to be allowed. What we propose is to promote a healthy balance between the needs of tenants who care for pets and the rights of landlords. Given that all citizens constitutionally have the same social dignity and are equal before the law, it is our duty to ensure that the principle of equality is met and this dignity in access to housing is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u282	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank you for the demanding and dedicated exercise of the petitioners, which is an important power of initiative, and we can see that in recent years this House has approved a set of very significant laws which have represented invaluable progress in advancing the legal framework for the protection and protection of pets. In this regard, first of all, the law on the criminalization of the abandonment of pet animals adopted in 2014, the rules on slaughter and sterilization, which will have a period of entry into force of two years, as well as the amendment of the legal status of animals, which is currently being worked in the field of speciality under the Civil Code. In other words, it can be clearly assumed that there has been considerable progress and that remarkable progress must, from the outset, be the association movements, non-governmental organizations which have embraced this cause and have had the opportunity to submit to the Assembly of the Republic a set of initiatives, which have also been embraced by this Assembly of the Republic and to translate, by legislation, this effort and the consensus which has been generated in this regard in Portuguese society. I would therefore say that it is good for us to be holding this debate today, because other debates, perhaps more important and significant, debates that were accompanied by all, have already been stopped and have had a happy conclusion. In this regard, I would like to make two or three summary comments. Firstly, it makes sense to reflect on the proposals presented here, but this reflection cannot fail to reflect on the conditions for the exercise of the lease, in particular the sphere of private autonomy and the freedom of the parties. Secondly, perhaps more important than the proposal they submit to this House is that, during the duration of the lease contracts, there may be significant changes which result in layoff actions, which may call into question, on the one hand, the rights of tenants and, on the other, to collide those rights with obligations not to abandon pet animals. I would say, at the bottom, in very brief, that we are in favour of safeguarding the private autonomy and freedom of the parties and, therefore, understanding that the legal regime in force can be improved, we have grave doubts that this deepening may violate those principles which are absolutely fundamental in the conclusion of contracts. I would also like to tell Mr André Silva that he is not here, contrary to what the NAP claims, a question of violation of the principle of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u284	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u285	The principle of equality, of course, is limited to human beings and, therefore, at the legal level, there is no obvious application beyond what the NAP wants to translate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u286	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes the petitioners, whom we acknowledge the merit of once again bringing to debate the problem of animal welfare and the conditions to be guaranteed by those who welcome them at home. This petition was born in response to an announced and failed—and although it failed — the initiative of the previous Ministry of Agriculture or, better, the Ministry of Agriculture of the former majority, which, something unfavourably, aimed at imposing limits on the reception of domestic animals. Obviously, the host of animals must ensure adequate health conditions and must comply with the laws that enable their guardians to live in society. For example — and among many others — you have to comply with the Law of Noise. in these circumstances, a single noisy dog can already be too much, while, elsewhere, five animals may not disturb anyone. thus the inadequacy of some ideas advanced by the Ministry of Agriculture of the former majority. The subject must be properly dealt with and therefore we renew our appreciation for the initiative of the petitioners and the theme they brought us here. As for the draft law of the NAP, we generally refer in their recitals to ensure equal access to the lease by those with pets. More specifically, we agree that no one can be discriminated against — and 'no one' are precisely the people who are animal guardians, i.e. no animal guardians — because they have pets, as regards the conclusion of lease contracts, provided that the detention of them fulfils all the legal requirements. So we follow this draft law of the NAP. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u288	You have the floor now, too, for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to welcome the petitioners here and say that the CDS recognises and values the fundamental role of pet animals for the general population and for some groups of citizens in particular. As mentioned above, this petition arises following a widely publicized announcement in 2013, a technical proposal from the Ministry's services, which did not, at all, have political validation. And therefore, in our view, this is a matter which has now lost some relevance, because it has not been implemented, and therefore no proposal to amend the legislation which is in force is under discussion, and which is 2003. In any case, the petition has some incongruities in our perspective, because if on the one hand it defends an unlimited number of animals per household and there is a lack of records of such animals, on the other, it intends to create an annual quota for the creation of animals, which, our understanding, is an incentive for tax evasion, because it would lead to any breeders not to declare the animals for that purpose and to say that they were mere pets. Therefore, registration at the parish board is essential either for the proper enforcement of the law, or even for a public health issue. As far as the project presented by the NAP is concerned, we are not surprised, given the kind of matters that the NAP has already used us to, but we cannot actually follow it, because if on the one hand, it is true that we must defend the equality of citizens — and, in this case, what the NAP defends is the equality of citizens with pets, referring to this as a fundamental right of the Constitution, and its social dignity — on the other hand, this project of the NAP forgets another fundamental right which our Constitution provides and which is expressed in Article 62. the, which is the right of private property. The freedom and rights of each citizen end when the rights and freedoms of others begin, which means that the current law, which already provides for a limit on the number of animals per apartment, also provides for exceptions, in cases where, by authorization of the municipal veterinarian and the health delegate, there are conditions to exceed the basic number of animals provided for by the law. And we cannot, in our understanding, force a landlord, a owner of a property to rent a house to any tenant, whether he has animals or not. In our view, this is not a clause that could be entered into a lease. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u290	You now have the floor, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I began by greeting the petitioners. In fact, this initiative may have eventually lost the temporal relevance it had at the time when it was provoked by the debate that apparently led to a possible initiative for this purpose, and it is certain that, of course, above all, it seems to us that absolutely radical solutions, in its choice, are always bad advisers. That is to say, we all recognise that, in fact, even for the safety of people, for the safety and well-being of animals, for the safety of neighbors, there are, of course, almost limits to the number of animals that can be housed in a given area, in particular in an apartment. It is obvious that in certain situations we already have legislation that duly cautions this reality, either for reasons of quietness of the neighborhood, or for reasons of public health, and there is indeed no need to intervene in the legislative plane, so at this point, in some way, the main objective of the petitioners is guarded by the combination of common sense, of the law in force and of the possible improved application needs that can be introduced. As for the draft law that the NAP actually presents, it poses a problem and I think that, no matter what we may discuss the goodness or quality of the solution, one thing is certain: I cannot follow the interventions that have taken place, noting that the question of equality is not so obvious in this case, that is, indeed, there is the right of ownership of those who place a property for rent, but we all recognize that there are limits to the type of discrimination that the owner can operate, when he chooses to place the property on lease. Therefore, what needs to be determined is whether or not there is arbitraryness in the way someone who owns a property intends to prevent someone from being their tenant. And this is the demonstration that must indeed be done, within the framework of legislation that is appropriate and which, in a balanced way, holds the various interests in the presence. We're talking about a small pet whose potential to cause damage to the property is practically nonexistent. If there is a guarantee that, on the part of the tenant, at the time of termination of the lease contract, the property will be restored in the exact conditions under which it has received it and if, where possible, the possibility of creating a security is introduced, for example, we have sufficient mechanisms that will lead us to be able to maintain that, eventually, a discriminatory mechanism without a basis is not appropriate. Having said this, we do not follow the solution presented by the NAP either. We are sensitive to the problem, but it does not seem to us that this is, at least for now, the most appropriate solution, in terms of legislating, because it is systematically something that should be well connected with urban lease and we even have doubts that a generous and appropriate interpretation, according to the Constitution, of the legislation on lease does not even reach this conclusion. Therefore, we are not in a position to follow this solution with this text at the moment. But obviously there is work that can be done and, therefore, if there is availability on the part of the proposers, I think that all together we can reflect and come up with a solution that, eventually, hides the various positions on the table, because legal imagination is something that is often not lacking in this House for other purposes and such a simple matter can be solved with two or three dabs from the legislator, surely saving the position of the owner and of whom, legitimately, chose to have a pet and therefore does not have to be placed in a situation of not achieving, in a sustainable and reasonable way, and without any arbitrary approach, access to renting a housing. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u292	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP begins by welcoming the subscribers of the petition which we are discussing today and which propose to the Assembly of the Republic, among other matters, that it legislates so that there is no limit of pets per housing. We accompany the growing concern of the generality of the population around the welfare of animals and how they are treated and we welcome the civic and democratic participation it generates, which has also contributed to the deepening of the legislation on these matters. In fact, a pet should not be considered a luxury under any circumstances, especially in a country which is debated with difficult situations of isolation, loneliness, in which, for some people, a pet is sometimes the only joy of its days. In order for everyone to have the option of taking care of pets, it is important to safeguard, in addition to this possibility on the part of people, public health, hygiene and animal welfare. This issue is particularly relevant when the animals are under the State, in the official collection centres, at a particular time when we are all responsible for the way in which they are treated. One of the subjects addressed in the petition relates precisely to the end of the slaughter of animals in cans and municipal cats. This issue has already experienced important advances in this legislature, in particular through the PCP bill proposing the prohibition of slaughter of animals where there are grounds strictly related to animal welfare or public health, safety and hygiene. The concern shown by the petitioners regarding the absence of a consistent sterilization policy, resulting in the increase in animal populations, was also the target of the CFP's intervention and finds a response in Act No. 27 / 2016 of 23 August 2016, which provides for the sterilization of animals, including errant animals, and the implementation of catch, sterilization and return programmes for cats. As to the non-discrimination by the possession or possession of pets in the dwelling, achieving objectives that may be considered worthy, namely the fight against abandonment, it is also necessary to assess whether, in the proposed terms, the measure will not be ineffective in the face of practices and even some of the existing lease mechanisms, which can enable the outline of this issue. The CFP will continue to contribute positively in these matters and that is our commitment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u294	The last intervention on this point is by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I would like to greet the petitioners of this request which arrives at the Assembly of the Republic to ensure that no legislation limits the possession of the number of animals is permitted. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to mention, because I think it is right to do so - which, unlike other matters, in terms of animal welfare legislation, and in particular the care of domestic animals, this Parliament, already in some legislatures, has promoted work at the legislative level, with the participation of civil society, which I think is right to note, in particular with regard to the ill-treatment of animals and also the need to change the paradigm of slaughter for sterilization, with a view to controlling the animal population. I refer to this among other examples that could be given here. With regard to this concrete petition that is being discussed, I would also expressly say that, fortunately, the object of the petition no longer exists. In any case, I think it is very important to discuss it because, as it is usually said, "Don't go the Devil weave them" and someone remembers to resume some closed project in the drawer, and so it is always recorded here the position of each parliamentary group on the subject that petitioners brought to the Assembly of the Republic. in this sense The Greens liked to say that they do not even consider it rational to put the question of the number of pets that a certain family may have in its place as a central issue for the debate on animal welfare, that is, we do not think that rationally this can even be put as a matter. in this sense and as already mentioned by other Members. Members, in fact, what matters is to ensure conditions of hygiene, health, environmental and social health and for the welfare of animals. In fact, what is asked is the responsibility of people who make the choice to have and take care of domestic animals. Thus, we are in full agreement with the text of this petition and I would like to leave this recorded here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u296	With this intervention we end the second item on the agenda. We move on to the third and final item on the agenda, which deals with the joint assessment of petition No 51 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by the Portuguese Cancer League, requesting the Assembly of the Republic legislation on equity in access to screening, diagnosis and treatment of women with breast cancer, and draft resolutions 462 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the dissemination of a report on the implementation of basic population screenings of breast cancer, cervical cancer, diabetic retinopathy and colon and rectum cancer (BE) and 463 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthening measures to prevent, diagnose, treat and support breast cancer patients ( PCPs ). To begin the debate, I give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira of BE for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet more than 27 500 petitioners and petitioners who, with this initiative, claim greater and better access to cancer screening, greater and better access to treatments, including a reflection group on cancer issues. The Left Block also welcomes this initiative because it presents proposals that are fair and of the greatest importance. Better traceability, better access to screenings enables early identification of the disease, allows for timely action, improves the possibility of healing and certainly increases the quality of life of the cancer patient and, therefore, we associate and greet this initiative. But we still greet her because this petition has already produced fruit and we are sure that it will continue to give. For example, the working group for the discussion of cancer issues has already been set up and we are sure that many proposals will be discussed there to advance not only on the issues of screening but also on the issues of treatment. That is the commitment of the Left Block and we will be committed to the discussion and adoption of these new proposals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members are certainly aware of the project of the Left Block, approved unanimously already this year, which aims to extend the territorial coverage of population-based oncological screenings, including breast cancer screenings, the cervix and spine and rectum, and certainly also have knowledge of the dispatch published in April that determines the total regional coverage of cancer screenings by the end of 2017. We believe that these are good steps, particularly this office, but that it is necessary to ensure that these intentions are realized. They are good intentions, good legislation, but it must be translated into reality. We really want these measures to take place. The Left Block is very committed and that is why it presents a new project, after the one that has already been approved, also from the authorship of the Left Block, so that the Assembly of the Republic monitors the evolution of the execution of this order, so that by the end of 2016, beginning of 2017, in the first half, reports are delivered in the Assembly of the Republic where account is taken of the measures already taken by each ARS, the percentage of population covered by the screenings and the additional measures to be implemented, all with the aim of achieving this total territorial coverage of the population base screenings at the end of 2017. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u298	Mrs Carla Cruz from the PCP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group begins by welcoming the petitioners, particularly the Portuguese Cancer League, who has stimulated this petition. I would like to say that, in fact, the question of cancer and, in particular, breast cancer is a problem with which the country faces. We know that early detection and diagnosis and access to appropriate treatments are fundamental, but not only to treatments, because, in fact, multidisciplinary teams need to be monitored, since this problem reaches several dimensions and is not only the physical condition but also the psychological and emotional condition of all the patients involved, particularly of women who suffer from breast cancer. In Portugal one third of the cancers diagnosed in women are breast cancers, i.e. 30% of the cancers diagnosed in women are breast cancers. We also know that, by means of the political option of successive governments, these issues, both early detection and access to treatments and follow-up, have in fact been blocked, have gone very slowly, taking into account the real needs. However, the problems with cancer patients, particularly women with breast cancer, are not related to the problem of detection, diagnosis and treatment, in addition, especially with regard to access to technical aids that allow them to reduce the difficulties with which access to capillary prostheses, breast prostheses, sheets and dietary supplements can begin. It is in this sense that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party presents its legislative initiative, which does not concern these issues that have been addressed in the petition and goes further, requiring the Government, the Socialist Party, to make the necessary investments at the level of equipment to enable all hospitals in the National Health Service to be equipped with the necessary materials and equipment to ensure that all cancer patients have equal access to the best treatments. We know that oncology equipment is obsolete and is in a low number, so this investment is necessary, as is also necessary, and it has already been mentioned, that professionals are hired, and many professionals are required, from nurses, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, psychologists and social workers, to allow the appropriate treatment and follow-up of these patients. That is our proposal. That is our commitment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u300	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Greens Parliamentary Group, to greet the thousands and thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition, a greeting which I would like to extend to the Portuguese League against Cancer for the work it has been developing and also for promoting this petition. This petition requires equity in access to screening, diagnosis and treatment of women with breast cancer and the first note that The Greens want to leave is that they fully monitor the concerns and objectives of the petitioners. Indeed, as is well mentioned in the petition text, cancer is the second cause of death in Portugal and has an impact on the life of almost all Portuguese families. According to World Health Organization forecasts, oncological diseases will have an increased incidence that may affect one in every four Europeans during their lifetime. Moreover, the petitioners' claims are essentially strictly linked to the resolution which the Greens have scheduled for discussion and which was approved by this House in April this year. I am referring to the strategic plan for the implementation of organized and population-based screening in cancer areas, including breast cancer. in this initiative, The Greens propose that the Government safeguard, in the context of the population-based surveys provided for in the Order No 4771 -A / 2016 of 7 April, the framework of the recommendations and considerations of international scientific entities in this area, in particular as regards the percentage of the population that should be considered in the organized and population-based screening in the areas of breast cancer, the means existing in the National Health Service to respond to the screening and the existing means to train more professionals and thus extend the response of the National Health Service. We also propose that measures in this area be implemented by regional health administrations to consider a strategic plan to ensure compliance with these goals and the strengthening of the articulation between health centres and digestive endoscopy units, with a view to health education, improving the rate of adherence to screening and, consequently, the detection of diseases in good time. In a way, the objectives of this petition are, essentially, also laid down in the resolution presented by the Greens and which was adopted by this House of the Republic and therefore this petition also has the merit of strengthening the opportunity for the legislative initiative which the Greens have submitted, because the claims and objectives of the petitioners are fair. It remains to be said that the Greens Ecological Party fully supports the claims and concerns of the petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u302	We moved on to the intervention of the Socialist Party. Mr. Domingos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today it is commemorated or 37. the anniversary of the implementation of the National Health Service and, in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party is associated with this ephemeri with the discussion of the petition about the problem of breast cancer. I therefore welcome the petitioners of this initiative, whose theme concerns all Portuguese. According to statistics, breast cancer in Portugal reaches 6000 new cases per year and 1500 women die every year because of this disease. According to the prognosis released, one in eleven women in Portugal will have breast cancer throughout life. This breast cancer disease represents the second cause of death in women. As has been disclosed, prevention is the best intervention. Therefore, it is necessary to look more closely at the data from the screening of this pathology. of the known data there is a regional asymmetry with different results. The Centre, Alentejo and Algarve have a coverage of 5 % ; the North, 83 % and Lisboa and Tejo Valley, less than 27 %. Still, this screening is comprehensive and compromises about 3⁄4 of women. Despite the technical availability of diagnostic means, possibly with the onset of the recently observed crisis, and despite the increase in coverage, women's adherence to screening has returned in recent years. Consequently, it is imperative to invest in more flexible outreach and information programmes, which eventually extend screening periods in post-work hours. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, investment in population-based screenings is an ethical imperative and requires the profitability of technical and human resources in geographical areas that allow for the uniformization of regional oncological records. In addition to the therapies available in all its dimensions, it is necessary to interpret causes, signal early and intervene in good time, in order to improve this trend. The Ministry of Health of the XXI Constitutional Government establishes as a priority the strengthening of epidemiological surveillance, as well as the primary and secondary prevention of oncological breast disease. Dispatch No. 4771 -A / 2016 of 7 April holds regional health administrations responsible for the implementation of population-based screenings in different geographical areas and in different pathologies, such as breast cancer, as well as for initiatives to improve prevention, literacy and monitoring of results obtained. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the health of Portuguese is a good; regional equity is an obligation for those who govern and laws. Prevention, adherence and treatment are everyone's responsibility. Let each of us know how to take over yours. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u304	For an intervention, on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing issues relevant to everyone today, the issues surrounding the lives of people with cancer in our country, issues that have long merited the attention of the CDS. Obviously it is essential to greet the petitioners and also the Portuguese League Against Cancer, whose work of irreplaceable value is essential here to recognize. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We also welcome all professionals and volunteers who devote themselves, inside and outside the National Health Service, to supporting these patients. Knowing, as has already been said, that one in three Portuguese will have cancer; that the reality of cancer affects all Portuguese families; that breast cancer and colo-retal cancer are of the most frequent but also those that are able to be avoided through well-implemented screenings; and yet knowing of the regional asymmetries that exist, both in screenings and in access to treatments, we have in fact every reason to give political priority to these matters. I would like to remind you, and it has already been mentioned here today, that this is evidence of the fact that in 2009 we have put forward concrete proposals in this area, that these issues have already been discussed in previous legislative sessions and that, within the framework of the Health Committee, the Working Group on the Monitoring of Oncological Diseases has already been set up, made up of Members of all the banks, who are pleased and privileged to coordinate. For the CDS, in terms of support for people with cancer, it is essential to address equal access to care for patients who are cared for and for patients who are not treated; access to innovation is essential, based on clear and transparent information and that does not generate expectations based on patients; access to prevention and screening means and support for caregivers. It is not for us to question the goodness and justice of all the proposals already discussed here and those presented here today. What is at stake, in order not to disappoint legitimate expectations of those who have chosen us and of people with cancer, and not to make vain promises, is precisely to ensure the means both in human resources and in equipment for these promises to be fulfilled effectively. This is what we want to stress, at a time when we are talking about increasing waiting lists for surgery, which are known to be delays in payments in health, that we are talking about budgeting and captivating, in which there are problems with the payment of extraordinary hours to doctors and that there are all reasons to be concerned about the realization of good promises in Portuguese health. In the CDS we reiterate our commitment to people with cancer, to Portuguese families. I hope that the government and the banks that support it will be able to join this commitment in a trans-party objective that must cover the entire Portuguese society. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u306	The last intervention is the PSD. In order to speak, I give the floor to Mr Luís Vales.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the day that 37 years of the establishment of the National Health Service, we discussed this petition, through which more than 27 000 citizens want greater equity in access to screening, diagnosis and treatment of women with breast cancer. This petition was prompted by the Portuguese League Against Cancer, an entity that has carried out a remarkable work in the fight against cancer over many decades. I would therefore like to begin by warmly greeting not only the 27 000 citizens who subscribe to the petition, such as the Portuguese League Against Cancer and, in particular, its President, Dr. Vítor Veloso, for his invaluable contribution to the interests and rights of cancer patients. [[PSD applause.]] That said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, cancer data are too well known. Just remember that in Portugal cancer is the second cause of death and has a profound impact on the lives of numerous families. Each year about 6000 new cases of breast cancer arise and 1500 women also die every year in our country because of this disease. in this context, it is appropriate to claim petitioners to extend more and more the detection of breast cancer and to ensure equitable access to the population-based screening program of breast cancer throughout the country. These are essential conditions to ensure that cancer is treated more effectively and with better results. The petitioners also proposed that in the Assembly of the Republic a reflection group should be set up to discuss the topic of cancer which has already been proposed by the PSD Parliamentary Group, and the Working Group on the Monitoring of Oncological Diseases has already been set up. A final issue, raised by petitioners and of the greatest importance, is that of access to innovative treatments. The Portuguese League Against Cancer called attention to some problems resulting from the delay of INFARMED in approving innovative medicines in hospital treatment. This is a serious and unacceptable situation that the government must now turn back quickly. In fact, the former government, despite the financial difficulties that the country was experiencing, strongly placed on access to therapeutic innovation. In recent years dozens of active substances have been approved for use in hospitals or in the area of participation and the financing of patients' access to innovative medicines has also increased substantially. It is therefore incomprehensible that the current government is making it difficult for patients to access these medicines, even though the complicity of the extreme-left parties supporting them is scandalous.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u309	The PSD therefore requires that we return to at least 2015 levels in the approval of therapeutic innovation and I remember, in this regard, the true revolution that has been made since that year in our country in the cure of hepatitis C, once again agitating processes and strengthening the means, because we all know that many of these drugs are increasingly fundamental to the healing of people who suffer from cancer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-15.u310	It was the last intervention on the last item on our agenda. I'm going through with the ladies now. Members of the agenda for tomorrow. Our work will start-CL at 10 hours, as is customary, with the general appreciation of the proposals of lein. 15 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment is made to the Criminal Code and transposes Directive 2014 / 62 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the criminal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000 / 383 / JHA and 27 / XIII ( 1 ). (a ) — establishes the legal regime for the conduct of tests, medical examinations and other appropriate means for the workers of the Prison Guard Corps with a view to detecting excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages, drug use and psychotropic substances and similar products. The joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 168 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Review of Law No 28 / 98 of 26 June approving the Legal Scheme for the Labour Contract of the Sport Practitioner and the Sport Training Contract ( PSD ) and 297 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the General Law on Sports Work and Sport Training ( PS ). Law No. 253 / XIII ( 1 ) will then be generally appreciated. ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the donation of mobile goods to museums of the Portuguese Network of Museums ( PS ). Then, together, in general, the projects of lein.o 162 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — The third amendment is made to the Baldios Act, approved by Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, ensuring its use to local communities that historically and according to the customs and customs to it are entitled ( BE ), 282 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the bases for the organisation, management and operation of baldiums ( PS ), 276 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revok Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, returning the buckets to the peoples ( PCP ) and 295 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revocation of the Baldies Act, Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September ( The Greens ). Resolution No 10 / XIII ( 1 ) will also be considered. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain on Defence Cooperation signed in Baiona on 22 June 2015. At 12 noon we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish you a rest of the afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 32 minutes.]]
