ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Our agenda today has three points. We shall immediately enter the first point with the urgent debate required by the Government on cohesion and social equality. To open the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Reform Programme ( PNR ) is a document of great importance for Portugal, presenting the strategy for economic and social development for the country in the coming years. It is clear today that the context of economic and financial adjustment in recent years in Portugal has had a very negative impact on the lives of Portuguese people. It is also recognized universally that this impact was particularly significant in the social determinants of population health. in this context, the areas of social inclusion, employment and health require particular attention due to the vulnerabilities that were accumulated throughout this period. We should therefore point out that in the State budget for 2016, these were the priorities for strengthening funding per area of governance. The country, as it is known, is faced with serious demographic and epidemiological changes that make it essential to modernize the National Health Service, in order to ensure its improvement in the quality of care provided, through the promotion of efficiency, equity and improved access. in this context, the government assumes as fundamental the relaunching of the reform of primary health care and hospitals, as well as the reform of continuous care integrated with elderly and dependent citizens, while defining as essential the realization of a broad programme to strengthen public health intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These were the guidelines for preparing this document, with regard to health policy, focusing on the values of access, efficiency and quality. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, in the reform of primary health care, in progress, will be promoted the hiring of retired doctors, the agileization of the placement of new doctors specialists, the development of the role of the family nurse, the creation of new USF(family health units) and the simplification of reference circuits. It is also intended to strengthen coverage in the areas of oral and visual health and additional support in the areas of psychology, nutrition and physical medicine and rehabilitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the context of the reform of hospital health care, the government has as short-term objective to reform the model of management and hospital organization for what will create integrated responsibility centres (CRI), involving funding to results and promoting efficiency, progressively introducing, from the beginning of May, the free access and circulation within the units that integrate the National Health Service and implementing the reference centers, recognized as the highest exponent of the concentration of competences in the provision of health care. Academic and clinical centers were also created, thus promoting the integration between science, teaching and existential activity, revising the mechanisms of contractualization and promoting the independent external evaluation of the hospital experiences existing under public-private partnership regime (PPP). in the area of integrated continuous care, we will continue with the strengthening of care provided at home, in outpatient clinic and recognize and support informal caregivers. The modernisation of the State, as a design of the national reform plan, is also supported by Portugal 2020, mainly with the resumption of the Simplex programme, which aims to make the state more efficient at central, regional and local levels. We will proceed to the administrative modernization of the National Health Service, through misburocratization and transparency, placing strongly on the simplification of processes of which are the creation of the SNS contact center, the electronic health register or the complete dematerialization of prescriptions and exams. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the last five months, the Government has already taken sufficient elucidative measures from its vision to promote better and more universal access to health care, generally reducing moderate rates and restoring the right to transport of non-emergency patients, in accordance with clinical and economic conditions. in the framework of the national reform plan, we will continue the path of improving efficiency and quality, developing and expanding health care networks, especially in valences that respond to the main challenges placed in our country. The aim of the Government is to ensure the sustainability of the SNS and promote its reform and transformation. Access of all citizens to first-needed public services with quality is a priority, as well as the replacement of balance in the sharing of funding between families and the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the first round of requests for clarification. Mr. Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u4	Mr President, Minister of Health, the issues I have to ask are particularly for you, Minister. We all realize — at least in this bench we realize — that Mr Minister perfectly dominates the lexicon, codex, language, general theory and the health sector. It would also be bad if this were not the case, since the Minister attended all the lectures and conferences for years and years; that is, the course of the lectures and conferences, the Minister was indeed an assiduous associate. The point is that now Mr Minister is not in the role of the speaker or the speaker, Mr Minister is in the role of the decision-maker and, more than the decision-maker, the executive. In other words, in addition to making decisions, you have to have the ability to execute them. Therefore, the rules of the game and the evaluation that they make are completely different, Minister. in this sense, Mr Minister should have some certainty and greater care in language. Even now, in the intervention he has done, he has just said that the last few years have had a very negative impact. Mr Minister, you may say so, as you did, but the official documents signed by you say exactly the opposite. In all the reports already submitted by you, by your Government, the data that are projected show a reality exactly contrary to what Mr. Minister mentioned here. And even more so, in the PowerPoint presented on the National Reform Programme, the main objective which is set by you, Minister, in the face of disqualification, budgeting, dismantling and the negative impact that you have just mentioned, for your four years of mandate is to meet the challenge of maintaining the level of access to health care. It is because the Minister is neither ambitious nor ambitious, from the point of departure which he has, no more, just wants to keep what has already been achieved, and what has been achieved has not been at his own expense, as it is evident, because you have just arrived, it has been at the expense of the previous government. And therefore none of this is right with the language that Mr Minister fears to continue. Mr. Minister, with regard to the National Reform Programme, in the words of Prof. António Barreto, President of the Manuel dos Santos Foundation, is a program that enshrines emptiness and I understand why it classifies the National Reform Programme as a program that enshrines voidness, because that is what this is about. There are a set of objectives, good intentions, we agree, Minister. We agree perfectly! But any teenager was able to write that, it takes a little more. Then, some measures are quantified, and even today, with the more sophisticated National Reform Programme and the National Reform Programme, the Minister points out, here, two concrete measures, and it is for them that I have questions to ask you from now on, being one of them the exemption of moderate rates for users exempt from the reference of the physician in primary health care. Is the Minister referring to the fact that he has been in force for more than three years and that he has proposed 8, 5 million exemptions? Is that it? Mr Minister, then, is it to abolish the moderate rates according to the extreme left always advocated, because, with 8 to 5 million exemptions, who is left to pay the moderate rate? So it was good to see what Mr. Minister meant by this, there it was, it was a little bit more precise. The second measure mentioned here is the investment in the national network of continuing care that Mr. Minister himself has already acknowledged the excellent work that was done by the previous Government and he cannot deny it because he has done so publicly in the Health Committee. Now, Mr Minister, in these four years, recommends creating 4800 places for continuing care at home and in the outpatient clinic, plus 8058 beds in the national integrated care network and has a budget forecast of 70 million euros, without any Community participation, as is obvious. Mr Minister, if you can't do the math, do what you're doing now, which is talking to your Secretary of State, because I already realized that Mr. Secretary of State can do the math, so you're already talking to him. Therefore, do the accounts there, Minister, because the 70 million euros that are planned do not give, the accounts are misdirected. Mr Minister, at current prices, only for the number of beds, it is 170 million, it is a small difference of 100 million, and then for nurses, which are necessary for the beds at home, it is more than 20 million. Mr Minister, the accounts are all wrong, 120 million is missing right now, and it is no wonder that in January and February alone, in these two months of your consulate in the Ministry, the Minister already has a deficit of 20 million. This is suspicious, because, as you imagine, your socialist predecessors have left results of very bad memory. in this sense, it has now been announced EUR 1300 million for debt payment. Mr Minister, we had 3500 million, it was the last socialist heritage, which remained in 2000 million. Now, Minister, where do these 1300 million come from? I hope it's not to spend extraordinarily. So fix there what's the debt target.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u5	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u6	I'm done now, Mr. President. Finally, to conclude, we have the question of 35 hours a week. When will the reduction of 40 hours to 35 hours a week happen after all? How are you gonna get that? If it's extra work, it'll load on the teams that already exist, it's not enough...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u7	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, if it is the hiring of nurses, what did you say the last time you came to the Commission, when will you launch the competitions and when will you allow for admission? This is because Mr. Prime Minister says that the reduction for 35 hours a week will be for June or July, until June or July will not be able to hire nurses, of course. Go fuck yourself, Minister! This is gonna suck, and you're gonna get stuck in that shit. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u9	Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who start by mentioning, on behalf of the Socialist Party, that we have great honour to have as Minister a person who, according to the PSD, is recognized, is a specialist who has talked a lot about medicine and is undisputed in the scientific and medical communities. We prefer you to a former tax director-general who had previously been responsible for the folder and who, in the interest of numbers, forgot about the people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, today the Government has called us to an urgent debate to deal with the pillar of strengthening and cohesion of social equality within the framework of the National Reform Programme. With this programme, the Government is putting forward a real strategy with a longer-term horizon and not just an immediate vision, which is, from the outset, a strategic, political, economic and social investment in the face of the present past. This reform plan, which many began to devalue, because it did not have concrete measures, will surprise many of you and Mrs. Members, because you have not only measures such as a timetable of execution, quantification of costs, goals and deadlines to execute them, quite different, remember, a script for the reform of the State presented a few years ago by Dr. Paulo Portas, with few pages, but with a very large letter, having been considered by a current nonsense commentator. This is a real reform plan that is not confused with the previous one. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we move on to the programme that we are considering today and where one of the main commitments of the Socialist Party was to guarantee better conditions of access by all citizens to the SNS. That is why this government began, of course, by restoring balance in the sharing of funding between families and the State. And why is that? Because in 2015 the satellite account data from the National Institute of Statistics revealed that on average 27, 7% of current expenditure was already borne by families. from then on, the Government must, of course, in the first months of government, change one of the areas and one of its main commitments, which had to do with the moderate rates. Moderate rates have already reduced this year 24 % as a result of the published portal. Blood donors and donors of tissues and organs were exempted, and there is a big difference, which the PSD Member has tried to raise: our exemptions are addressed to those who are chosen by primary health care. We value the citizens who go first to their family doctor, INEM or the Health 24 line, now the SNS contact center. What the previous government did was exempt people who were in absolute poverty and who were no longer able to access the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u11	It's good to remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u12	It is good to see the difference that is underlying here regarding changes in rates and exemptions, as well as additional means of diagnosis and therapy that will be exempt from day-to-day hospital episodes. The same is said about the transport of non-emergency patients, so often debated in this House, and that, at the end of just over three months, the Government has allowed for the removal of transport payouts in the provision of extended care, including, in particular, cancer patients and those who make hemodialysis, and nothing is lost in repeating this. But, Mr Minister, looking at the plan, regardless of the many measures that have already taken, such as the creation of the SNS Portal, the strengthening of primary health care, with responses in oral and visual health, and the possibility of the return of retired doctors, we need to think about the reforms that are necessary for the future, and we just need to resume the reforms previously promoted by the Socialist Party, whether in primary health care, whether in the national network of integrated continuous care, with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Minister Vieira da Silva as a whole. The paradigm that is proposed in this national plan is different. We want not only to increase the number of beds for medium- and short-term convalescence, but above all, community support teams, home support services and the figure of the informal caregiver, who has already been targeted at a right-wing initiative. We naturally want to strengthen the priority in mental health, which was an area totally disregarded by the previous government. And we are very pleased to see that for the first time in Portugal there will be a response for pediatric palliative care. This is undoubtedly a mark of this government, because the PS, Minister, well knows what strategy it stands for in the area of health, and it is urgent to repair the damage caused by the previous government and restore confidence to Portuguese. Mr Minister, what we want to ask is whether the impact of these measures which are planned in the reform plan meets the need for the Portuguese people to feel, that the Socialist Party's bench, that we all feel, to return to the confidence that the Portuguese have lost in recent years in our National Health Service, a heritage that we cannot alienate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u13	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the right, in particular the PSD, in the various debates on the National Reform Programme we have had in this Parliament, has been used to a line of argument which, in summary, is the following: look at what I say, but do not look at what I have done, for what I have done in the last four years in the government, and Mr Miguel Santos' intervention is an example of this. Concern with accounts, coming from a government that has failed all the forecasts and accounts, from a government that has always failed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u15	I don't know where.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u16	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u17	...in what I was talking about! What even bothers the PSD and CDS is that, this time, there are accounts for investment, to give people more health, to invest in the National Health Service. [[PSD protests.]] That's annoying! That's because when they failed the accounts, but the accounts were cut, for them, it was always okay. Now that there's an investment, there's a concern. It is therefore also that for so long they prayed, each night put a veil to the « Holy European Commission » to force it to apply what they called « plan b ». Why? Because plan b is that it actually met the PSD and CDS plan. Plan b was the PSD and CDS plan for four years. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u18	And we know very well what that plan was for the PSD government / CDS, that... [[PSD protests.]] ... contrary to what Mr. Miguel Santos said, health deteriorated in Portugal, yes. You are an informed Member and will certainly know the study, the summary of which has even been published in the Medical Journal, which says that in the last year, in 2015, there were more than 5 million scheduled consultations to be held. Why? Because people were missing, they were missing because they had no economic resources to pay the moderate rates of these consultations. Of course, you know this study too, Mr. But perhaps in a language that is even closer to the PSD, the European Commission itself says that in Portugal it is paying more and more directly from the Portuguese pocket to have access to health. Health is more expensive for Portuguese and, at the same time, in recent years, complaints have increased in relation to the care that is too expensive, the fact that they have to travel long distances and waiting lists, which have become longer and longer. You certainly know these studies, Mr President, that they completely deny what you have said about the kindness of the PSD/CDS government over the past four years. Therefore, Mr Minister, between pleasing the austerity of the PSD and the CDS, which is the austerity of Brussels and Strasbourg, and effectively working for the population, we opt for the second. Therefore, we say that if the government, for this and for the next few years too, is available to continue to improve access to populations, further reducing moderate rates, for example, and increasing the decentralization of primary health care...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u19	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u20	I will finish quickly, Mr. President. As I said, if the Government is available to continue to improve the access of populations, further reducing the moderate rates, for example, increasing the decentralization of primary health care and providing them with more valuances, taking advantage of the installed capacity that exists today in the units, particularly in hospitals, the Left Block will follow this path, because that, yes, is the way that the users respect and gives more health to the Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u22	Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, I begin by complimenting you here. I begin by reinforcing something that we have already won in this Parliament and which, for the CDS-PP, is never too much to value: the unequivocal value of the SNS as a pillar of social cohesion and whose sustainability is essential to preserve, because without the sustainability of the SNS, we will hardly guarantee social cohesion. in this line, we reaffirm the contribution of other partners in the social sector and the private sector, as added value for the proper functioning of the national health system, for which we are not motivated by any ideological prejudice. In this first part, we also wanted to strengthen the value of the contribution of human resources to the proper functioning of the National Health Service and pay tribute to its role as a guarantor of social cohesion. Having said this, and strengthening this role of the SNS in the health system, we would like to ask some questions with the perplexities that have already been mentioned today. With credible predictions that are more pessimistic, with the promise and the need to drop the deficit and the possible implication in freezing the expenditure of the Public Administration, with a scenario that is not, surely, and that Mr Minister will recognise, facilitate and facilitate the Minister has announced broad lines—and in fact we do not know more than broad lines—and, of course, it would be demagogic to say otherwise, there are broad lines in which we can identify ourselves. Now, what is clear is that we need concreteizations and in this scenario of difficulty more demands concreteizations and less abstraction and good intentions. The recent increase in the accumulated debt of hospitals has also been mentioned here, which unfortunately amounts to more than EUR 2000 million, which is of great concern to us. Indeed, Mr Minister, and referring to the subject of this debate, a failed State is certainly not a guaranteed social state. And we therefore have huge concerns about this debt increase. in this difficult context, in which an important part of the financing, contrary to what has been said here by Mr. Bloco de Left, is to regulate debts, there is little to finance. In fact, strict accounts need to be made. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u24	So we ask: how and when will the application of 35 hours a week be implemented? Will she be at the expense of increasing overtime? Will you be able to secure the resources for nurses? What will happen to nurses who have an individual employment contract and are not 35 hours away?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u25	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. How will you guarantee investments for the replacement of obsolete material? These are questions for which we are waiting for answers. The Minister intends to make a difference, I hope the price will not be an invoice, of bad memory, which, unfortunately, we have already had to resort to and which led us to the financial rescue. in this situation, surely, Minister, the social state was indeed threatened and it was the previous government that removed it from this situation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u27	Mrs. Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, could not begin this intervention without referring to what PSD and CDS-PP did, which was to whiten their policies for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u30	They're forgetting that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u31	What PSD and CDS would like us to be discussing today was the policy of the courts, the policy of attacking users' rights, the policy of attacks on workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u33	And that's what bothers PSD and CDS-PP, is to have turned the page into this cut-off policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u35	But, Minister, what PSD and CDS also wanted to do was whitewash the four-year policy that prevented many users from having access to consultations and treatments. How many times have we not heard here doctors and other health professionals report that they had users who asked them not to sign consultations regularly, because they did not have the ability to pay them, or because they did not have the ability to pay for the non-urgent transportation of patients, or because those who went to the pharmacy said, "I can't start my entire recipe, choose there those who are essential to my life! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u37	That is what we have heard in this House for four years and this is what we hear every day on the streets, in contact with the populations. But, Minister, for a long time we have known the relationship between economic and social conditions and access to health services, health and disease. That is why, Minister, it is important that poverty be combated, that social exclusion be combated. And the data released by the Directorate-General of Health in 2015 clearly show: the poorest feel much worse and evaluate their health in a more negative way than the richest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u38	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u39	Mr Minister, with the contribution and commitment of the CFP, positive steps have already been taken to reduce the difficulties of accessibility to health care...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u40	Mrs. Member, I apologize for interrupting, but because there's a lot of noise in the room, I want to ask the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are talking and, above all, those who are back to the Bureau, please sit down or leave the Chamber so that conditions can be created so that we can all hear the speaker. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. I said that with the contribution and commitment of the CFP, significant steps have been taken either through changes to moderate rates or in the non-emergency of patients. But we need to go further, Minister, in these areas. In the area of primary health care, Mr Minister, there must be a network that bets in the vicinity and that a family doctor is in fact assigned to all citizens. And as far as hospitals are concerned, it is essential that they allow full coverage of the national territory. It is necessary, Mr Minister, for the SNS to be in all areas equipped and equipped with motivated and valued professionals. Mr Minister, in this sense with the approved State budget, what steps will be taken in 2016 to achieve these objectives? What are you already planning? How will it be realized? What's already in progress? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u42	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u43	Mr President, Minister of Health, in fact, when we talk about strengthening social cohesion, we will have to talk about a serious problem, perhaps one of the biggest problems that has affected Portuguese in recent years, namely access to health care and the difficulties created by the PSD and CDS. This is because, in fact, if we were here to synthesize the health policy of the previous government, there would be no great effort to conclude that the PSD/CDS government has set its health policy on four central axes: first, blind cuts in an area as sensitive as that of health; second, closure of services throughout the country; third, a deliberate attempt to attribute health costs to users; and finally a clear effort to favour private economic groups with health interests. It is these policies that are important to invest in health, these policies that have to be abandoned if we want to actually promote health and if we want to prevent Portuguese from continuing to have access to health care for economic reasons. from our perspective, Minister, the PNR contains a set of health measures which, in fact, indicate the intention to reverse these policies. We refer, for example, to the overall reduction in the value of moderate rates in values greater than 20 % by 2016, but also to the elimination of moderate rates in access to emergency service whenever the user is referred to, either by his family doctor or by INEM or by the Health Line 24. We are talking about a measure that covers a considerable universe of people, but we could also refer to the replacement of the right to non-emergency transport of patients, according to clinical and economic conditions, or to the expansion and improvement of the capacity of the primary health care network. In other words, in this National Reform Programme there is an irreversible purpose to reverse health policies in relation to the policies of the PSD/CDS government, which is visible not only with regard to the need to halt the weakening of the National Health Service but also at the level of the replacement of justice regarding the costs borne by the user in relation to health. More is needed, it is true, but significant steps have already been taken. There is, however, an important issue on which the Minister has not spoken and which, in our view, is very relevant. It has a lot of relevance not only because it has financial implications, where, in fact, the State could save a lot of money, but also because it would represent an important contribution in combating job insecurity. I am referring to the use and abuse of the use of temporary workers in the field of health, an area where the previous government has invested much in the use of temporary workers. And in this sense, Minister, it would be important if you told us whether it is the intention of the Government to take steps to end this real scandal, this shame of resorting to temporary work enterprises to meet permanent health needs. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u44	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Governors, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, for the Government, the promotion of equality and social inclusion are through the progressive increase in income values in part of Portuguese and the restoration of social minimums. however, while high levels of unemployment and precariousness are maintained in Portugal, we do not see in the PNR the strategy in which these trends are reversed. Inclusion and social cohesion are the promotion of policies that advocate employment and combat precariousness and not only through regulation and supervision. Let us therefore ask the Minister: when does the process of replacing green receipts in the Public Administration with term contracts begin, thus giving a clear example to society of the will to end the precariousness?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u46	In reply, Mr Adalberto Campos Fernandes has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Miguel Santos, it is always with great pleasure that, when I come here, I see the concern that you have to appreciate my professional activity and curriculum and - in fact, I am grateful to you, because this, coming from you, is an act of great indulgence. [[Protests from PSD MP Miguel Santos.]] But as has been said here, it seems that the honourable Member has not been here for the past four years. [[Protests from PSD MP Miguel Santos.]] It was not here because it means to tell us that health is exhausted in the care services and wants to ignore, for example, that social determinants do not count on health. For example, he did not talk about studies that point to a greater increase in private spending in Portugal and a greater effort by families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputy didn't talk about a million Portuguese people without a family doctor. The honourable Member did not mention the worsening of the waiting lists in consultation and surgery, particularly in oncology surgery. He did not talk about the de-investment to which public hospitals have been voted and with which this government is currently facing, with very difficult financing needs to supply, that was the stop which has been carried out on investment in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Miguel Santos.]] But the honourable Member also has a kind of technique for discrediting himself, saying, "He is not well prepared! Don't count, you don't know! You do some conferences, but you don't know how to do it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u48	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u49	Mr President, it should be noted that in terms of moderate rates, the reference for exemption from fees in your Government did not include additional means of diagnosis and therapy in hospitals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is also noted, Mr President, that despite my repeated efforts here in Parliament to resolve the debt accumulated, at the end of last year that debt was again in EUR 2000 million. Mr. Member, listen to the independent entities, listen to those who observe the budgetary implementation and appreciate what was the behaviour and budgetary implementation of their Government in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, on the issue of voidness, I do not want to make any sort of comparison with previous documents and I would recommend only that today, when you have the opportunity, you read the National Reform Programme in detail and you will see that it is all less vague. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall finish by answering two more questions which you have raised. Still about what is the splendor of the exercise of the previous government in health matters, passing on to such sensitive aspects as the worsening of poverty, social conditions and the inability of the poorest to use quality health care,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...I must say that, playing, indeed, very skillfully in what you are experts in, which are the media, in Portugal, if there is a group of Portuguese with more care, as are added to those who have less care, there is a de facto extraordinary average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr President, I would also like to say that in the matter of continuing care and bedtime, the accounts are well done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u50	Are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u51	We will have the opportunity to provide you with detailed information on the accounts made, but I would tell you that, with regard to nurses and 35 hours of work per week, we are prepared to, when the needs of the institutions come to check, recruit and actually hire nurses. Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro, in relation to the National Reform Programme, the most important thing we have to do in the health sector is to think the country differently, not to think the country in a box and not to think that health is isolated, in a protected technical environment, outside what is the living condition of people, outside what was poverty and the removal from employment, work and access to health care. Of course, our Programme aims, above all, to direct initiatives to those who need the elderly and children most, and to this extent, as you will see in the National Reform Programme, we hope that the impact, at the end of the four years, will be of social justice and not only of budgetary beautification. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Moisés Ferreira referred to the importance of access capacity and above all to installed capacity. I announced, last time I was in the Parliamentary Health Commission, that we were going to merge the SIGIC, the so-called "system of registered surgery", with the Time and Time Consultation ( CHT ). Our goal is that, from May onwards, public hospitals share with each other the installed capacity and that, before patients are sent out of the public system, there is always a position and offer of care within the public system, and this will be done from the beginning of May. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, very concerned about her concern about the sustainability of the accounts. She is well aware that we are not insensitive to the political responsibility to maintain good accounts and to safeguard the country's interests in economic and financial terms, and therefore she can always count on us in what I have mentioned, which is: in health, she makes the reconciliation between rigor and social justice. And, Mrs Deputy, wait for the budget implementation, wait for the year 2016, without great fear and great anxiety, because what seems to be the only concern to attack the health policy in Portugal of the current government is the disaster or the budgetary threat, but which probably will not happen, as has happened with other catastrophes that you have announced since this government took possession. [[Congrats from some of the PS Members.]] The honourable Member says repeatedly that we have come here with intentions, with good ideas... Mr Member, in these five months, we have already realized dozens of things, we have already done dozens of very concrete actions that say a lot to people's lives. And I am not talking only about moderate rates or the transportation of patients, I am talking about what was the "fire" in the country in some hospitals and in some regions of the country, which alone means doing well for the health of people, such as normalizing the activity of hospitals, normalizing the quality of management and ending up with broken situations, from the Algarve to other parts of the country, as you know. Finally, Mrs Deputy, secure appropriations, investments and bad memory. The bad memory we all have a lot and a lot of things, unfortunately, but, Mrs. Member, the bad memory that served badly the people, who excluded them and left them out of the health system, we do not want to have. We want to do so with a sense of responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, Mrs Deputies, ask us now to invest and recover in a year what was the four-year de-investment is not rigorous, Mrs Deputies. It is not rigorous and I ask you to be careful that you cannot do what you have done in a year that has ceased to do in four years. Mrs Carla Cruz, on poverty, social exclusion, the poor and the rich, I think we understand. In fact, a part of the House well understands this type of reading, which is the reading that exists of this indissociable marriage between poverty and disease. You will therefore count on us, Mrs Deputies, to, with the limited resources we have and the difficulties that the country knows, we will continue to make closer, care that takes into account the humanization and the interest of people. And, as you know, we have already given very concrete signs in this regard and, of course, that is what we will do in the budgetary framework ahead with all our enthusiasm and determination. Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens, I am replying in particular to the question he raises about companies. We do not, as you know, live in a state of law and in a market economy, legal or institutional conditions to prevent the market from being organized. One guarantee: direct instructions have been given, the government has thus determined to hospitals to, whenever necessary, recruit professionals in temporary terms, particularly for peaks of work, whether they are doctors or nurses, sign employment contracts directly with themselves, removing from this circuit the companies that have effectively represented a very serious problem in the quality and integration of teams. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u52	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go into the round of additional clarification requests. So you have the floor to Mrs Mercès Borges from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this debate now in view of the document that has already been approved and that we have not heard anything new from the Minister, it may have made no sense. But given the relevance of the matter, there is always something to be said, and the PSD has made this contribution: it has delivered a draft resolution with objective and concrete proposals, because we do not have bad memory, we have memory, and the Portuguese also have it, of the bankruptcy that you have left us. [[Protests from some PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u54	Mrs. Deputy, do it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u55	We remember when the gentlemen. Members reminded us at all times that much more ransoms were needed. We remember that now you can all be together to spend money, because you no longer have the troika here and we honor our commitments. And we weren't alone, we went with the Portuguese, because they recognized that. That was our memory. The PSD considers that, in order to ensure the highest social and generational cohesion, it is necessary to achieve three main objectives: the balance of public finances, economic growth and the creation of sustainable employment. These objectives that we consider to be primal in order to help break the cycle of poverty and social exclusion. We all saw that this was the way in which it was going, the path of balanced public finances, the balance of economic growth and job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u56	Mrs. Deputy, do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u57	I don't have, no, sir! But we do, because now you see the unemployment rate rising and nothing they say. For you, unemployment is now good, before it was bad! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] If there was an increase of one tenth, there was an urgent debate in this plenary; now, nothing, it is all good. Let's see! [[PS protests.]] Previously, if there was any oscillation in the growth rate forecasts, at a time when the forecasts were at 3, 3 % for 2017, you protested, but now, when you are at 1, 7 %, they say nothing. No growth, no employment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Without growth, there is no quality job and we have unemployed people, we have people to suffer. [[PS and PCP protests.]] And this scourge leads families with children to take serious risks of poverty. Always, we were always concerned about it, the PSD always cared about it. [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u58	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to make a little silence so that you can finish your speech. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u59	That is why the PSD, aware of this reality, presented a draft resolution, with clear and objective proposals, which recognises the importance of social economy entities and their support in the territory in terms of proximity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u60	Your time is up, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u61	I shall conclude, Mr President. I hope you untie the time I was interrupted. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] Proposals aimed at strengthening active employment measures, which support people, in order to enhance the exit of their poverty cycle, which help families to combat child poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u62	Well pray Friar Tomás! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u63	Proposals supporting the elderly, proposals supporting the integration of disabled citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u64	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President. The truth is that it is only possible to build a more prosperous, more cohesive and more socially just society with economic growth and job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u66	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u67	These were the values and objectives that we have defended and that have mobilized us in the past, and they are those that we will continue to defend and that will continue to mobilize us in the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u68	You have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Poverty and social exclusion are phenomena strongly marked by structural factors, which require government intervention in the medium and long term, with concrete measures and at various levels. This is what is presented to us with this National Reform Programme. This, yes, is the way forward. And I am very surprised that today the PSD bench brings here a number of solutions and even presents a draft resolution with concrete measures, when, in the last four years, it has been unable to promote employment...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u70	We've increased the job!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u71	...and to prevent poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u72	Well remembered! It's just to take a look!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u73	The 2016 report on Portugal has shown that poverty and social exclusion have worsened over recent years. Poverty, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be a collateral damage; it must always be fought. The social vulnerability of aggregates with children has been constant, with the rates of poverty to increase from year to year, having reached the highest values in 2014, which has gradually inhibited young couples, either having children or, above all, having the second or more children. Employment instability, uncertainty about the future, lack of social support and the increasingly scarce income available have been the main factors inhibiting birth numbers in Portugal. As in other European countries, Portugal has faced a huge demographic crisis, and demographic projections for the coming years are very worrying. Portugal will be, in a few years' time, the European country with fewer children, of the resident population, and in the future it will be the second country of the European Union with the highest rate of elderly population. If there is no reversal of austerity policies adopted over the past few years, which are essentially based on income cuts, restrictions on social support and labour policies that encourage and promote low wages and precarious work, Portugal is at risk of having a strong contraction of its active population. And this, yes, is the investment that has to be done. It is, therefore, with a feeling of great hope that we find that this government's choice has again been the strengthening of social cohesion. This Government has assumed, against all and against all and as a structural development option, the strengthening of family incomes as an essential instrument of economic growth. This government once again wagered at birth, recognizing that it has implications not only in terms of demographics but also, not of mere importance, in improving the medium-term sustainability of the pension system, or not the sustainability of social security, which has so much concerns the Portuguese. The economic adjustment policy in recent years has cost Portugal 20 000 children per year. And the promotion of birth will only be possible and effective if there is a clear bet on increasing the income available to families and promoting labour stability.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u74	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u75	I will now finish, Mr President. No one decides to have the second or more children because there's more time at home. Support for the family should be made throughout the lives of children and with concrete measures to support the family. And allow me, even to ease the sourness of this debate, to say that the PS bench already begins to set an example, moving from words to action: after Peter John, there comes John Afonso. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u76	Thank you very much and congratulations, Mrs. You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wanted us to start with what was done in a few months. The family allowance was updated and increased, benefiting more than 1 million children; the CSI increased €37 with the State budget which entered into force on 1 April of this month—in fact, on a proposal from the Left Block—and that is good; an extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed was created, negotiated with the Portuguese Communist Party, which, even if it does not arrive, is obviously a good measure; the RSI had more than 20 € increase in its reference value and the basic principle of automatic renewal for those who maintain the same conditions was resumed, and it is necessary that this enters into force as soon as possible, what will be good; automatic updating of pensions, values that are more than shy, but has met the agreement, and that is good; it has been enshrined in the State budget, independent life projects for people with disabilities, and that is good. However, I wanted to say that everything we have done so far—and we have done good things—is not enough. The pattern of inequalities continues to be unbearable; the rate of poverty is offensive; social suffering goes far beyond that which is tolerable; most unemployed continue to have no access to unemployment benefit; social income for inclusion persists authoritarian and unfair criteria, both in the calculation of benefits and in the relationship with people. That's why, sirs. Members of the government, we need to make a move. All cohesion measures in this plan are welcome. in the context of child poverty, we improve family allowance, but do not forget concrete things, such as breakfast in schools. in the pension scheme, it reinforces its automatic update, but we also find ways of repairing the injustice of those who started working at 12, 13, 15 years old and, after a life of 40 years of discounts, continue to have more than 35% penalties in their reform. in the RSI, we update its value with the update of the social support indexer, but we also end up with absurd rules such as that which makes a child's food pension used as an argument to cut the RSI to mother and other brothers—it makes no sense! Let's go, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also not forget that there is no social cohesion without job creation. Combating poverty is not just a question of social policies, it is a question of economic policy, of the primary distribution of income. There is no social cohesion without employment, without combating inequalities, precariousness, without changing the distribution of income and the relationship between labour and capital income. We know that for this we do not count on the right. The right supports the exclusion but accepts injustice. Right shows charity, but you think poverty is a destiny. [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] The right hand beats the family's chest, but he had a good time with the CSR's cut to 70,000 people, 40 000 of whom were children, Mrs. Deputy! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] With this, the right has lived well over the last few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u78	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u79	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. We also know that for this fight we do not count on the European Commission. It must be very silly to make statements as the European Commission has made about the national minimum wage. [[PSD protests.]] It must be very silly, but they did them! So, Minister, what I want to say to you is that, for this conversation and for this nonsense, the European Commission speaking alone. We have a country to defend. We haven't been made to crawl and this is the time for us to walk up and up and down. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u80	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate on social cohesion and equality is held within the framework of the National Reform Programme. And we know, through the Government's PowerPoint, that rather than a structured plan, we started by having a mere advertising pamphlet; instead of quantified proposals, we started by having no accounts advertising, no funding information and no impact on public accounts. Three slides on cohesion and social equality summarizing a diagnosis that omits bankruptcy, objectives that ignore the necessary social security reform and measures that are no more than mere abstract proclamations and without any commitment to realisation. We will see what comes here, but when we talk about social cohesion it is necessary to start by saying that there is no cohesion or equality when a country is led to pre-banking, when we make ourselves depend on our lives as a third party or when government policies call into question the credibility of Portugal. When it comes to cohesion and social equality, it is necessary to understand and question whether the model of the current government can improve cohesion or if instead it can aggravate that same cohesion. The situation is of great concern, Minister : it is the advice of the international institutions not to reverse reforms, it is the downward review of growth for 2016, or the European Commission's insistence on Portugal to pursue a path of rigor and prudence. It is not understood, Mr Minister, that when it comes to cohesion and social equality, when a reform plan is presented, there is no single word on reforming reforms: social security reform and sustainability. We have always said, and today we say again, that this would require and require broad social and political consensus. We have always demonstrated availability, and we are once again demonstrating, for a social security reform that gives peace to the current pensioners, does not ignore the expectations of the current workers and guarantees the right to a pension for the younger. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: We in the CDS are available for this debate. It remains to be known what the Socialist Party's availability is, what the Government's availability is, what the Minister's availability for this so important reform. It is not possible to debate social cohesion and social equality by ignoring reform of reforms: reform of social security. And now, Minister, to finish, because it is also a cohesion we are talking about, it was good to be able to say here what the measures of the Centeno programme in the area of social security are. I asked you in the Commission and today, Minister, I ask again: are you in a position to ensure that there will be no cuts in social benefits? Or, having, where is Mr. Minister going to cut? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u82	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We cannot begin intervention without reference, considering what has been said even by the PSD parliamentary bench, that workers and the Portuguese people also remember, because everyday life does not let them forget the impoverishment to which you have subjected them for four years, nor let them forget the sacrifices imposed on them during your government for four years. [[PCP, BE and PS deputy Carla Tavares applauded.]] The Portuguese people do not forget, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges. We cannot speak of cohesion or social equality without talking about a better distribution of wealth, a path to the recovery of wages, a real increase in pensions and reforms, a path that combats the structural causes of poverty while at the same time implementing measures that respond to urgent situations. Social cohesion and equality are inseparable from the realization of fundamental rights: the right to work and work with rights, the fight against precariousness, exploitation and low wages. It is important to value work, wages and national production. the right to social protection for children and young people, the elderly, pensioners, workers and the unemployed, investing a course of cuts in a set of social benefits that left those who needed protection and abandoned.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u85	the essential and necessary support for people with disabilities, ensuring access to work and social protection, health and education, among other fundamental rights, effectively eliminating the barriers that persist. the right to education and health, valuing the public school, the National Health Service and its professionals. the rights of men, women and young people in our country to be happy here and not to be pushed into forced emigration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u87	... taking with you the acquired knowledge and the possibility of contributing to the development of your country. Indeed, it is important to reverse the path of impoverishment, unemployment, precariousness, exploitation, inequality and social injustice that has worsened over the past few years but that has experienced unprecedented deepening during the four years of governance of the PSD and the CDS. Because it is not possible to discuss cohesion and social equality without talking about the essential need to restore income and labour and social rights, this State budget takes steps that are to signal in strengthening the family allowance, the RSI (social income of insertion), the solidarity supplement for the elderly or benefits for third-party assistance. On a proposal from the CFP, it was also possible to implement measures that contribute to solving specific problems in the lives of people, such as extraordinary support for long-term unemployed without social support or the review of the calculation of discounts for the social security of self-employed. But Mr Minister, there are also issues for which it is important to respond and present concrete measures and on which the CFP has been intervening. We are talking about collective bargaining and the importance of defending and respecting and preventing its expiry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u89	... because we believe that collective employment contracts are a fundamental part in the lives of workers and an indispensable instrument for a fair distribution of wealth. The actual increase in pensions is an objective necessity. The thawing that has been done must be accompanied by the real increase in its value as a way to combat poverty among the elderly. It is also important to value the long-term contribution careers, which the CFP has already put forward in this House of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u90	I ask you to conclude, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. It is also important to take the fight against precariousness as a priority, with measures aimed, in particular, at combating employment-inclusion contracts and temporary work, because work with rights is essential to ensure the dignity of each person's life. The fight against poverty and social exclusion cannot be based on palliatives or remedies, and must combat its structural causes, so as to move towards the development of the country, justice and social progress. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u92	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : To call for cohesion and social equality for the National Reform Programme means to include this important issue in all government priorities. This intention, however, shows, first and foremost, the Government's commitment to reply or to seek to restore some social justice which has been mainly degraded by the policies of the former PSD/CDS Government. I will not refer to the old, but I say that there is already time for systematic cuts in wages and reforms and there is time for constant deterioration in social support. The time has come to start returning to people what has been withdrawn from them in the last four years by the PSD and the CDS. in this context, it is important to highlight some of the measures that are envisaged in the National Reform Programme and which announce the turn that the Portuguese claimed in the last legislative elections. It is not enough, we know that there is still a lot to do, but still, we note the return of the automatic pension updating mechanism, the return of the update of family benefits, such as family allowance, single parenting and disability bonus, the implementation of the strategy to combat poverty of children and young people, the increase in social income of inclusion and solidarity supplement for the elderly and the update of the indexer of social support for 2017, which is, as we know, a reference value with impact on several social support. Therefore, in view of this National Reform Programme, Portuguese are now beginning to be sure that the policies of inevitability were, after all, reliable conversation. What the PSD and CDS said was inevitable was, after all, reliable conversation. Well they did the Portuguese who, on October 4, put the inevitability parties out of government responsibility, put the PSD and CDS in the right place, and now they're even worried about unemployment. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u94	Even in this second round, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, social security is a structural pillar of our society resulting from a social contract among all. It is a mechanism for the defense of the most vulnerable and a process by which the reduction of social inequalities is promoted. Social security is an irreplaceable mark of the civilizational progress of Portugal and there will be no cohesion and social equality without its existence. in this sense, it is important to promote policies that make an intransigent defence and protection of their values, so, Minister, we would like to know what guarantees Portuguese have that the expected saving of EUR 1000 million in social security, estimated for the four years of the legislature, will not affect their healthy balance and social responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u96	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that when we talk about cohesion, social balance and solidarity, it is good for us to remember and it is good for all to be able to know the ways we propose. As for memory, it is not possible to hide that in recent years in Portugal, all indicators of social inequality have worsened. All indicators of social inequality! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Although in an intervention in this House the then Prime Minister has been saying that this time it was not the poorest — the'mexilhão' in the expression of it — to bear the effects of the crisis, increased the rate of poverty, increased child poverty, increased all the indicators of inequality and brutally increased what is the clearest example of the weakness and failure of the policies of the previous Government: the 400 000 Portuguese who emigrated because they did not have the conditions to leave the poverty trap, get out of the trap of low wages or precariousness. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It's true that you need to have memory...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u98	Selective memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u99	...and that memory, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it cannot be forgotten, as it cannot be forgotten the alternative ways in Portuguese society that have been proposed for the evolution of our social indicators, for the social coverage of the needs of families, for the social security system. We all obviously have a great concern about the sustainability of social security, especially those who make proposals to defend this sustainability and achieve them for the benefit of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there are other proposals that are known and are quite different. They are indeed — and the Members. Members of the former majority do not like to hear about this — the proposals for the reduction of EUR 600 million in pensions! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u100	Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u101	I was already waiting — this is not the first time we've talked about this — that you and I have been talking about. Ladies and gentlemen said that's not true. But here I have an extract from the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019 where you can read, in a third point, the following: « Introduction of a measure for the sustainability of social security (about EUR 600 million) ». And then he says how : in reducing expenditure or raising taxes — such as the proposal that has been made and which has been dropped by the Constitutional Court. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I recall: there were 480 million cuts in paid pensions, plus the increase in the single social rate and the increase in VAT. That's what they proposed at that time! in the Stability Programme it is said: "Well, this measure has been plunged, let's think of it as a model or at least as an amount, because we no longer mean, as the elections are approaching". But we know more about social security reforms, and we also know about state reform documents in which the path outlined was individualization and capping, in order to partially privatize social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can discuss these social security reforms, we are always available to discuss them, but on this path we will not go, on this path they do not contain us and on that path they will not count on most Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true, as Mr Soeiro has said, that we have already achieved a part of what we have proposed to do: the replacement of the social minimums, systematically cut over the last few years; the complement of solidarity; family benefits; social income of inclusion; the addition of dependency in support benefits to people with disabilities. All of these benefits have seen their value increased and these increases are already in the families, they are already in the people, they are already in their beneficiaries, without that there has been no disruption in the public accounts. It is true that we have already achieved an increase in the minimum wage, with agreement in social consultation, without which the Portuguese economy has suffered any disruption. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But in this National Reform Programme, of course, we have a set of proposals for legislation for the coming years. I remember a few, in fact, already mentioned. I recall the thawing of the social support indexer, which is fundamental to the continued, though rigorous, progression of social support. I recall the commitment of creating a unique benefit for people with disabilities, which will close a serious gap of our social protection model. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I recall the commitment entered into in the National Programme for Investment Increase Reforms in Support of Poorer Children and Families. I recall the central commitment to cohesion and equality issues, the commitment to progressively build an employment and work policy, a social policy that effectively reduces segmentation in the labour market and reduces unacceptable levels of precariousness in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this National Reform Programme is not just a programme of intentions, it is a programme of quantified and oriented measures, as has been said here, and very well, by the PCP bench, for the defence of rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Social policy is essentially a policy of social rights and not of assistance. This will always be a complementary policy. The decisive barrier against exclusion and the lack of solidarity is consistent social rights policy. Mr André Silva of the NAP asked me how we will ensure the sustainability of social security. We will ensure sustainability in all its dimensions: in the financial dimension, ensuring the balance between resources and applications, ensuring that the effort that is required of companies and workers is not excessive, in response to the needs of the economy, but also ensuring social sustainability. The honourable Member said, and it is true, that we want a financial balance of the social security system. But the value of pensions will be, as you will see, what grows most throughout the government area in the coming years, because we continue to believe in the public pension system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This National Reform Programme is probably an uncomfortable surprise for some Members, since the process that was followed in its construction. The gentlemen. Members, who have spent a lot of these debates on slides and vague ideas, will already have, from today, when the final version of the National Reform Programme arrives here, which will change the needle and will be forced to discuss the concrete and quantified proposals, the more than 140 concrete and quantified proposals that are included in this Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is, in fact, a different method, because we have already had plans for reforms presented by the then right-wing majority and we well know the level of debate that has been associated with this plan—sometimes none! More quickly Brussels arrived than the discussion between the Portuguese and, in particular, in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is indeed a painful change for some but effective, because this Programme was born with guiding principles, with a set of basic priorities, with a set of fundamental axes and develops in a very significant set of quantified proposals. I have already mentioned some in the social and cohesion sphere and could refer to others, linked to child poverty, linked to all areas of social cohesion, as the Minister of Health has already done for the area of health. But this House will have the opportunity to benefit from the contribution of hundreds and hundreds of Portuguese and Portuguese who participated in the debates that took place throughout the country around the National Reform Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] E, ladies and gentlemen. Members will also have an additional surprise: this time, the National Reform Programme is that it will guide the Stability Programme which will be presented in this House of the Republic today. A Stability Programme which will also be geared towards growth, to reducing inequalities and to fulfilling all our commitments when we have taken possession of, national commitments and European commitments here, while not forgetting to beat ourselves by our ideas, by our priorities, by our path, which is increasingly a path understood and accompanied by a large majority of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what it's cost you, mainly! [[PSD protests.]] We looked at the list of proposals presented by the PSD at this point in the debate of the National Reform Programme, and even have good proposals. Interestingly, the best are the ones you have never applied, and some of them have even fought. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there are also bad proposals, curiously applied by you when you were in government. We do not fight inequality or cohesion deficits by stimulating precariousness, and precariousness is inextricably linked to the draft resolution which Mr. Ladies and gentlemen here presented themselves. To propose that part-time work should be stimulated in a country where those who resort to such work are because they cannot have a full-time job is not a measure socially appropriate to the times in which they occur. To propose that there is a way to update pensions only has one problem, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: it already exists and is in force. And that is why I said that the good proposals were those which you have either abandoned or never defended and many of the proposals that are here have done nothing to solve the problems of poverty, injustice and social inequality. We therefore have an ambitious programme, we have a programme with concrete, accounting proposals, a programme that will unite Portuguese and Portuguese in a difficult, demanding battle, but which is a battle of these generations: to reduce — in some cases, to reduce again — levels of poverty and social inequality. A society that abdicates to reduce levels of poverty is abdicating from its future and is not our way, that will not be our path, that is not the path of the National Reform Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u102	The Minister joined in his speech in his round and the statement he would make at the end of the debate, well because it did not make sense to interrupt and then give him the floor again. The debate is therefore closed. However, there is a request for an appeal from Mr Nuno Magalhães to the Bureau. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u103	Mr President, this question is about the conduct of the proceedings and to put two questions to the Bureau, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u104	Mr President, as long as the Bureau is able to respond. Questions can ask, answers I don't know if they will...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u105	Mr President, as for the first one I am sure you will be able to answer. Since the Minister has talked so much about the stability programme that comes here, possibly and allegedly approved today in the Council of Ministers but that no one knows in this House, I wonder if the same has already entered. The second question to the Bureau is not so much a question, it is one more question, and I also believe that it will certainly correspond to it in order to distribute the Stability Programme of the previous Government that spoke in fact about social security which requires a broad social and political consensus, and it is imperative that the solution be found as a result of an extended debate involving civil society and the parties in the area of governance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u106	at that time, it was the PS. Not now, but at the time it was the PS! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u107	...and not in such cuts of EUR 600 million as Mr Vieira da Silva mentioned. [[PS protests.]] It is not enough not to have selective memory, there must be no selective reading. For the sake of the conduct of the works,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u108	Thank you, sir. I'll try to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u109	...I will try to get Mr President to respond to the first part and I can now send out the Stability Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u110	The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs also requested the floor, in the use of the question form to the Bureau, on the conduct of the proceedings. Do your favor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u111	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau on the conduct of the work and to request that the second part, which has not been read out here, be distributed to the Stability Programme, which said: « thus, at the moment, the details of the measure to be applied are not presented, defining only an obligation of result, to have a positive impact on the pension system of EUR 600 million (...) [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u112	Thank you very much, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u113	(...) irrespective of the combination between the reduction measures and the increase in obligation vis-à-vis the amount’. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u114	Thank you very much, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u115	I repeat, « obligation on the amount », with reduced expenditure and increased revenue. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will then try to respond to these two difficult pleas. As regards the second part, it is clear that we will distribute the vineyard to all banks in the 2015 Stability Programme, that is both the part which Mr Nuno Magalhães has read and the part which has now been expressed by the Secretary of State. I think it will be for the tenth time, but it will always be useful for all of us to learn. As for the first question, as you know, I have been here since the beginning of the plenary session and I don't know if anything has come to my office. However, as the Minister said today and the day only ends at 24 hours, I hope something will come. We can now turn to the second item on our agenda, which consists of the debate of three draft resolutions. In the meantime, I ask Vice-President Teresa Caeiro to take over the presidency. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u117	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic said, we will continue with the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 194 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Aims at strengthening the means and powers of the Working Conditions Authority and ensuring the effectiveness of its intervention ( CFP ), 98 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the consecration of a new mission for the Working Conditions Authority ( Acts ), amending its scope of action, strengthening its powers and providing it with more means to combat precariousness ( BE ) and 258 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the Working Conditions Authority by meeting the ILO ( PS ) Conventions. To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the reality in the workplace clearly reflects the gap between law and life, between the legal consecration of rights and their realization, their fulfilment and their effective exercise. The disrespect and violation of rights in the workplace is inseparable from the worsening of working conditions, the generalization of precariousness, the deregulation of working hours. The former PSD/CDS Government sought, directly and indirectly, to paralyze the work of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) in a first phase, by withdrawing its competences, exempting the employer from the fulfilment of communication obligations to the ACT, such as working hours maps and the existence of work accident insurance and, in a second phase, by emptying its means, both human and technical, and financial. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There were 300 labour inspectors in 2015, when according to the ILO ratios there were 500 inspectors. The paralysis of the inspection and sanctioning activity was, and it is all the more useful to the patronate as they have sought, up to the limit and at all costs, to degrade working conditions and relationships. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Act, through its inspection and sanctioning activity, is a fundamental instrument for combating illegal practices and violating rights. The 2014 ACT Activity Report confirms that subsequent changes in labour law resulted in the degradation of job quality and intensification of exploitation: an increase in 200 % of hidden labour contracts, including false independent work, false stages and other hidden forms of work, undeclared work, which increased 34 % compared to 2013, and still the persistence of illegality in the conclusion of term contracts and in the use of temporary work. Therefore, strengthening the number of inspectors, senior technicians and the competences of the ACT is now a key condition for this inspection to fully perform its duties. That is why this proposal from the CFP aims to guarantee the measures necessary to fill vacancies in the ACT inspectors'framework ; the measures necessary to strengthen the ACT services, in particular by opening the invitation to tender for the hiring of superior technicians ; the systematic articulation of the sending of information by the Directorate-General for Finance to the ACT with regard to dependent and independent labour returns and also taking the necessary measures to ensure that the line of contact with the ACT is free of charge. on the part of the CFP, we are in the fight against the exploitation of rights and workers, which is a fight for which we will not cease to fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u119	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, the generalization of precariousness was done by two ways. One of the ways was that the legislative amendments aimed at simplifying — this is the wrong word that is used in the law on the right in relation to work — the labour laws. What does that mean? To protect workers, to make and facilitate dismissal rules, to deregulate, through the multiplication of exceptions, the use of long-term contracts, to multiply contractual statutes and precarious forms of relationship between employers and employers. I give as an example to the temporary workers who make the business of renting people their way of survival and who have already reached EUR 1 billion in turnover in Portugal last year. I give another example: outsourcing which has become, in most cases, a pure form of placement of workers without rights. The other way of generalization of precariousness was that of the violation of labour standards, it was the total banalization of illegal practices in Portugal. I refer to some examples of this banalization of illegality: the use of temporary work for permanent functions, so common in so many places, from call centers to hospitals; the use of false green receipts for permanent and subordinate jobs; the use, totally abusive, of internships, making trainees to run for permanent and necessary functions in businesses or services, not hiring anyone and benefiting from cheap labour and taxpayers' money to finance this precariousness. Another example: the scandal of employment-inclusion contracts that are a shame, where people earn a €80 scholarship to perform a function that is necessary in an institute, in an IPSS or in a public administration service. This work offshore in which Portugal has become, in which laws that exist are not met and in which employers' impunity is the rule has benefited, and much, from the weakening of the Working Conditions Authority, which is the authority to which it is responsible to monitor and ensure compliance with labour standards in our country. What happened to PSD and CDS? They increased the requests for intervention from the ACT, but decreased the capacity of the ACT to respond to these requests, minus 46 000 establishments visited in 2014 for example. So what the Left Block proposes today is to strengthen the inspection of work, because it seems to us that this is essential in the context of combating precariousness and the defence of labour democracy, labour law in Portugal, the concrete life of people living in their work. We propose five concrete aspects. First, the fight against precarious work must be explicitly included in the task of the ACT. Second, the ACT should extend its scope to the Public Administration. The State that has become the biggest employer of precariouss cannot continue to set the worst example, and the ACT must have the ability to verify precarious situations also in the Public Administration and the business sector of the State. Thirdly, the ACT should look at the situation of traineeships, employment-inclusion contracts, false volunteering, fake scholarships. Fourth: the number of inspectors to comply with the ILO ratio should be strengthened, i.e. 200 more inspectors. Fifth: trade unions and precarious organisations should be involved in this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). — To present the draft resolution of the authorship of the Socialist Party, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing the Working Conditions Authority and therefore the quality of those who have to guarantee working conditions in Portugal. What separates the savagery from decency in the world of work results from the existence, or not, of labour legislation that protects the weakest part of the relationship of work, the worker, but also from the ability that the State has to control and act against violations of work. Here as in other areas, as we know, a lot separates the left from the right and a lot separates us from the PSD and CDS action over the past few years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the right, it was not enough to deregulate, it was not enough to simplify, it was not enough to crush wages, it was not enough to turn the board of dignity and labor justice. By the force of the law against work, the weakness of the State to comply with respect for workers and by the law of work was joined. During right-wing governance, the Working Conditions Authority was deliberately weakened and this was only one of many ways of weakening decent and decent work in Portugal. The absence of organic law almost four years ago, deep budget cuts, reduction of effects by about 25%, during the governance of the PSD and the CDS, helped to transform Portugal into a free zone for precariousness and labour exploitation. These are the examples of real cases that are reported to us, which come to us every day, come to us on our own, come to us by committees of workers, come to us by the unions. It is the stories of those who feel that the State has left them at the mercy of an invisible hand that is too visible to capture their own rights, labour rules, wages. That was how the company sold trainees as if they were pens, so it was with the pregnant worker who was hired only after signing a dismissal letter that remained in the boss's drawer. So it was with the workers of a Vale do Ave factory who are forced to work on Saturday morning, no extra time, because dismissal is easy, there's a lot of people who want and the state keeps closing their eyes. This was the case with a worker who received false green receipts from a service company who fulfilled all duties and had no rights. This was the case with the workers of a logistics company in Maia, who are obliged to work at night, or in their own words are « laid down ». It was thus with the workers of a temporary working company who fired them and hired them for the same permanent function near the end of the maximum time scheduled for the sole purpose of fleeing the labour law. So it was with the workers of a port call center who have the seconds controlled to go to the bathroom and yet only after they have permission of the foreman is that they can move to the bathroom. This is not mistification, they are real cases that are written and come to us, they are real cases that portray the work scourge, the scourge that blooms because the right has given mote and the permissiveness, at this time, is confused with perverseness, as always happens when the State resigns itself to intervene on the market, regulating forces that are always contradictory and balancing the system necessarily in favor of the weakest side and that it cannot do it in any other way other than by law and by guaranteeing its application, which is the case of workers. That is the choice of the Socialist Party. in this sense, we welcome a commitment that has already been made by the current Government to launch an external competition for the hiring of 80 new labour inspectors and we advocate that the Government not only strengthens the body of inspectors, promoting the revision of the Organic Law of the Labour Conditions Authority, thereby safeguarding the strengthening of its competences in combating precarious work. The time has come for the generalization of abuses, because respect for the law cannot, in the understanding of the Socialist Party, be incompatible with the integrity of those who guarantee compliance with that law. We will work on this with a strengthened and revalued ACT. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. President. — For an intervention, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolutions submitted by the CFP, the Left Block and the Socialist Party, which we are debating today, recommend that the Government strengthen the means and powers of the Labour Authority in order to ensure compliance with the ILO Conventions as well as the effective fight against precarious work. This is not the first time in this House to discuss the important role that ACT and its inspectors have in monitoring compliance with labour standards. And this is not the first time we have stated the importance of your mission, because we understand that control and promotion of decent work is fundamental in our society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u123	We therefore agree that more means should be given to the ACT, that its inspection framework should be strengthened and that conditions should be created that will enable them to be more effective in the operation of these services. however, we cannot fail to point out that, in the explanatory statement of these draft resolutions, considerations are made in which the PSD Parliamentary Group does not revise itself. And from the outset we cannot accept the claims that the previous PSD/CDS Government sought to paralyze the activity of ACT, particularly with the 2012 work changes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of this House, in May 2015, was affirmed by my colleague Clara Marques Mendes, and I would like to reiterate that these legislative amendments were precisely in order to ensure that the Act fulfilled its supervisory role. I recall again that these changes were introduced in order to reduce bureaucratic procedures without any reflection on the work relationship, thus allowing the ACT to focus its activity on effective control of labour relations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u124	I would also like to reaffirm that these legislative amendments have always guided the protection of workers' rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the times were not easy and, despite the financial constraints we inherited from the Socialist Government, the PSD has always considered, as it continues to consider, relevant the effective functioning of this inspection body, which is the ACT. And, for us, PSD, it is also important to combat precariousness. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the increase by itself of the number of inspectors that will allow the creation of more employment, which will combat precariousness! The existence of good labour legislation is important, and the previous government has done this legislation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u125	It is important to create conditions for the Act to exercise its control and control power and we are available to support all the strategies for strengthening the Act that enable the fight against illegality and ensure the protection of decent and quality work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u126	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I will mention one earlier point: we have just discussed the National Reform Programme and the Socialist Party and the parties that support this government have cited a report from the European Commission. Well, it's too bad that you guys are. Members of this report only read the part you are interested in, because in this report of the European Commission it is said that the number of deficiencies has decreased thanks to the reforms made by the previous Government. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, reading only one part and not reading the other part is, as for us, a sign of your ambivalence with regard to these reports. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u128	Today we are debating three draft resolutions on the Labour Authority of the three parties supporting the Government : PS, PCP and the Left Block. The Working Conditions Authority is very important, not only for its pedagogical function, but also for the monitoring and rebalancing of labour legislation and that we all agree. With regard to diagnosis, what does the International Labour Organization recommend? One inspector for every 10,000 workers. Now, the world of private sector workers under the supervision of the Labour Conditions Authority is 3, 8 million workers. Thus, if the ACT, in 2015, had 330 inspectors and the former government started hiring 42 new inspectors, setting the table to 372 inspectors, this gives a ratio of 10 500 workers per inspector — it is to make the accounts. So it's a lot of noise for nothing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u129	On the other hand, the parties that support the Government can only understand the criticisms of the former Government. As far as solutions were concerned, he agreed to make it clear what they wanted. The one who creates jobs is companies, not governments. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u130	It is good that you tell what you're coming to, even because you have different recommendations. Do you agree that the Working Conditions Authority shall extend its powers to the Public Administration? Do you agree that the General Public Administration Inspectorate ( IGAP ) is being terminated, who has this function, or are they going to double the functions? It was good that we had an answer during this debate. More importantly: do you agree that the Block proposal should go forward, which should be used by the Working Conditions Authority to combat volunteering and IPSS? Do you know the difference between work and volunteering? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And this proposal is absolutely aberrant and results from an ideological prejudice on your part. Is the pursuit of solidarity institutions what they want? Do you want to instrumentalize ACT to impose on society your ideological agenda and the statization of society?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u132	Is the PS okay with this? We don't! And this is where we clearly differed from your proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u133	Mr Soeiro has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u134	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, it is not a great surprise that the CDS-PP is against strengthening the powers of the ACT and strengthening the fight against precariousness. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] The honourable Member is part of the only party in this House who voted against the projects to combat forced labour which also gave power to the Act, in the view of the honourable Member, that the fight against forced work created too much instability in the economy. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] Mr President, your speech does not surprise us. The fight against precariousness on the part of the CDS-PP, of course it would be a joke! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u135	For a second intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD says this is not the first time this matter has been discussed. Well, no, Mrs. Deputy. over the last four years, we have repeatedly reported that the serious lack of inspectors in the ACT was complicit in the violation of the law because it prevented the monitoring of the rights of workers. It's not the first time we've had a fight. over four years we proposed strengthening the number of inspectors and what we found on the side of the PSD and CDS-PP was zero! It was unavailability to treat these matters seriously. Therefore, Mrs Susana Lamas and Mr António Carlos Monteiro, I would like to tell you that it is obvious that strengthening the number of inspectors is not enough and here we will be, as we have been doing, to discuss the repeal of the most serious standards of the Labour Code, because these rules need to be amended and repealed. But ensuring an effective number of inspectors for the operation of the Act is, at least, to establish justice, because it ensures that the Authority which has supervisory competence, at least, does its work, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. And if the patronage is rested, then the Working Conditions Authority that works, but in time and time and ensure the effectiveness of its work. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that on the side of the CFP we will continue to defend the hiring of the necessary technicians, inspectors, lawyers and workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not register any more entries for speeches on this point of our agenda. Before we move on to the third and last item of today's agenda, I must announce that the Bureau has received a message from Mr Hélder Amaral, President of 6. the Commission, in order to inform that the replacement text and the indexary vote report shall be referred to the plenary vote, as well as the proposals for amendments consensualized at the Commission meeting held on 13 April on draft lein. 30 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Electronic Communications Act, setting limits on the payment of the users by the settlement of the contract in the loyalty period (12 ). the amendment to Law No 5 / 2004 of 10 February ( PCP ) and 32 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of electronic communications service clients in loyalty contracts ( BE ). I would add that the EB and CFP parliamentary groups declare withdrawing their initiatives to benefit from the replacement text. I think we are now in a position to proceed with the third item on the agenda, which consists of the joint debate of draft resolutions Nos 191 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strategic plan for the implementation of organized and population-based screening in the areas of colon and rectum cancer, cervical cancer, breast cancer and diabetic retinopathy (The Greens); 143 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of territorial coverage and equity in access to screenings of population-based oncological diseases ( BE) and 255 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement a screening plan for cervical and rectal cancer and that, as a preventive measure, it establish a plan to raise awareness of the population (NAP). To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is known to all Parliamentary Groups, the legislative initiative brought today by the Greens for discussion aimed at a strategic plan for the implementation of organized and population-based screening to colon cancer and rectum. It happens that after this initiative has entered and after it has been scheduled, the Government has published Dispatch No. 4771 -A / 2016 of 7 April, which provides for organized and population-based screening, not only for colon cancer and rectum, but also for breast cancer, the cervix of the uterus and diabetic retinopathy. Therefore, in view of the new legislative framework, it was important to extend the scope of this legislative initiative also to the areas referred to in this Office. That's what we did. With the support of the other banks, we have extended the scope of this legislative initiative. Therefore, and regardless of the sense of vote that each of the parliamentary groups will take on this Greens proposal, we welcome the availability of all banks to adapt the draft resolution to the new legislative framework. And if we initially wanted a strategic plan for the implementation of the organized and population-based screening of colon cancer and rectum, that was not by chance. As is public, this type of cancer is not only one of the most frequent cancers in Portugal in number of new cases per year, but also the cause of most deaths. in fact, he is responsible for the death of 4000 Portuguese per year, i.e. in Portugal, 11 people die per day due to rectal cancer. According to data from the Directorate-General of Health, between 2007 and 2011, we saw a significant increase in both the number of new cases and the number of deaths associated with this oncology. Now, these data clearly indicate a worsening of the situation in the future, if no action is taken, of course, if early diagnosis is not implemented. It happens that this early diagnosis will only be possible through a concerted strategy of screening to the population. However, and although all statistical data continue to place Portugal on the European tail in terms of colon cancer and rectum, Portugal continues to have no strategic plan for the implementation of organised and population-based screening. Now, considering the need to think strategically about a health problem that continues to kill many Portuguese people per day; considering that it is imperative to understand the human, social and even economic benefits of early detection of cancer; considering the need to find answers that will counter the trend observed in recent years with regard to cases and deaths caused by cancer; considering, finally, the Government's Office of 7 April, The Greens presents this legislative initiative, in order to recommend to the Government that, in the context of population-based screening in the areas of breast cancer, cervical, colon and rectum and diabetic retinopathy, not only take into account the recommendations and considerations of international scientific entities, but also that measures to be implemented by regional health administrations not only contain a strategic plan to ensure respect for defined goals, but also strengthen the link between health centres and endoscopic units for health care. On the other hand, we also want this plan to be able to ensure the improvement of the rate of adherence to screenings and, consequently, the detection of the disease in good time. It is now up to us to wait for the availability of the remaining seats in Parliament so that we can finally get an organized and population-based screening. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u139	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, oncological diseases are the main cause of death in people under 65 years of age. The screening does not prevent the emergence of an oncological disease, as we all know, but allows its early detection and this greatly improves the chances of survival to an oncological occurrence, greatly improves the quality of life of the person and increases in many years the average life expectancy, after an oncological occurrence. however, Portugal has failed a lot in the population-based oncological screenings. It has failed in its coverage, manifestly insufficient, and has failed in territorial equity, there being places where coverage is more or less guaranteed and therefore people have access to screening, and other places where people do not have access to screening at least. When the Left Block presented the project that we discussed today, in February of this year, the data concerning the 2014 report were disturbing. The coverage of breast cancer screening at the national level was 72%, but it worsened when we were going to see the coverage of cervical screening that was 44%, or the coverage of colon and rectum, which was below 10%. However, numbers relating to cancer diseases have already been published in the 2015 report and these data can only bother us even more, because they do not improve in relation to the previous report. in fact, the rates of adherence to screenings between 2010 and 2014 have decreased rather than increased. in the case of colon cancer and rectum, even reduced the number of users invited to do the screening. Geographical coverage rates remained stagnant for four years instead of increasing. When we compare Portugal with the other Member States of the European Union, we see that our country is among those with the highest mortality associated with colon cancer and rectum, exactly that for which there is a lower rate of population-based screening. So what the Left Block wants with the initiative it brings to Parliament is that the objective of geographical coverage of population-based screenings is 100 %, that the screenings cover the entire national territory. We also want regional health administrations to work so that not only is the coverage rate 100 %, but the accession rate is also 100 %, that is, everyone is tracking. We want the government, together with regional health administrations, health centres groupings and installed hospital units to achieve these objectives. And we really want these objectives to move from the ground to the ground, not to be in a mere order, that the measures are effectively applied and reach people. We want all this because we know that, by extending the screening, its coverage and adherence rate, we are helping to reduce mortality associated with cancer in our country and to increase survival rates, the years of life and the quality of life of people who, at a certain point, are faced with this giant battle that is the battle against cancer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u141	To make the presentation of draft resolution No 255 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Colo-retal cancer has had an increasing incidence in our country, currently being the most frequent malignant tumor in the digestive system. According to the International Cancer Research Agency (IAIC), cervical cancer is the third cause of cancer death worldwide. The data in the national oncological report show that currently in Portugal this disease is the second most frequent form of cancer, killing about 11 people a day. in this sense, it is necessary to implement an effective screening plan in our country that allows an early detection of the disease before the onset of symptoms, in order to increase the probability of recovery of the patient. Alongside the screening are known risk factors that increase the possibility of developing this type of cancer. Among them are factors such as reduced physical activity or a diet rich in fats and poor in fibers. In 2015, the world was forced to stop to reflect on the consumption of red and processed meat. A report by the International Cancer Research Agency, an agency of the World Health Organization, published on that date, came to officialize data that science has been gathering over several years regarding the negative effects on the health of high consumption of red meat and processed meat. On the basis of more than 800 scientific studies already published, the 22 experts from 10 countries that joined the International Cancer Research Agency working group concluded that this increased the risk of cervical cancer. Processed meat was included in the group of factors « carcinogens for humans », and the existence of « sufficient evidence of carcinogenic effects on humans » is at stake. The recent manuals Vegetarian feeding at school age and guidelines for a healthy vegetarian diet, published by the Directorate-General for Health, defend that, and I quote: « Populations with high or exclusive consumption of products of plant origin seem to be less likely to develop chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, certain types of cancer, diabetes and obesity». In view of this, it is clear the urgency of promoting the food quality of our citizens and of intensifying the screening of this pathology.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u143	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the period of intervention, without the presentation of a legislative initiative. by the Socialist Party, Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Oncological diseases are one of the causes of higher mortality among the Portuguese population. It is urgent to understand the causes, signal early and intervene in order to reverse the trend. The PSD, on January 15, 2010, called for an urgent debate on this subject and then asked the honourable Member Clara Carneiro of the PSD : « Where is the evaluation document of the Plan being implemented since 2007? Are we going to continue writing plans on paper without making an evaluation? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” After four years of PSD / CDS government, I return exactly the same question and ask what was done and where is the evaluation plan until 2015, with the aggravating that the de-investment made in the last four years in this area is based on the lack of response in this issue, both at the population response level and at the geographical distribution level. The XXI Constitutional Government of the Socialist Party establishes as a priority for health the strengthening of epidemiological surveillance, as well as the primary and secondary prevention of oncological disease, doing so with a new ambition, a new requirement and a new commitment. The latest report on cancer diseases in 2015, presented by DGS, reveals a great deal of concern about the increase in cervical cancer as well as regional asymmetries regarding access to screenings of this disease. The Ministry of Health, attentive to this reality, issues Dispatch No. 4771 -A / 2016, where it is responsible for regional health administrations for the implementation of population-based screenings in their geographical areas and in different pathologies, as well as for initiatives aimed at improving the population's adherence and literacy rate and monitoring of results obtained in their initiatives. This is why we welcome and are of great responsibility the recommendations of both the Left Block and the Green Block, both the NAP, in order to extend population-based screenings, ensuring equity between different regions and the strengthening of existing technical and human resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, prevention is the best treatment, I would say until prevention is the best intervention. Seven thousand new cases / year; 3800 deaths / year; 11 deaths/day due to colon cancer and rectum — this is the tragic record of the pathology we have to fight. Data from colon and rectum cancer screenings show a national coverage rate of less than 9, 3 %, which means that regions such as Lisbon and Tejo Valley and Algarve do not have colon and rectum tracking implemented, and regional cancer records are only a mirage. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is therefore urgent to promote the sharing of care between institutions; it is urgent to strengthen the priority character of cancer surgery, monitoring response times; and it is also urgent to develop survival studies to identify regional asymmetries and their causes, to reduce gradients between regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the health of Portuguese is an inalienable good; regional equity is an obligation of those who govern and of those who legislate; prevention, adherence and treatment are a responsibility of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u145	For an intervention by the PSD, Mr José António Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Cancer is the main cause of death in Portugal in people under 70 years of age. in all causes of mortality occupies the second place, after brain-cardiovascular diseases. The evidence that oncology is a priority for the PSD and that it was also for the previous government is that the National Programme for Oncological Diseases was considered a priority early in 2012. in recent years there have been significant progress in the prevention and treatment of colon cancer and rectum in Portugal, not only with the fight against waiting lists for surgery, but also with the installation of new radiotherapy units. The previous government developed clinical guidance standards for various cancers such as breast cancer, colon-retal cancer, cervical cancer, lung tumors and thyroid tumors. Regional oncological commissions were appointed in Lisbon and Tejo Valley, Alentejo and Algarve. In conjunction with the oral health program, an early diagnosis of oral cancer was implemented. Regular and uniform monitoring of screenings was implemented by ARS. Population-based screenings have advanced, but have advanced in a slower way than desirable. Its dynamics have been more regional than global, which causes some inequalities in access in geographical terms, ranging from an almost total coverage rate to one another, but still very insufficient for others. According to the report by the Directorate-General for Health, which assesses population-based cancer screenings for 2014, breast cancer screening is implemented in almost all regions and the national geographic coverage rate is 72%. The screening of colon cancer and rectum cancer is only partially implemented in the Central and Alentejo region, with a coverage rate of 50 % and 25 %, respectively. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we all know that the control of the disease and/or its treatment are as effective as the early diagnosis or its location. It is in this sense that we, PSD, understand that a strong bet should be made on prevention, through the screening of oncological diseases of the population base for breast cancers, the cervix of the uterus, colon and rectum, but also of diabetic retinopathy. While there is an increase in cancer screening programmes, expansion in all regions of the country is a priority. Regional asymmetries continue to exist and there are still regions where screenings are almost non-existent. The Ministry of Health has determined that ARS develops measures to implement population-based screenings in the areas of breast cancer, cervix, colon and diabetic retinopathy, but only ensuring the beginning of its effectiveness at the end of this year and total coverage until 2017. The draft resolutions before us do not deserve the PSD's opposition, insofar as they recommend that the Government extend the territorial coverage of the oncological screenings. It is unfortunate that the proposing parties have not established any timetable for the territorial coverage of these screenings and that the Government only intends to do so from 2018 onwards. We will then see whether this long-term will be achieved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u147	by the CDS-PP, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The area of oncology has long been a priority for the CDS. At present — it is worth remembering why it is better than ‘putting your head on the sand’ to talk about matters — one in every Portuguese will have at least one cancer during your life. These cases are increasing and will continue to increase. The increase in the number of new cases per year, which is estimated to increase by 2030 to 50 000 new cases per year, reinforces this concern. Access and cost weighting in the case of innovative medicines is another of our concerns, since there will be a difference between what corresponds to a new one and which will not always be translated into innovation. This has high costs for everyone, for patients, to whom unrealistic expectations are created, and for society, for whom there is an expensive bill of inefficiency and inhumanity. The CDS has long defended the immediate implementation of systematic screenings of cancer types with a higher incidence in the Portuguese population, susceptible to early diagnosis through population-based screenings, covering the entire national territory. We did so through a project presented in this Chamber already in 2009, which aimed to ensure more health gains for the populations and it is worth remembering, Mr.António Sales, that at that time the PS voted against. These projects presented today go in line with what we have already proposed and therefore welcome their presentation. For us, it is important to ensure the response and proper planning of them, in the medium and long term, throughout the national territory, both in terms of human resources and in terms of specific equipment. It should therefore be remembered that strengthening screening also requires strengthening treatment measures with prompt response across the country. This implies a correct budgeting and allocation of the corresponding funds and, as we have already said today, in a scenario of economic constraints and anticipated freezing of public administration expenditure, and in a scenario where an important part of health funding is to regulate debts, how can objective and effective guarantees that these programmes will be realized? We therefore welcome the promises of the government office and the projects on cervical cancer, breast cancer, the cervix of the uterus and diabetic retinopathy; we will surely follow them, but we will, yes, be attentive to their implementation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u149	For an intervention by the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have often stated, the CFP considers health promotion and disease prevention to be the most effective strategy for the quality of life of populations and for the sustainability of the National Health Service. Preventing the disease passes through screening through an early detection of health problems whose early treatment saves suffering and years of life. Early screening and detection of diseases are an important element of national disease programmes. Early diagnosis decreases morbidity, suffering, costs associated with treatment, and increases the likelihood of survival. The prevalence of oncological diseases has been increasing in our country. Colon and rect cancer is the second cancer oncological in Portugal, being only overcome by breast cancer, in women, and by prostate and trachea cancer, bronchial and lung, in men, according to 2010 data. Among oncological diseases, colon and rectum cancer has been increasing in its prevalence. According to the Directorate-General of Health, in 2015 colon cancer had a prevalence of 47, 6 / 100 000 and rectum cancer 22, 7 / 100 000. The incidence rate of tumors has been increasing. Between 2012 and 2014, the number of invited users to track the cancer of the colon and the challenge decreased, as did the number of those who did the screening. This decrease must concern us all! But it cannot also be disconnected from the exit of professionals from the National Health Service and from the difficulties it faced in the past four years. The extensive tracking program is fundamental. It is not important to select samples or track only the users to whom blood has already been detected in the faeces. It is necessary for the screening to have a population base, i.e. to be applied to all citizens who meet the characteristics to achieve it. The benefits of early detection compensate the extent of screening for all citizens. The government, in its office published at the beginning of the month, takes measures to carry out screenings for breast cancers, cervix, colon and rectum. This is a positive measure, which resumes the spirit of health programs in which primary health care has taken an effective role in disease prevention and health promotion. Early screening and diagnosis implies that the Government guarantees the National Health Service material and human resources. Only the appropriate number of health professionals ensures full follow-up and due attention to primary prevention and therefore the strengthening of the intervention capacity of the National Health Service, its appreciation and appreciation of its professionals are the only way to effectively maintain screening programs. It is also important to note that cancer has a close relationship with eating habits and lifestyles. It is known that economic shortages and poverty have a close relationship not only with poor eating conditions, but also with risk behaviors and with the absence of health care. Therefore, preventing this type of disease also means creating better living conditions for citizens, in particular by improving their incomes and enhancing their existence. The CFP's Parliamentary Group appreciates the initiative of the Greens Ecological Party to schedule this issue which allowed the plenary to bring this discussion. The CFP Parliamentary Group accompanies these concerns and, as it has proposed, will continue to fight for the valorization of primary health and public health care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-04-21.u151	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, so the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 191 / XIII ( 1 ) is concluded. ( a ), of Os Verdes, 143 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), BE, and 255 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) the NAP, and with this the order of business today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: the first item is the general discussion of Bill No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Return of cultural property which has been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 60 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. The general debate of Bill No 156 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Safeguarding the regularisation of livestock and other holdings by extending the period laid down in Decree-Law No 165 / 2014 ( PS ). of the third point, is the joint discussion of draft resolutions n. 161 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthening and extending the National Vaccination Programme ( BE ), 254 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the National Vaccination Programme ( CFP ) and 259 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) — On updating the National Programme for Vaccination (The Greens). The fourth point consists of a joint debate on draft resolutions 131 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the participation, by step A, of creams and compressive clothing for burned persons, where properly prescribed by the assistant physician or of Dermatology or Plastic Surgery ( CDS-PP ) and 256 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to support and protect burned persons ( BE ). Finally, the assessment of petition No 9 / XIII ( 1 ) will take place. a ) — Submitted by Ana Carina Branco da Silva Pereira and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for legislation to extend the maternity leave to 6 months, for the health of babies, in general, with the projects of lein.o 174 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 by strengthening the protection regime in parenthood ( NAP ) and 176 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the initial parental leave and the period of exemption for breastfeeding ( BE ). There will also be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the following: Mr President has asked me to remind you, because you certainly already know that, within the framework of the commemorations of 40. the anniversary of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, there are several ceremonies and ephemeris. Thus, for 18 hours, the opening of the exhibition The proof of time — 40 years of constitution, commemorative of the 40 years of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 29 minutes.]]
