ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin our session, whose agenda is a marking of the PCP and consists in the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 233 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August, strengthening the deterrence of illegal activity in taxi transport ( CFP ), and I will ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 20 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 70 / 2010 of 16 June laying down the scheme for determining the conditions of resources of the social benefits of the family protection and solidarity subsystems and other public social support ( ALRAM ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; projects of lein.o 240 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Reposition of limits on the expulsion of foreign nationals from national territory ( Fourth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for entry, stay, departure and removal of foreign nationals from national territory ) ( CFP ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; 241 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by extending the appropriations covered by the Salary Guarantee Fund ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 242 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recognizes the right to gender self-determination ( BE ) ; which falls to 1. the Commission and 243 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Creates the obligation to indicate the country of origin in the milk labelling for human consumption ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 329 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the rehabilitation of the West line ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 330 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish as a priority the re-qualification of the National Road 238, in the section between Cernache do Bonjardim and Ferreira do Zêzere ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 331 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate on 16 May as the Day of Scientists ( PS ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let us therefore begin our work. I'm asking the ladies. Members to make a little silence so that we can begin the interventions on Bill No 233 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) submitted by the CFP, which is under discussion. For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: by promoting this agenda for today's plenary session in the Assembly of the Republic, the CFP Parliamentary Group intends to contribute to a serious discussion and with concrete answers to the serious situation in the taxi sector. We want to greet the representative organizations of the sector and thousands of workers, drivers, drivers on their own, small industrial and cooperatives, who continue to work, resist and fight in defense of a sector which is an integral part of the transport system and which, in many regions of the country, is the only public transport that the people have. In fact, it is important to stress that the taxi sector has been facing difficulties for a long time. When the unfair and illegal competition of multinationals appeared, the sector was already decapitalized, discussing real problems, from taxation to the issue of the transport of children, patients, non-emergency patients, through the regulation of training, etc. These were problems such as those that should have been debated and resolved and which were so often raised by the CFP in the Assembly of the Republic. But on the contrary, what happened was the worsening of these problems during PSD / CDS-PP governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u6	Now, when many small industrialists or drivers on their own were already in a distressing situation, of enormous difficulty, and, in many cases, already returning the targets and closing the activity, that is, when the situation was already serious, the sector was then confronted with the illegal competition of a multinational American who arrived in Portugal as it landed on the land of no one and entered into activity outside the law, calmly continuing as if it were nothing. This situation of impunity, which is causing indignation and revolt in the taxi sector, has to have a concrete response and a final point on the part of the State and the authorities. Article 13. , paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic establishes the principle of equality and states: « all citizens have the same social dignity and are equal before the law ». The requirements that are put to the taxi sector are well-known. It is a regulated sector with licensing rules and access to activity. The competent authorities and the regulations in force determine the characteristics of vehicles and quotas, i.e. how many taxis may exist in each municipality; the training, fitness and certification of drivers are laid down in the legal and regulatory framework; the price arrangements are defined by law decree and the rates are determined by convention. All of this applies and requires the taxi sector and there are those who do not comply with any of these rules and present themselves as being above the law. They may think they are above the law but they are not, and they must take the measures necessary to ensure that the law is equal for all and that the idea of crime is not to remain. [[PCP applause.]] This is the objective of this initiative and of this proposal from the CFP: to strengthen the deterrent measures and the effectiveness of procedural mechanisms in monitoring and in combating illegal activity in taxi transport, and it is important to clarify what we are talking about now. According to the competent authorities, with the courts, there is no controversy in this matter: the carriage of passengers by light car in Portugal is by taxi. There are no escapes or diversion maneuvers that deceive this fact. As an economic activity, there cannot be a privileged situation for anyone. Therefore, this discussion is about the consequences that result for those who develop or promote or make the pledge...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u7	Mr Bruno Dias, I apologize for interrupting but there is a noise in the Chamber that prevents any concentration in your words. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing, some almost back to the Bureau, please sit down or, if you want to talk, please leave. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. He said that this discussion is about the consequences that result for those who develop, promote, engage, or broker the transport of passengers outside the legal rules. That is the discussion and not the other. This is not a discussion about technologies, platforms or applications. In fact, as we have come to stress, platforms there are many and also in Portugal. There is a positive balance of platforms and technological solutions in the taxi sector. in an important sector cooperative, the information that has been transmitted to us is that one in every three taxi services that are called is activated by the smartphone platform. The question is precisely this: either the platforms and services associated with them comply with the rules of the sector in which they fit or simply cannot be allowed. We therefore put forward these proposals to strengthen measures at this level. It must be clear and from now on that we want it to be a normative solution specifically applicable to the activity without license and not indiscriminately. We are not talking about automatic mechanisms, but about more effective processes that can be addressed in legal terms. We want to value and thank the contributions received from the representative structures of the sector, specifically referring to those relating to the regulation of platforms and to the regulation of tourism animation activities. This is also a debate in which we will be actively participating and will contribute to it. We repeat and underline: the problem is growing because there has been passivity and this cannot continue. We want to set an example by proposing measures, and we express complete openness, willingness to work together and find the best solutions in the legislative process. This is an urgent response to an urgent problem that is being put in the sector, does not intend to replace any discussion but, rather, to contribute to this discussion, to launch a debate process in the Assembly of the Republic, work at legislative level, and that is why we want to say that the whole House should be open and mobilized for this work and for this discussion. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u9	Mr President, the Bureau records three entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u10	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u11	Mr António Eusebius has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, I welcome your initiative today. We're talking about a public transport problem. The tourist trip is the one in which at least two of the transport services are combined — accommodation, non-subsidised tourist services of transport and accommodation — where the non-subsidised transport and accommodation services are, in particular, those related to sporting, religious and cultural events, provided they represent a significant part of the trip. These services consist of the organization of a journey to participate in a particular sporting, religious or cultural event. What goes on is not the subject of the question itself, because there are travel agencies using their own means of transport, with a lot of up to nine places, usually intended for the transfer between the airport and other points of arrival of tourists, to hotels or other accommodation places, to serve at the time when they are required or occasionally in receptions, as if by taxi. With the deburocratization, dematerialization and simplification of access and exercise of the activity of travel and tourism companies, this situation has occurred a little throughout the country. It should be noted that travel and tourism agencies develop, on an accessory basis, the tourist transport carried out in the context of a tourist trip, as provided for in the legislation. But, according to a combined interpretation of the legal requirements, it seems to us that it was the intention of the legislator to allow travel and tourism agencies to exercise their own exercise, through own means of transport with a lot of up to nine places, in a manner that is accessible to the transport activity, when and only framed on a tourist trip. However, from a practical point of view, this legislation has triggered the proliferation of situations of direct and completely disproportionate competition between the transport activity carried out by travel and tourism agencies and the activity of public rental carriers. On the other hand, in view of the large legislative openness and consequently the possibility of the generic legal concepts of creating various interpretative currents on the feasibility of the operation of the transport service isolated by travel and tourism agencies, many of which can generate concrete situations of direct and disproportionate competition between the public transport and rental sector and the travel and tourism agency sector, this situation has led to the fact that the supervisory authorities have affirmed the understanding of the lack of control instruments in these specific situations. thus, we can conclude that the various entities involved are not faced with a monitoring problem but, rather, with a problem of legislative omission regarding the monitoring instruments they have, with regard to the transport activity developed by travel and tourism agencies. Therefore, Mr Bruno Dias, given the seriousness of this problem, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr President, does it not seem to you that, in addition to avoiding litigation, the opportunity should be taken to promote the legislative initiative which amends the legislative diploma establishing the system of access to the activity of travel and tourism agencies, so as to specify or restrict the transport activity carried out by travel and tourism agencies, thereby avoiding the tightening of direct and disproportionate competition with the rental public transport sector, maintaining only and only when they combine a transport with another service? Does it not seem to you that the legislative concepts of reception and assistance to tourists should be implemented, and so on, travel by measure, if they allow the exercise of the accessory activity of transport by travel and tourism agencies, replacing the generic concepts that seem to allow the isolated exercise of the transport activity by travel and tourism agencies? Do you not think that there should be mechanisms for compulsory licensing, training, legal limitation of the number of vehicles, daily routes, description of services or even creating a standardized identification of vehicles affected by travel and tourism agencies in order to facilitate monitoring activities for legal compliance? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u13	The honourable Member has exceeded his time, but, as is normal in these circumstances, we are discounted at the time of the Parliamentary Group. There's no problem with that. The only problem that exists is that there is still an abnormal noise in the room and I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who contribute for the meeting to continue, making a little silence or then moving abroad, where they can speak loudly. To request clarification from Mr Bruno Dias, Mr Joel Sá, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting the Communist Party for bringing this matter to debate, as well as the representatives of the sector. We see that the Government is not present in this important debate and that it wants to get away from this debate. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u15	It is public knowledge that the Government has set up a working group to discuss this issue and we have found that the CFP is not part of this working group, although it belongs to the current government. He was excluded. Is today's debate justified by being out of this group or by wanting to take a stand? [[PCP protests.]] We believe that this debate that you wanted to bring here today is important, but the ANTRAL (National Association of Road Transporters in Light Cars), through your president, who was in a hearing today, acknowledged that this debate and its bill do not solve the problem; the CFP invited the representatives of the Association to be present but they refused to participate. Have you considered the risks of the proposal before this debate? Were the impacts that the sanctions would have on the sector were evaluated? Were the measures they presented tested? Is it a casuistic proposal or not, merely to mark position? The principle that we should follow in the debate on this subject is, above all, to take into account what is best for citizens and consumers. The debate should focus on what is most useful and more advantageous for civil society. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u16	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u17	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to begin by welcoming your initiative to bring the debate to the hot issue of taxi service and Uber. I would like to point out that, in general, we BE are in agreement with the content of the proposal, because we believe that there should be no more allowability with illegal practices and, as such, it should be for the authorities to monitor and penalise these activities, strengthening, if possible, those same penalties. We also agree that this new supervisory attitude can promote greater safety of passengers, improve working conditions and the conditions in which industry drivers operate. Finally, we believe that the inaction that has existed by the authorities, and that the CFP refers well to the explanatory statement of its project, cannot continue to be tolerated. As such, it seems to us that the proposal has been explained in the terms in which it was made. however, we think it is possible to go a little further in defining and regulating the activity of the taxi sector so that modernity and transparency also gain greater prevalence in this same activity. in these terms, we ask whether the PCP is available for a work of legislative improvement in the regulation of the sector activity and also the quality and transparency of the provision of taxi service, as well as improving the working conditions in which professionals perform this activity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u18	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thanking all the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies Antonio Eusébio, of PS, Joel Sá, of PSD, and Heitor de Sousa, of BE, start with the last question regarding the problem of working conditions and precariousness. We know that the exercise of the driver's profession in the taxi sector is a regulated exercise, not only as regards the course of the activity in relation to certification, which has to be renewed, etc. , but to the ability itself, to train and certify the capabilities of drivers. It is appropriate to say that, even so, in this context of regulated activity, taxi drivers are subject to a situation of great difficulties, precariousness and working conditions that leave them to wish and that require, in fact, an attention and an answer that has often been demanded and aroused by the representative organisations of their workers, notably the Fectrans ( Federation of Transport and Communications Unions ), which has drawn attention to the issue of precariousness in the exercise of the profession, that workers suffer in the skin on a day-to-day basis. But this situation is also, by itself itself, a consequence of the precariousness in which the taxi sector is in its entirety. That is, when we check the situations, the difficulties and the working conditions of the drivers themselves as professionals and workers, then what is the discussion that we will have to do when it is found that, for these multinationals who appear as the oversupply of modernity, none of these requirements are placed and the precariousness and exploitation are much more serious? on the international level, unfortunately, more than known are the inhuman exploitation situations in which workers are found in these multinational companies in other countries. This has happened and has caused situations, from a labour and social point of view, to enormous seriousness. So we should not be waiting for this to happen the opposite of what happened out there with the same recipe. That is why we need to ensure that the rules are complied with and not put an end to them, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree. On the other hand, we want to go further in discussing the problems of the sector. We have said this right now in the intervention of opening up this debate. We said and reaffirmed that this discussion on the dissuasive measures to ensure that the law is complied with is not a discussion that impedes or replaces the other debates that are effectively related to the wider solution to the problems, which are diverse, in the taxi sector in relation to this activity. We know that this is an ongoing discussion, we know that this is a working group involving the sector and the authorities of the State and the CFP never intended to be the authority of the State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u20	Moreover, in this country, it is known the temptation of the PSD to confuse party and state, but we are not from this club.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u21	Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u22	We want to say here that we are fully open to this discussion, so that it will be done with our contribution and in an open, available and serious way, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen — and seriously! In addition, we continue to consider that it is necessary to ensure in particular that the activities that are interrelated, from the point of view of tourism, from the point of view of mobility, from the point of view of intermodal transport, etc. , are activities that are interrelated but that do not stumble. right now, what's happening is that we have activities that you guys are doing. Members bring to the discussion as being interrelated but which, in fact, are activities that may potentially clash with each other—and are already collapsing with each other—, often causing accidents in the local economy, where accidents have occurred from the point of view of the relationship between activities and abuse and non-compliance with the rules. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that the central problem is in the omission or in the legal void. from our point of view and from the point of view of the sector, the main problem at the moment is the non-compliance of the law. Of course we are here to discuss the adequacy of the law, to improve solutions and ensure the best answers, but the problem is not because the law is omitted, it is because the law is not being complied with, it is because the law seems not to be the same for everyone, and that is that it is unacceptable. In fact, when the PSD raises as the first question the fact that the PCP is not part of the sector's working group, it is appropriate to say,... [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] ... Mr Member, who, even if not in the working group, the CFP is already doing more for the taxi sector than the PSD, who was in the government, did in four and a half years. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Because the PSD, in the government, was a cab sector wrecked the taxi sector, harmed the sector. [[PCP applause.]] And even with regard to tax matters, transport regulations, health issues, the PSD/CDS government has harmed the taxi sector and we are trying to contribute to solutions to problems that you have helped to cause. [[PSD protests.]] And we want to remember — if you are distracted, because you were not at the meeting where you said that ANTRAL said what you said, and you were not because I was there and I didn't see you — that the CFP has been there for more than a year, a year and a half, two years ago (I don't know if you were here) raised this problem. But at the time, there was the PSD and the CDS in the government and the problem was not addressed or answered, it worsened, they left, 'pulse the belly' and that is why the situation is like this. More than that, no, thank you, Mr. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u23	Put the charge on everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u24	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legal regime for the activity of taxi transport is established and set out in Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August. The first note that the Greens want to leave in this debate is that, outside this table, there is no legal prediction of any other activity related to this sector. But more: under the legal regime of taxi transport, this activity is subject to a rigorous licensing process, a set of legal procedures that constitute the exercise of taxi transport. From the outset, the law requires a target which is issued by the Institute for Mobility and Transport and also requires the licensing of vehicles which is made by the municipal chamber where the activity of taxi transport is intended to be carried out. But it requires even more, from the type of car, which, in fact, has been equipped with a taximeter, to the lot of the car. In addition, the vehicle must be driven by drivers duly qualified with professional capacity certificate. The characteristics of the car for taxi transport are due and detailedly planned, and up to the price charged by the taxi transport service is determined by legal diploma. So we have a regulated activity up to the detail. It has happened that, for about two years, we have been watching new operators in this area who, unlike taxi transport, are not subject to any of these legal requirements, whether on cars or on drivers or on the price of the service provided. And they are not subject to these legal requirements because they are simply exercising or developing an activity outside the law, which means that we have, on the one hand, a taxi transport activity to which the State imposes, and in our view, an extended set of legal requirements and requirements and, on the other hand, we have an activity which, while developing a similar service, is literally free from any licensing process and any other legal requirements. In other words, we have a properly regulated and regulated activity in accordance with the law and another which, although doing a similar service, is out of the reach of the law, and is therefore illegal. In this regard I recall the words of the President of the Institute for Mobility and Transport himself when, for more than a year, in a parliamentary committee here in the Assembly of the Republic, he stated clearly that « the services provided through Uber constitute a violation of specific transport legislation ». However, this Assembly of the Republic, for a matter of justice but also for a culture of responsibility and also for the need to assert the primacy of the law, cannot remain indifferent to what is happening and continue to allow some to exercise an activity without any requirements and to the margin of the law while others are subject to a rigorous licensing process in order to be able to carry out the same activity. What we are discussing today is whether we continue to pretend that nothing is going on, that everything is okay, is all within the law, which was, in fact, what the previous government did, pretending not to see the problem, or then acting for the defense of the rule of law. from The Greens, we understand that it is necessary to create mechanisms that can strengthen respect for the law, mechanisms that can deter the practice of activities that are exercised outside the law but that also inhibit the use of files, such as how to avoid litigation, a practice, indeed, recurrent by multinational Uber, as we all know. Therefore, what we believe is that the solutions proposed by the CFP today that bring us to the discussion may not solve the problem completely but certainly represent an excellent contribution to the strengthening of respect for the law: respect for cases of cars affected by licences which, although issued to certain municipalities, develop their activity in different councils, particularly in Lisbon, and, above all, respect for cases where the transport activity is done completely outside the law and any licensing. The Greens therefore consider that the proposals that the Portuguese Communist Party brings today for discussion contribute to addressing the needs of asserting the rule of law, preventing illegality from continuing and installing itself as normal—which, in fact, happened in the face of the previous government's attitude, which pretended not to see the problem— still seeking to solve a public transport problem that the previous government literally ignored. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u26	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are faced with another situation in which the law is behind the reality that it should regulate. New technologies, including new technology based on technology platforms, bring new opportunities to all economic areas. And here too, we have a situation in which the development of technology has surpassed today's regulation of the sector. For the Socialist Party, what is crucial is to make the following clear: in a rule of law, there cannot be activities that are not permitted and regulated in the law. This cannot happen, subject to the penalty of violating the minimum rules of the rule of law. But we also understand that this is an opportunity, an opportunity considering that what is at stake here is not just the problem of a sector. We need to discuss the issue in its global framework, which is clearly the framework for public transport related to urban mobility, and this can be an opportunity for us to change and improve what is clearly out of time regulation. In fact, we need to prepare legislation for these new realities. Entrepreneurs themselves and workers in the sector recognize that there are a set of rules that are completely outdated, that do not serve the interests of the entrepreneurs in the sector, do not solve the problems or protect the interests of the workers. So we need to take this opportunity to introduce a set of changes here too, where Simplex and Zero License can play an important role. Therefore, together with all the partners — in particular, taking into account the initiative that the Government has already announced to set up a working group — we will take care of the interests at stake here. And the interests at stake here are the public interest, the regulation of urban mobility issues, the interest of the user and the citizen who uses the public transport service and, of course, the interest of workers and industry in the sector. We understand that this initiative of the CFP makes all the sense, brings to the public discussion a problem that needs to be addressed and discussed in this House of the Republic. however, we also believe that any legislative initiative must wait for the completion of the work of the working group set up by the Government, which has 60 days to present its conclusions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u28	The Bureau shall record two entries for clarification. Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u29	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u30	You have the floor to make the first request for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u31	Mr President, Mr Bexiga, I will turn to the subject, what is under discussion and not what we would like to discuss or what Mr has tried not to discuss. The Portuguese Communist Party — and well, I want to congratulate you and enhance your coherent coherence — brings here a debate only and only on the repressive path, which is always good for the Portuguese Communist Party, and not exactly about what happened in your intervention. I would like to say that at no time did the sector say that it was afraid of Uber, that it was afraid of competition or that it was afraid of whatever it was, and that we talked to the sector and heard the industry organizations. What they do not want is unfair competition, they want to see a set of problems solved, problems that have long been identified. And I even find it cheap that the previous governance may be the target of criticism, but it is good to remember that either the Portuguese Communist Party, or the Left Block, or the Green Party, or the Socialist Party, are government and therefore the first note I leave, so that this debate is not a useless debate, should have the presence of the Minister or of one of the Government, in order to be able, together with the'management', once and for all, to come to tell the sector to which it comes, what it wants and what the solutions are. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But the honourable Member cannot say this: 'Well, we are studying the matter'. I am afraid that will take a long time, Mr President. We have a State Secretary who says taxi drivers aren't serious. There are interviews where Mr. Secretary of State of the Environment says taxi drivers are not serious. Well, I don't think that's a good start. And we have a minister who, in debate of the State budget, says: « Uber is illegal, therefore, zero tolerance». I would like to ask what has already been done, what has the government done, what are the results, what is the result? Obviously, for the Government to do what it has to do is enforce the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u33	Then we'll be here to discuss what it is and what isn't Uber's perspective. I must tell you that we have nothing against innovation. If there is insufficient regulation, we will have to regulate, we will have to study, we will have to talk to the sector, but what I think is fundamental, and it is time to discuss, is what the government has promised. I wish you could tell me what the situation is, because the government has answered, well, that there is an investment of nearly EUR 17 million for training and training of taxi drivers. All right, there's a lot of people asking for it, and there's a lot of them asking for support for the renewal of fleets. The Government has made a brutal increase in taxes on fuels that affect the sector and it is necessary to find solutions so that the sector no longer has a difficulty there, plus a constraint on its activity. There is unfair competition, not from Uber, but from services that are illegal, from those who do taxi service without being properly credited for this and this is also a problem. So if you can tell us what has already been done, in this working group or in another, about what has been a promise made to the sector, which has 10, 12 measures, it is time for the government to tell us. It is because the government recognizes the problem, made promises, quantified and it is time to govern, for a very simple reason: if some of these measures are carried out, the sector is able to face the future, to face the challenges and to face the Uber or other platform, whatever it is. We cannot unbalance these two interests that are at stake here, ignoring problems that exist and that the Communist Party, the Left Block and the PS also identify, even quantifying and promising to solve. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I can also bear my own blame, but it is not worth having a debate on a sector and an important matter such as this systematically looking at the rearviewer — they are going to have an accident! So do the favor of ruling, do the favor of telling what they are coming and do the favor of saying what has been done so far to combat illegality and to solve the problems of the sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u34	For a request for clarification, Mr António Topa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the Communist Party on this legislative initiative and I would like to ask the PS Member a question. The exercise of the passenger transport activity with a driver is regulated and regulated in accordance with the law. It has been declared by the court that this activity of other operators on the market, in particular the case of Uber, is an illegal activity. If it is an illegal activity, I, as a Member, even participate in the drafting of the laws, if you need to be transported, of course, I will have to call a taxi to transport me, because it is the only regulated entity that has license of the activity and will target. I'm perfectly defined. Of course, I've never used Uber and therefore I can't tell if it's good or if it's bad, but let's hear some reports around there that people are very well attended, drivers are educated, there are people who today use Uber services to be transported. in my personal case, I cannot use this service; in my personal case, I only use taxi, because it is the only activity of this type that is regulated and regulated in this country. If there is a need to change the law, to regulate differently, if it is understood that these types of new activities that are emerging are more modern and more innovative, these are issues of legislation and that legislation has to frame. Of course, we cannot provide coverage for illegal activities in this country, because if any small businessman or any small industrial person does not have his licensed activity, go there to ASAE and raise a fine for him, causing him a problem. So we all live in the same country and it is important that the law be the same for all. The Minister of the Environment says that Uber is illegal; the President of the IMT (Instituto de Mobility et de Transportes ) says that Uber is illegal; the current Under-Secretary of State and Environment, who protects the folder, said that airport taxi drivers are not serious and uneducated, saying: "For those offering such a disqualified service as that of taxi drivers in the capital airport square, ANTRAL should moderate its threats. The Uber is a strange case of success». It also states that "the regulation of the road transport sector is very conservative, having not adapted to the extraordinary changes of recent years, due to the advent of the Internet and the generalisation of mobile devices. It is so natural that innovations like that of Uber have to take a path that does not seem easy but that will, in my view, be inexorable». Of course, I do not know whether Mr. Secretary of State would make the same statements today, but the question I want to put to the PS and the government has to do with the following: Uber's activity was considered illegal in the summer of 2015. Don't you think it's time to take a stand about Uber and other companies that engage in illegal activity? It's just that they've been engaged in illegal activity for a long time. Or if you think you should change the law, make a new law, regulate new realities, more modern as many say, then do it! We cannot go through this all our lives because an opinion has been requested from the European Union, but what is needed is to make a law in Portugal. And while the activity is illegal, it should not work. That's what I meant. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u36	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u37	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, first of all, I would like to make it clear that the Government could not be here today when it has a working group working, where it is discussing with its partners the solutions that will then bring here to this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP and PSD protests.]] What could not happen was that the Government had set up this working group and, before the working group, with all its partners, to present its conclusions and legislative proposals, it appeared here alone to present conclusions which are not the conclusions of that working group. The second explanation I want to give you is that it is not up to the government to execute court judgments. The court has decided and, of course, there are mechanisms of the rule of law now for the judicial decision to be duly complied with. What the government has to do — and that is what it is doing — is to create conditions for the law not only to be fulfilled as it is improved. But more than that, the government, in addition to its concern, has already presented a package of measures for the modernisation of the taxi sector, where we have three objectives, 10 measures and 17 million euros of investment, this package which deserved the agreement of the taxi sector representatives. However, I would like to underline the initial idea of my speech, Mr President. This is not just a cab sector problem. It is a problem of public interest, of mobility and of urban public transport, it is a problem of the interest of the user, and of course it is also a problem of businessmen and workers in the sector. And this working group, together with the Government, I am sure, will bring here, to the Assembly of the Republic, the best solutions to find a solution that pleases everyone and responds to all the needs of the interests involved in this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u38	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We welcome again the initiative to bring this debate here. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group includes the challenges facing the transport of rental on passenger vehicles with drivers, with pre-established routes and by pay. It is a subject that has been very well in public discussion. According to several judicial decisions and what the regulatory authority tells us, this type of transport is only legally permitted through taxi. This is something we cannot escape from, because Portugal is a rule of law and the law must be fulfilled. Then the creation of a working group by the Government, defended by the Socialist Party, with a mixed composition, is a highlight. It is important to modernize the sector, to find solutions. The Socialist Party does not "put its head on the sand" in relation to innovations in the sector. Innovation is necessary, new technologies, information technologies, transport. However, we cannot allow these technologies to violate the law. thus, we greet the debate and greet the working group. We also welcome the fact that the Assembly of the Republic, through a set of hearings, can build this law in a clear and incisive way. The Socialist Party continues to defend electric mobility as one of the answers—just look at the proposals for the modernization of the taxi sector. I see that both the PSD and CDS benches are very amusing with the debate, but I remember that nothing has been done in recent years on this subject. [[PSD protests.]] No working group has been created, no modernization has been done. Nothing has been done! When the PSD and CDS were in government, what working group was created? What has been done about this matter? [[PSD protests.]] Then it is also necessary to modernise the fleet—and this taxi modernization project points out this, the modernization of the fleet—and to place the taxis, which are often the first means by which many tourists see our country, at the level they deserve. It is therefore necessary, either through Community funds or through the Portuguese Carbon Fund, to respond to the necessary changes, both at the environmental level and at the level of better quality of service. Then we have to adapt to changes. It has already been said by Mr Bexiga that innovation is necessary in the sector, and the law must correspond to that innovation. However, we cannot forget the law. It is true that we no longer live in the 1950s or 60s, but we should not look at the sector as a non-compliance of the law. Portugal is a rule of law and that will certainly be the answer. We therefore welcome the debate and welcome the fact that the Assembly of the Republic can find a legislative solution to this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u40	To request clarification, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u41	Mr President, Mr Hugo Costa, unlike Mr Hélder Amaral, who welcomed this initiative, I must confess that I do not welcome the initiative because I think that the CFP today has given a very bad service to the cause and has not even been able to help anyone who intends to help. In fact, today, the proposal we have is not to debate the problem. The proposal that we have and that the CFP brings us is that there are more fines, double fines, as if that were the solution. But more than that, and besides not solving the problem, comes to expose here the Socialist Party and the Government, which too, perhaps, was something that could be tried to avoid. It is because those who attend this debate at some point think that the CFP is opposition, they think that BE is opposition, they think that PS itself is opposition. It was not enough to spend the week listening to the censures and criticisms of the PCP and BE, which on Friday vote with the PS, and we still had to listen to the PCP saying to the PS « you do not resolve, you do not overcome the problem », as if they did not even know and the « management» did not exist. The truth, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, this problem is going a lot further than the issue of fines. This is a problem in which justice is, in fact, called for equality. Certainly, if we are to ask the entities of the sector, the entrepreneurs of the sector, none of them give as an answer or as a solution the mere duplication of fines. And today we lose the opportunity to discuss the problem "of yarn to pavio" because the Portuguese Communist Party has centered it on just the issue of fines. And it is even curious to be the PCP to want to solve things for more repression — curious, or perhaps not. With regard to the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party, which has already said everything and its opposite on this subject, even with some very unfortunate statements, has no solution to the problem (it was manifest), but for now it has been promising a few million, throwing money on the problem, as if that were the solution. The Socialist Party, when not resolved, creates mission units or working groups. Again, on one of these issues, the PS's answer is: we're waiting, we're studying. One last repair, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to say the following: we are often accused outside of discussing things that do not matter to the country. Today, this is a debate that interests the country, which has been in the newspapers for months and months. The policy is also made of signs, and today it would have been an excellent opportunity for the government to be represented, whether it was with respect to the Assembly or with respect to those professionals. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u42	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u43	Mr President, Mr Hugo Costa, we have already had here during this debate, and we have now again had this extraordinary choreography of the PSD, to say everything and its opposite, to realize that you do not hear, to talk about the interventions you pretend not to hear, to talk about the other parties, without having the notion of the ridiculousness to which you are exposed when you talk about the ridicule of others. Despite this, when attempting to accuse the CFP of not solving taxi sector problems, it was important to have some memory to remember what, for more than three years, was done to solve the cab sector problem — that is, nothing! Therefore, we are now debating urgent solutions to urgent problems, without prejudice to a more in-depth debate, which, from the very beginning, have been pointing out the availability to do. This, when, in spite of everything, we have the PSD, finally talking about the problem, when solutions appear. It is that while I was in the government I was not talking about the problem, not more or less, because I was not looking at the rearviewer, Mr. Hélder Amaral, but looking at the phone waiting for a Brussels text, because that was how it would be resolved: when Brussels sent, so it would be done here and so it would be settled at the order of whom it was sent. That's not how we solve the problems, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. And we hope that this will not be the way to deal with this problem either. We have an urgent situation here to solve. We have now heard the criticism of those who think it is a matter of little importance that of deepening the dissuasive measures, that of deepening the penalties for those outside the law, for those who consider that it is above the law, for those who consider it to find measures from the point of view of the mechanisms of procedure and supervision and its consequences to be irrelevant. However, if the economic power of multinationals, the power of money, is stated in litigation, resources, payment of everything that appears to be fines to pay, provided that this allows the machine to walk and continue to crush, in an unfair and illegal manner, competition, and if this issue of payment and combating evil litigation is indeed an urgent response, a specific answer, a concrete answer to a specific problem that is being posed, we ask: then, what are you afraid, Mr Presidents? Ladies and gentlemen? And here's the question for all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are afraid of what, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u44	Let's vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u45	Are you afraid the law will be fulfilled? Oh, my God! Are you afraid the law will be the same for everyone? Oh, my God! Are they afraid that the law will be effectively monitored and that it will be ensured that the law is enforced? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u46	Let's vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u47	So what are you afraid of? With regard to the mechanisms proposed by the CFP in relation to specific matters, are they afraid that this matter will be effectively discussed? The gentlemen. Are members of the PSD and the CDS afraid of the debate? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We are available to continue discussing, we are available to continue working together. And, therefore, the question we are asking and the question that is addressed to Mr Hugo Costa and to the PS is about the concept itself, i.e. finding mechanisms from the point of view of supervision to enforce the law, finding mechanisms which are perfected in the Assembly of the Republic and which, in fact, give greater effectiveness to this form of supervision and compliance, in order to enforce the law, so that there is no one above the law for having more money or more litigation mechanisms and more legal remedies, which unfortunately does not occur in relation to the equality of arms that should exist in an economic activity. There should be equality of arms, there should be fair competition, there should not be this illegal competition which is calmly going through great propaganda operations and with the support of some political power that we had in the past. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u48	To reply, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u49	Mr President, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, first of all thanking you for your questions, I would like to understand what the PSD proposals are. It is that the PSD has been in the government and has had the protection of the matter. And what did you do about it? Zero! He left the theme floor, walk, and no working groups were created. And it is also curious to hear the PSD being against the modernization of the sector, saying that the modernization of the sector is to throw money into the problem. For now, it is not public money that is concerned, it is community money, money from the Portuguese Carbon Fund. However, modernizing the sector is obviously not to throw money into the problem, not solving it, it is to modernize the sector, because it is really a necessity. Mr Bruno Dias, the Socialist Party is obviously available for this debate. We cannot have laws that are not complied with, we cannot have laws that are not monitored and we cannot have laws that are not enforceable in compliance with them. So we are available for this debate and we will be here to find the best solution to solve this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u50	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not register. As a result, we are in a position, possibly, to announce the agenda for the next session. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, the Bureau recorded Mr Heitor Sousa's entry for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Uber does not follow the labour safety and market rules laid down by Portuguese legislation. In other words, Uber's problem is not the competition that makes conventional taxis, the problem is that it operates illegally in Portugal and the State cannot ignore this. The problem of competition between taxis and Uber is the consequence of the previous one. A company that does not comply with the rules is always making unfair competition to companies in the same sector that comply with them. The debate is therefore not about which is the best service, about who is here longer or about whether it is a sector that should or should not innovate; the debate is about the law. Complying with the law is the first requirement to make Uber. If it is met, it must be able to operate in Portugal. The law determines that light public passenger transport is subject to various rules, from the point of view of issuing permits for taxi operations per municipality. If Uber wants to operate in Lisbon, Porto or any other Portuguese city you will have to have their cars licensed in their respective authorities. We do not know that this rule creates problems with the entry of new light public passenger transport services, not because the issue of licences, such as targets, is an evil in itself — on the contrary, it is an important tool for planning and planning the territory and mobility policies — but because it has had a serious twist. in large cities, particularly in Lisbon and Porto, the cameras stopped issuing licenses for a long time. A parallel market for taxi licences was created in which taxi undertakings pass between themselves price licences, as a rule, above the prices to which the authorities issue them and, in this process, the anti-concentration rules imposed by public tenders are distorted, allowing a few operators to control the market, with injury to the workers, increasing their precariousness, and to the users. We defend that Uber cannot operate because it is illegal and we refuse to blackmail the liberalisation of transport, which may immediately seem attractive to consumers, but which, as in all the processes of liberalisation, from energy to communications, would also prove tragically penalizing, in time, for all. in the same way, we do not ignore that we can and should look at legislation and improve where it fails. We need to intervene in the taxi sector in order to introduce more transparency and more modernity in the transport service provided by industry professionals, drivers and entrepreneurs. This may mean, for example, ensuring more transparency in tariffs for each service performed and allowing more and better information to users on the routes used. We therefore put forward five proposals. First: that no company may carry out light passenger transport without a licence issued by the authority where it operates. We cannot continue to accept illegal practices, hiding them behind a computer application such as Uber or behind the designation of tourist operators such as tuk-tuk. Second, in order to ensure that all vehicles of the passenger public transport undertakings are subject to the same rules, be taxis, Uber or tuk-tuk, the authorities must reassess the number of licences they issue. The omission allows for a deregulation of the illegal but consented market, which is unacceptable. Third: if the taxi licence transpass market allows the concentration of operators that the public tender refuses, if it becomes opaque what should be transparent, it is necessary to act. We propose that taxi licences be returned to the authorities and that they launch new competitions whenever a company leaves to use them. Licences can't be taxi business, taxi business is passenger transport. Fourth: that no professional may exercise the profession of driver of passenger transport vehicle without a certificate of professional fitness to do so. Thursday : that the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ) inspects working conditions in the various light passenger transport undertakings, both those acting as taxis, or those operating as tourist transport, as is the case for tuk-tuks. The precariousness of workers in this sector is certainly one of their greatest problems. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u52	Mr Heitor Sousa, the Bureau records the entry of a Member of Parliament to request clarification. You then have the floor to Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u53	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa, I believe that in fact something is not going well with this majority supporting the Government, because on the one hand we have the Socialist Party full of doubts and with a desire to analyse, discuss and promote certain rules but to postpone and on the other hand we have the Communist Party that believes that the solution is to impose fines and increase them - and we have the Left Block that presents a set of proposals but it is noted - that it does not dialogue with the Socialist Party. PSD is an interclassist party and is a party that defends families, defends innovation and competition rules and defends law enforcement. For several months it has been stipulated that the law was not being complied with and therefore that this type of transport is illegal. For several months we have had a Government of the Socialist Party. So it is appropriate to ask: why does the Government of the Socialist Party not impose itself and does not enforce the law? This should be what the majority that supports the government should be asking the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u54	There are other questions: Uber, such as other platforms such as Booking, at the hotel, is the result of modernity and innovation. We are not against innovation, even because if innovation helps competition, if it allows more supply, if it allows better service for people, we defend that best service for people; we are against centralizing economies, unlike the Communist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u55	We defend free competition, but with rules. And we do not « put our head on the sand». If there is a lack of argument, if it is as the Socialist Party said recently, that the right is behind practice, that cannot exist. That is, if we have people capable of doing quality transport, if we have other people, who are the taxi drivers, who can also do so, we will have to create rules that are clear to all so that a citizen feels defended by them but is not deprived of the service that is placed upon him.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u56	So what's the PSD position?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u57	Therefore, Mr Heitor Sousa, more than ask you a question, I ask you to ask the Government why you have not monitored, why you have not acted and why the rules have not yet been changed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u58	To reply, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u59	Mr President, Mrs Fatima Ramos, I would like to begin by clarifying that in any parliamentary debate, all parliamentary groups can ask questions to the Government. [[PSD protests.]] Take it easy! The Government is not present today, but I suggest that the honourable Member ask you a written question exactly in the manner in which you put it to me. in this case, as you know, there is a regiment extension which requires a response within 30 days by the Government. Therefore, if you are so interested in the clarification of the Government, I would suggest that this second route, instead of raising up against a sort of ghost, in a debate in which the government is unfortunately not present. On the content of your questions, Mrs Fatima Ramos, I must begin by telling you that the time of irrevocability of decisions, the time of inflexibility of opinions and the time to'bury the head in the sand' in relation to all that was happening, invoking the primacy of the market, is over. For four and a half years this happened year after year and this new majority, for their information, makes the discussion clear at the place where it must be done, which is in the Assembly of the Republic and the Plenary. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This majority does not hide the fact that it is composed of three parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u60	Four!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u61	I'm sorry, for four parties. It was good to correct me, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares. in this discussion, the Left Block, like any other party, including the Socialist Party itself, may and should have opinions on matters in which it is necessary to improve the regulation and legislation existing in the sector. You have already heard from Members of all the banks, including yours, that it is necessary to promote this improvement of legislation in the sector. contrary to what happened in the discussion of the Budget, in which the PSD Members chose to have an ostensive attitude not to want to be part of this debate, we are here not only to present our proposals but also to listen with pleasure to what the PSD has to say on this matter. The PSD has been in government for four and a half years, along with the CDS, and now complains about the lack of regulation in the sector. But, Mrs Fatima Ramos, this accusation should have been made to the former Government. They had a lot of time to do it and, above all, they had a lot of time to present proposals that would improve the activity of the taxi sector in Portugal. Mrs Fatima Ramos, this question should have been addressed more recently to the Government which has supported and, with regard to the other questions you have raised, I hope that it will not fail to call whenever there is an opportunity here in this House to discuss such legislative and regulatory improvement that is necessary for the sector. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u62	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Portuguese Communist Party for this initiative. As mentioned in the title of the initiative under discussion, what is intended is to increase the sanctions of the current legal framework. however, this already provides for penalties, and the worsening of existing sanctions may not contribute to the resolution of this issue. It is essential that the concerns of the taxi sector be safeguarded as demands are made to them that pay for their activity and make it difficult to offer a competitive service. It is important to ensure that there is no unfair competition and protect workers and taxi manufacturers from activities that are illegal. However, it is also important to stress that it is not through the creation of obstacles that will make the best way to accommodate the innovation and the novelty of services that have been well received from the population. thus, it is suggested a change to the overall legislative framework so that both the taxi sector and other recent operators can be covered by the same legislative framework and thus all can operate on the market in a competitively fair manner and offer competitive and appealing services to their potential customers. Thousands of customers are available to accommodate the services of different operators as long as they are in full equality and circumstances. Let's go that way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u64	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The complexity of the issue under discussion in this Chamber well reveals the reality of an increasingly interconnected society available to embrace new trends in all areas of social life. This issue also shows, in an extremely striking way, the clash between traditional forms of economic activity — taxis — and innovative ways that break with what exists: the Uber platform. in a framework view of this issue, it is important to say that transport in passenger rental vehicles with drivers has a perfectly standardized and stabilized legal framework, being those subject to the licensing and emission of targets by the IMT (Instituto de Mobility e Do Transportes ) and subject to cabin licensing for each territorial district. I shall abstain from considerations relating to the history of opinions of public administration bodies, judgments of courts, judgments of the European Union's indefinitencies. Although all this has merit and value, it can take us away from reality: whether it is the transport service or the technology platform, the truth is that Uber exists; the truth is that Uber has customers; the truth is that Uber has market share; the truth is that taxi companies have seen their incomes decrease. The absence of a common European Union strategy gives even more urgency to the resolution of this issue. It is intolerable for Portugal that we continue to pursue a path of increasing violence, boycotts, aggression, at a time when we are increasingly dependent on tourism as a source of revenue and in which the perception of international agents is essential so that we can continue to grow. in this sense, we consider the statements made by the President of the Competition Authority, which emphasizes the contribution of these activities to economic growth and states that they should be the subject of a regulatory framework. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, competition is beneficial to consumers and they have favored those who are innovative and those who bet on service. To forget these facts is to forget the very essence of this problem. in this context in which we are faced with an innovative activity based on the use of new technologies, we cannot absolutely reject a discussion that frames this activity in the normal functioning of the economy and which simultaneously defends consumers through the choice of a set of rules and guarantees. Mr Bruno Dias, we cannot afford to contribute to the failure of taxi companies, which contribute, with their taxes, to the national economy, or to ignore the existence of an innovative solution which has gained market share and which has led to consumer approval. We must give evidence of democratic maturity and weighting, assessing the new modern and effective regulatory framework that defends the interests of all parties. This is the challenge we face. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u66	The honourable Member has three requests for clarification. You shall inform the Bureau, if you do so, of how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u67	I shall answer all together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u68	All right. Before passing the floor to Mr Fernando Jesus, I further inform the House that there is a delegation of the People's Republic of China in Tribune B, chaired by the Vice-President of the Advisory and Political Conference of the Chinese People, Mr Chen Xiaoguang. I suggest that we congratulate the Delegation of the People's Republic of China. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, stand up, and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u69	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Jesus.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Silva, the current government, at the end of six months, confronted with the problem of turbulence in the taxi sector, caused by the emergence in 2014 of the Uber company, to engage in illegal activity in the taxi sector, has already taken the following measures: it has met with all the associations of the sector; it has presented a package of measures—which has already been referred to today—for the modernisation of the taxi sector, proposing investment EUR 17 million in improving this service; it has established a working group with entities of the sector, including ANTRAL and the Portuguese Federation of Taxi, which has a period of 60 days to present to the Government a report with relevant measures for the public transport of passengers in light cars. Mr Carlos Silva, in this framework — and indeed, as you have just said, this problem must be covered by the general regulation of the taxi sector — do you not think that the Government that has recently supported has gone through a year and a half to put forward a solution, which he brings here today as a suggestion, 'by pushing the problem with the belly', without having solved it? Oh, my God! The question is this: how is it possible to accuse the Socialist Party that, at the end of six months, it has not solved a problem that comes back, at least since 2014 when the previous government was a year and a half without having done anything at all, so little met with the sector in question? Oh, my God! That is the question that I am leaving to the honourable Member and for which I would like to have a very clear and very concise answer, rather than walk here with diverse facts and accuse the PS and the current government of not doing anything, when, after all, it has done more than you did in six months than you did in a year and a half! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u71	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u72	Mr President, Mr Carlos Silva, with regard to the content of the speech that you have brought to this debate, we have listened very carefully to the honourable Member when referring to the economic idea and strategy, with which, in his view, the country should look at this problem, but I regret to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that his speech would have been out of date a year ago. If he had said in May 2015, what he said now would be out of date, because it would have been said after the courts to speak, after the authorities of the Portuguese State pronounced themselves, as if we had just come to a reality and you would say: "Neither this nor that, 'let us wash our hands', soon if we see...", which was exactly what the PSD/CDS government had said two, three years ago. Therefore, from this point of view, Mr Deputy's intervention is in the same place where the interventions of the PSD and CDS rulers were when the PCP began to raise this problem, which was not a year ago, not more or less...! The honourable Member has done an extraordinary exercise in this debate which has led even further to the acrobatic choreography that the PSD has been testing here, which was simply to disregard all the pronouncements of the official authorities of the Portuguese State and the Portuguese courts. You say: "Is that what you say, the court has a sentence? Oh, my God! It's worth it! Did the regulatory authority say that? Oh, my God! Okay! Let's go, let's see...». We cannot afford to do anything else, Mr President, nor can we contribute to the failure of taxi companies (they did not do anything else while they were in the government if they did not contribute to the failure of taxi companies, and of the other sectors, now... ), nor to ignore the concrete reality of this multinational company ( by chance it is not just that, another has appeared in the meantime.) But, then, let's discuss the law, because what we're discussing here is what to do with the law that's in force and how it's fulfilled, or not. I ask you to accept, or rather to say, the PSD continues to accept that there are entities, such as this multinational company with which you are disillusioned, who consider that they are above the law, that they say "this does not apply to us, we pay what is necessary, we go on, we continue with the operation" and you remain calm about it, they keep observing passively, as they did when they were in the government? It is very simple the question which the CFP is asking you, Mr President: do you continue to accept that the law is not the same for all? That's what I'm asking. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u73	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Heitor Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u74	Mr President, Mr Carlos Silva, your speech is, in fact, curious. On the basis of an idea, which is a sort of a brick, the so-called innovation in the taxi sector that Uber would have brought to the sector. Mr. Deputy, now in 2016 you may no longer be as innovative as that. It would have been an innovation, yes, in 2014 when Uber arrived and began operating. And, at that time, Mr Carlos Silva, either was either unattended or had not yet included, internalized, in his political lexicon, this idea of innovation, to beautify or, at least, to make the wrap a little more attractive.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u75	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u76	Mr Carlos Silva, innovation, innovation, is not a great technological advance. Innovation really produces results only if it can be applied and practiced by people in equal circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u77	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u78	And what Uber's service currently does is to remove legal spaces to an economic activity which is clearly regulated in the law and which needs to be respected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u79	To respond to the three requests for clarification, Mr Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u80	Mr President, I thought that I had requests for clarification, but what has just happened was a set of considerations regarding our very clear, thoughtful position and that it intends to bring value to this debate, that we believed to be quite important, even taking into account the issues I put here from the point of view of economic growth, tourism and also from the point of view of all the parties who have an interest in this matter. The Left Block classifies issues such as « beautify », « wrap up », i.e. aesthetic issues, adding them to a debate that is intended to be a debate with elevation. in fact, I have not been able to understand from the words of the honourable Member any request for clarification. I note, in your first speech, a set of measures which will be presented in your governance with the'management' and which we are available to discuss. Mr Bruno Dias, what the Communist Party has to bring to this debate is this and only this: to increase fines, fines. This is your way of acting. When any situation on the market needs to be pacified, fines are applied, repression is applied. It doesn't look like the Communist Party... [[Looks like, looks like!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u81	Indeed, it is through repression that all problems are solved. As for Mr Fernando Jesus, I would like to say the following: if this is a question of « belly», Mr, I would like to say to the Portuguese that only three months are left for a solution. It's just that you've been there six, there's three, and that's why we have nine months. [[PSD laughter.]] then, of course, this sector will have a solution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u82	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in fact, after these hours of debate it is not understood that there is so much cliché, because there can only be chrispation if there are different and diverse positions, there can be no cliché between those who have a clear position and those who have absolutely no position and sail here in a sea full of waves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u84	Is that a self-portrait?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u85	Portugal is a rule of law and, in a rule of law, there is only one absolutely essential primacy, that of full compliance with the law. This debate may arise out of time, in delay or anticipation, but it would never be out of time if it had been done in 2014. In 2014, when a new reality was found in Portugal consistent with new technologies and that the law did not achieve, it was important that this debate was held as important as it is today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u86	If it was in Socrates's time, then it was perfect...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u87	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the PS we are prepared to discuss these and other realities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u88	And solve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u89	It was in a PS government that an inclusive working group was created, with all those who want to provide the country with a new legal reality that corresponds to the ambitions of the populations and the taxi sector. This is because our aim is not to legislate in a gross way, nor to bring rhetoric here, is to create peace in an area that has been violated and violated by the previous government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u90	The taxi sector suffered too much with the right government, the passenger transport sector suffered too much with the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The taxi sector needs peace and this peace can only be brought about by a coherent response process to that sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u91	And when will that happen?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u92	It was the PS that called a set of entities to this House to help Members and parliamentary groups build a legal building that corresponds to their aspirations. It was a PS government that promoted a working group with all so that we can calmly tackle a problem that exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u93	So it's settled!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u94	It is the PS Parliamentary Group that comes to play on a proposal and on an initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party, which we accompany, because it is also necessary to have answers for this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u95	So you're going to vote in favour? Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u96	So I ask: what is the VV proposal? Ex.A.? What did you do? What's VV? Did they bring the sector, if not the crisis? Mr. President and Mr. Members, more than one responsibility before this House, before this House, the parties on the right, bearing the legacy of the previous government, must have answers to the sectors of economic activity outside. [[PSD protests.]] And they couldn't have it because you lack ideas, because you lack proposals and, above all, because you lack action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u97	Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is indeed no debate, even in form. The Communist Party allocated the debate in a positive way, i.e., it understood that it was the appropriate time for, regardless of the will of the Conference of Leaders and the other parliamentary groups, to come forward with a solution to this problem. So here we are all mobilized and we thought that, in fact, it would be so, that the Communist Party would bring the solution, that its partners had already met, with a group, or without a group, on the same subject and that the matter would be resolved today. After all, no! After all, it's not a big deal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u99	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u100	It is such a big face-to-face that has this result: unlike the people who are seeing us in the galleries and who are interested, because their life depends a lot on what is happening here and others are out there,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u102	... nobody will vote this, ladies and gentlemen, because the majority will not vote, they will not vote, they will not vote with the vote, they will not say whether it is'so' or if it is'swed', it is all a joke! They're pretending they're gonna solve the problem! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a parliamentary majority who pretends that he wants to solve the problems, that he comes here to discuss a matter without the presence of the government — because the government does not want to come, because he is not here because he does not want and if he does not want to go there because he has combined with you, this is the great reality — and so, once again, we will have a parliamentary majority diploma that supports this social-communist government that is not to be voted on, it is to join a lot of many others and perhaps one day goes out anything...! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, past this time of debate and exchange of arguments, what is needed, in fact, is that people assume themselves. You take it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Do not hide behind each other, do not invoke working groups. We all realize that the formula is the same: the government does not come, the PCP pretends it is opposition to the Left Block and the Socialist Party, realizes that that government does not exist and then no one decides, no one votes, no one pronounces! [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say again: do not hide behind each other anymore, especially cease to realize that they are not able. They are power, it is legitimate, they have more Members and do the favor of all Portuguese: stop joking, stop being careful and rule. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u103	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u104	Mr President, I begin by welcoming Mr Emídio Guerreiro to the debate and proposing that he begin now. It is clear that you are not debating the PCP bill and you have come to do a performance that would ask you to dispense, because we no longer need the performance of the Tuna Pandeireta and what we really need is that you pronounce yourself on the bill. So the question I ask you is if you read the PCP bill. [[PCP and PS applause.]] Sir, the first question is asked. The second question is what you think of the bill you read. This is because, at the moment, the question is whether there is anyone in Portugal who, in his opinion, may be above the law for having money. Can anyone in Portugal be above the law for having money, Mr. Member? Say there, if you please, what you think of the bill, that, of course, you read. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u105	To reply, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u106	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I begin by thanking you for your question and your energy—he touched you, I understand! Mr President, I have made considerations of the same nature as your colleagues. The Left Block came to talk about five proposals that have nothing to do with the project that you brought here. The Socialist Party came to talk about Simplex, came to talk about the weather, the rain, and it didn't say anything about it. It's a fantastic thing! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u107	Talk about the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u108	But Mr Bruno Dias is upset because I have done nothing more than expose your behavior. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u109	What about the project? There's nothing coming, nothing, nothing?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u110	Mr President, I have forgotten to mention something that I think is important for the debate: the Communist Party that puts the project to the vote and will see the behaviour of all Members. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u111	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor. I'm asking the ladies. Members who create conditions for you to make your speech and we can all hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make my speech in a Kantian spirit, either out of respect for the representatives of the sector who are present here, or in respect of the Socialist Party. It is that the Socialist Party, while believing in flying cows, will take some time to realize that this is an illusion and will finally have to rule and, on the day it wakes up to reality, it will perhaps be too late. But this is a problem of the Socialist Party...! Mrs. Members, we are always in favour of the rule of law, we are always in favour of compliance with the law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u114	... we are also in favour of nothing against which we can improve monitoring mechanisms, good competition culture, guarantee the various rights at stake and are even very sensitive to the protection of the weak, whether sectors or people. So there is no doubt about this and we are available to vote, to discuss in the specialty, to find consensus, to find solutions. This is our position in this debate. Nor do we look at innovation as a threat. We often see a chance in her. We must therefore do so with a sense of responsibility, with good sense and, of course, with balance. We are also very loyal to private initiative and freedom of installation. That was what was missing if we could not accept new business models, new ways of approach, which we could not be up to by the consumer, in an attempt to see better service, better quality, at a reasonable price and, of course, to create new management models, incorporate innovation and bring to the Portuguese economy some competitiveness. None of this separates us from the debate we have to do. Politics has the virtue of finding new answers to new problems and we are facing a new problem. What I said in my first speech was that, before we have a new problem, we have an old problem and we have to try to help solve it. by doing so we are guaranteeing a sector to which the law requires a set of tough and difficult conditions, quality of service, safety and consumer protection. Therefore, any new, legitimate business model that we want to be regulated should deserve a wide discussion. However, it was the Minister who first said that the new model which is presented is illegal and would have “zero” tolerance. And we say, then, that for the government to comply, within the State supervisory mechanisms, with what it has said and with which we agree, that is, if anyone does not comply with the law, it must be penalized. The Minister said something else: 'But we want to legalize'. And we say, 'Well, there's the government wanting to act' — something we can't see! — and I was hoping that the Socialist Party's Government would not use its traditional method of doing a mission unit, a working group... by chance, I forgot days ago to suggest to the Socialist Party that, in terms of tourism, it would do a mission group whose results would be 2050, because it was the guarantee that they would not spoil anything. As you were not going to move, we would all be rested on this matter. But on this subject, it is appropriate to do a little more. That is why, because this is a power debate, it is even a debate for which the Communist Party has repeatedly called us, with all the friendship of the saying, I was expecting the Communist Party and the Left Block, which also brings a set of proposals, once and for all they have taken advantage of being fundamental elements of the government, of being even those who guarantee it — and I did not want to use the word'management', although they are asking, but, if they like the term more, I will do them the desire to call'management' — and do something very simple: at such negotiating meetings, we do not know at what time, when or in which rooms they occur (I know that they do not gather all together), they can combine with the Socialist Party and help it. It is that what comes from the Government, either from the Minister or from the Secretary of State, is very contradictory: there are days when they are in favour of new technologies, such as Uber, and other days when they are against; there are those who are against the taxi sector and there are those who are in favour. The truth is that this discussion cannot continue like this, because the sector is waiting for solutions, and there will be a day when new technologies and new business models will enter them through the window inside and there is nothing to do. then, we will have two problems because if we do not control, if we do not anticipate, if we do not prevent and if we do not act, we will obviously not be proactive but start responding to problems. And when we answer problems, things become more difficult to solve. Therefore, do not create a working group, take advantage of the initiative of your partners, know-how of your partners, and resolve, present concrete solutions and proposals. on our part, we'll be here to discuss them. Yeah, there's a new regulation. Yes, there is a new response to new models, whether the tuk-tuk, whether the segway, or any other way that is entering us through urban mobility inside, which need a response at the local level, but also at the central government level. We are available to do this negotiation, as we are also available to discuss whether monitoring mechanisms need to be strengthened. What we cannot do is do something that the Socialist Party has done in this area: of course, take taxpayers' money to throw up a problem instead of solving it. I don't think it's the best way to solve the problem. The sector does not need any proposals or empty promises. The sector does not need promises from a financial package that comes out of the Portuguese taxpayer's purse and that does not benefit either the sector, consumers, initiative, innovation or so little in favour of what is the fundamental right of free installation and initiative. We have nothing against new business models, we are totally in favour of new business models. I would like to say that even I think there is some consensus between us, because the Portuguese Communist Party is also a little in favour of Uber or the new platforms. It is because in the project itself it presents does not make any critique, it even recognizes popularity to this new business model. It says, then, that it's just marketing, but it's a reduction in vision. It's more than marketing. What I would like to leave here is our total availability for, in a calm and calm manner, we will discuss the problem. Now, they don't ask us for VV. Ex. that we are ruling, because they have not yet understood, but they will have to realize, that even if they are waiting one day to see any flying object not identified with white spots, it does not fly, this reality does not exist, they will even have to govern, they will even have to make decisions. Please have proposals and we will be here to discuss them. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u115	If the Bureau is not denied by the initiative of the honourable Members. Members, there are no further requests for speech in the debate, except, of course, for Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP, to make an intervention at the end of the debate. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: at the end of the debate, I would like to give the honourable Members a last-minute news. Members of the PSD and the CDS. It is that, contrary to what was expected, technological development did not appear now, not even in 2014. And the new technologies that the gentlemen have left. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is something that has already happened in the taxi sector. What you are spreading with this dazzling in this debate and in the others is not a technology, it is a brand. And here's the problem. It is because you think that there are no platforms and new technologies in the taxi sector, except for the brand you're talking about, but the truth is that they think they're very wrong. Or, then, they do not think and deliberately lack the truth, which is worse. But we started from the principle that it was good faith that you brought this statement, dazzling with the new technologies, with the platforms, with the new methods of communication. Mrs. Members, there are technological platforms for the taxi sector for a long time in Portugal. The problem is that these platforms that I mean have run well, comply with the law, are linked to the taxi sector, are not linked to transport services that are outside the law, such as those in which Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they believe so much, and they like it so much. You could at least try to inform yourself of this discussion because technological platforms already existed before these multinationals arrived here. The problem is not technology, it is legal, it is whether we accept that there is someone who can, in violation of the law, take a dominant position on the market to impose its law, crush competition and subject passengers and users to totally abusive and scandalous conditions, as is already the case in several countries of Europe and the world. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is also a problem of competition, yes, sir, to such sacrosanct competition with which you fill your mouth so often. See that it is in such a way that even this multinational with which you are dazzled has hired — see the contracting of the time! — the former European Competition Commissioner to assist in the discussions. Because what you call innovation is, in particular, a company that dominates the market can practice the prices you want, when competition is priced, and increase, whenever you want, prices, as happened in London last year, in which the same multinational increased the tariff — 300 % — because on that day there was no metropolitan. Is that what you call innovation? What you call innovation is that there is no driver with professional certification or insurance for specific protection of passengers because it is not necessary and for competition it is necessary? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when they say that the new technologies are there and we have to look at them, it must be said that this was the attitude that you have had for three years: they have let go, let things go and get worse and worse. And now they want to continue! Let the situation go, let nothing be done: that is what you have defended in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u117	Put the diploma to the vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u118	We're sure the CDS and PSD understand what we're going to say. We do not need to come to the debate dressed in black, green or beige to assume a position, perhaps, of propaganda and affirmation of a particular cause of a given campaign. We have our consistent position.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u119	Put the diploma to the vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u120	We do not need allegories and performances, as some here have tried to test, because we in the CFP have a consistent position to say that the law has to be for everyone and that no one can be above the law, as we have been saying for a long time, even when you in the government did exactly the opposite. And just like the shocking discovery for the gentlemen. Members that new technologies have been here for a long time, there is also the shocking discovery for the honourable Members. Members that, after all, there is no parliamentary group on this side but four.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u121	Put the diploma to the vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u122	It's something you don't understand yet, but you'll understand. on our part, our position is constructive, it is serious, it is to contribute to solving the problems. We do not want to overrule any discussion, nor cancel any discussion, but we really want to have a concrete signal, the signal that has been missing in the government and in the previous majority, and that must be given by the political power, a concrete sign of decision to solve a problem, without prejudice to giving answers that are already on the agenda with these, yes, technologies used by that brand that you so much like and that call into question, for example, the anonymity of the user, who deny the freedom to guarantee his privacy, being on the database complete information about his travels, associated with a number of credit cards and a personal data. in this you have never noticed and with this you have never cared. This is what we're talking about when you talk about innovation. We defend, above all, the legality, the privacy of citizens, the protection of personal data, the regulation of the market, that there is no inequality and discrimination favorable or unfavorable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u123	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u124	I will finish, Mr. President. We defend that the law is the same for all. That is the meaning of our proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u125	Put the diploma to the vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-25.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing else to be done for today. I should therefore like to inform you that the next plenary session will be Friday beginning at 10 a.m. on the agenda of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a) ). the Rules of Procedure. The proposals of lein. 17 / XIII ( 1 ) are also scheduled without discussion time. ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November, corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 4 / 2006 of 16 January, and amended by Laws No 78 / 2013 of 21 November, and 34 / 2014 of 19 June, establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAM ) and 19 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In defence of family agriculture in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ). Both proposals will be voted on during the voting period. Finally, we shall have the time to vote on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 3 minutes.]]
