ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. Our work today is, as you know, quite long and challenging. I recall that from this point on, they can vote in elections for independent external entities, specifically for the election of five judges for the Constitutional Court, the President of the Economic and Social Council, for votes for the Supreme Council of the Magistracy and for members for the Supervisory Body of the Secret of State. We will open today's debate with the appreciation of the Ombudsman's 2015 Annual Report, but I will first give the floor to Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, in order to be able to announce a set of initiatives that have entered the Bureau in recent days. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: motions for resolutions Nos 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement for the Creation and Status of the European Public Law Organisation, signed in Athens on 27 October 2004 which falls to 2. the Commission, and 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves Protocol No 12 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, open for signature in Rome on 4 November 2000, which falls to 2. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 280 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Reduce the VAT rate applicable to pet food products for the intermediate rate ( PAN ), 282 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the bases for the organisation, management and operation of baldiums ( PS ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 283 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Pedrouços and Rio Tinto of the municipalities of Maia and Gondomar ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 284 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial boundaries of the parish of Santa and Rio Tinto of the municipalities of Maia and Gondomar ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 285 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Freguesia de Penhalonga and Paços de Gaiolo, in the municipality of Marco de Canaveses, to Freguesia de Penha Longa and Paços de Gaiolo ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 286 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrate the Andante, intermodal social pass of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, as a title in all collective passenger transports and update the geographical scope of the respective zone ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 287 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents institutional support for performances that cause physical or psychic suffering or cause animal death ( BE) and 288 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents public financing for Tauromachic shows ( The Greens ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 429 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It proposes the modification of the mobility mechanism procedures due to disease and the conversion of the educational component into non-lethal without worsening the hours of childhood educators and teachers of basic and secondary education ( CFP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 430 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement free access to national museums and monuments for young people up to 30 years of age during weekends and holidays ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 431 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defends the exploitation of the Alentejo railway line and the promotion of rail mobility in the Beja district ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 432 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the Lisbon Commercial Ateneum in order to continue its intended purpose ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 433 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support cherry ( PS ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 434 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In defense of the improvement of health care in the Coimbra district and the reversal of the merger process of CHUC hospitals ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 435 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — An integrated strategy for wine experimentation, research and innovation in the Demarcada do Douro Region ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 436 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government accompany the implementation process of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 437 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent work in the emergency services of Our Lady of Oliveira Hospital in Guimarães ( CDS-PP ), 438 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — It proposes a transitional scheme for the retirement of teachers and educators with a view to creating justice in the retirement scheme ( The Greens ), 439 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By conditions of service and decent work at the emergency service of the hospital of Guimarães ( The Greens), 440 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the continuation of the wager in health care in the Santarém district ( CDS-PP ), 441 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the possibility of retirement to 40 years of discounts without penalties and the application of retirement schemes relating to specific situations ( CFP ), 442 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By improving the provision of health care in Lezíria do Tejo ( PCP ), 443 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — By valuing and strengthening health care in the Hospital da Senhora da Oliveira, Guimarães ( PCP ), 444 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevent the destruction of IP Engineering, defend and promote national railway engineering ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 445 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a survey on the use of animal traction vehicles and consequent regulation ( PAN ), 446 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of resources at the hospital in Santarém and its primary health care network ( BE), 447 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the reduction of the VAT rate on pet food products with a view to including this reduction in the State budget for 2017 ( BE) and 448 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recovery of the Ateneu Commercial de Lisboa ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to move to the second point of our agenda. I recall that voting in elections for independent external entities ends at 16 hours because the results still have to be presented today in order to be published tomorrow and still be taken possession this week. I therefore ask everyone not to postpone the exercise of that right for a long time. Let us then begin the assessment of the Ombudsman's 2015 Annual Report. For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Annual Activity Report of the Ombudsman on 2015 mirrors the activity carried out by this relevant independent body within the framework of Article 23. the Constitution. The constitutional inclusion of the Ombudsman in the general part of fundamental rights clearly shows that he is, essentially, a body guaranteeing fundamental rights before the public authorities in general, and before the Administration in particular, but is also a body guaranteeing the Constitution. The report presents a year of intense activity, which resulted from the 40 years of the existence of the Ombudsman, legally established on 21 April 1975, an institution that was able to update, modernize and, above all, be a source of credibility, national and international prestige. I have also heard Provedoria as a guarantor of trust, and we all know the importance of trust today, for the citizens and for the weaving of democracy. I therefore welcome on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, the current Provider, Dr. Faria Costa, and all those who have preceded him over four decades and have known « being what matters » in the meaning of António Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u6	As pointed out in Mr.Provedor's initial message, the year 2015 was guided by numerous armed conflicts and millions of human dramas, whose solutions go through a global reflection and response, asking us to do more, much more, on human rights. As the UN has warned, only by eliminating causes can the effects be desired. Indeed, development is the new name of peace. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 2015 Report reveals to us a set of indicators of activity that must be identified and which reflects an interesting dynamic: 7335 procedures were opened, of which 4808 were received by electronic means, revealing a growing use of new technologies; the total number of complainants was 7329 ; a total of 3536 procedures were pending on 31 December 2015, a number which, we know, concerns the Ombudsman and which has been difficult to reverse; the most common issues in the procedures were questions relating to social security, taxation, public employment relationship and the administration of justice. Social rights were those that most often brought together complaints to the Provider ( 22, 3 % of the open procedures ). The alarming and recurring signal continues to be the time and hours of work and the successive refusals of continuous and flexible schedules in the administration, in flagrant contradiction with the necessary reconciliation between professional and family life, which, in addition to constitutional law, constitutes a priority area in the area of gender equality both in the European Union and in the Portuguese State. It is also worth highlighting the Ombudsman's recommendation on the rationalization of effectives, addressed to the Institute of Social Security, which has not been complied with but has been taken up and resolved in a positive way, for the benefit of the workers affected, by the current government. As regards complaints aimed at authorities, there has been a reduction in relative and absolute terms. We are pleased to note as positive the qualitative increase in the percentage of cases in which it was concluded by repairing the illegality or injustice verified. The duty of cooperation and the 50 % acceptance of recommendations also reveal the institution's consolidated credibility. of the 7335 procedures opened in 2015, by the Ombudsman, 1012 respect the right to justice and security and within these, 411 fall on judicial delays and 226 on road matters — a clear sign of what is still to be done in terms of agility and judicial speed, for which this government is fully mobilized. It is also necessary to mention the activity developed by the relevant Child, Elderly and People with Disabilities and, in particular, by the very useful telephone lines of the child, the elderly citizen and the disabled citizen. In 2015, 4157 telephone calls were received divided by these three lines, many of which were neglected and ill-treatment. Regarding the assessment of constitutionality, it was the Ombudsman's understanding that in none of the cases that were assessed in 2015 were grounds for the formalization of the application for constitutionality supervision, but also in 2015, three important judgments of the Constitutional Court were published, two of which were decided on the basis of the request. in these terms, the judgment No 141 / 2015 declared the unconstitutionality of restrictive norm regarding access to social income of residents in Portugal and the judgment No 494 / 2015 declared the unconstitutionality of Article 364. that of the General Law on Public Works, insofar as it was granted legitimacy to the members of the Government responsible for the area of finance and public administration to conclude and sign agreements of public employer, within the framework of the territorial administration, for violating the principle of local autonomy. Fortunately, this situation has been healed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u7	You've exceeded the time you had, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u8	I will finish immediately, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u9	Today we must be particularly orthodox in the matter of times.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u10	Finally, I would also like to highlight the important role that Provedoria plays as a National Prevention Mechanism ( NPM ) within the framework of the Protocol on Torture and Cruel Treatment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, we hope that the Provedoria will continue on the path of defending the legality of the Administration and acting in the prevention and repair of injustices, making jus of its informal, direct and close nature, because « it is not enough to hear only outside, it is necessary to understand from within». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u11	Mr José Silvano, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the rapporteur of this 2015 Annual Report by the Ombudsman, Mrs Susana Amador, for the quality and detailed description of the activities of the Province in 2015. I also wanted to greet Mr.Provedor and Providence for the excellent work done during the year 2015, especially because of its quality and excellent results achieved. Acting in the defence of the fundamental rights of citizens against public authorities is always a noble activity, an activity that must be done with effort, work and dedication and that is how it was done throughout the entire activity of this Provider, particularly in 2015. We can state that the Activity Report, of which 198 pages and two annexes, has a set of activities whose main parts need to be highlighted. First of all, I distinguish the 40 years of Provedoria, celebrated in 2015. It is worth noting that, as the Provider is always a flag of freedom, 40 years of democracy with Provedoria to function is a clear sign of the deepening of democracy, and that must be celebrated, this must be celebrated. For this reason, 40 years are part of this report and I welcome these celebrations. Secondly, there were fewer procedures (14 %) and fewer complaints(24 %) and it is important to know why. Mr. Provider was very clear in an interview he gave to the Journal of Business a short time ago: « Getting out of there is not the best way to defend citizens ». The best way to defend citizens is in an informal act of direct relationship with the Administration and with the public authorities, trying to solve the specific, specific and timely problems of citizens. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u13	Therefore, the reduction of complaints and procedures is also due to this form of action by Mr Ombudsman and the Ombudsman, to which we agree. I would also like to say that the complaints focused primarily on social security, public labour relations and the administration of justice. in this specific area of 1. the Commission, more than a thousand procedures and complaints were about delays in justice, and it is important to consider that these delays affect not only the rights of citizens but also the economy of the country. Thus, the recommendation made by Mr.Provedor to Mr. Minister of Internal Administration that the complaints submitted may have evidence of the complaints submitted to the GNR and to the PSP was followed by Mrs. Minister, which is important to highlight at this time. The activity of Mr.Provedor as a national prevention mechanism should also be emphasized in this area. We must not fail to mention in particular its work on children's rights. We want to empower this intervention by Mr Provedor. Mr. Provider and Providence acted not only on children through complaints, but through a direct relationship close to the child's core. It is important to mention the legislative amendment that took place in 2013, which allows an assistant provider to have the rights of children in its dependence, giving a more effective, more concrete and more technical response to this problem of the child.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u15	Another of the important situations is — we should say it quite clearly — the fact that Mr.Provedor has represented the country in the international conventions of suppliers, in particular at the CPLP ( Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ), where he helps the supplies of Portuguese-speaking countries and the noble work he has done on this matter. Mr President, I conclude by referring to the following : at a hearing in 1. the Commission, Mr Provedor said he needed some technical means for this function as a national prevention mechanism. Well, we need to be aware of this situation because expectations are increasing. The number of complaints and procedures decreased, but it should be noted that expectations even increased in 2015, which, together with previous years, should be a sign of concern for the effectiveness of the work of the Ombudsman. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u16	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss another annual activity report by the Ombudsman in the specific case concerning the activity carried out by Mr.Provedor in 2015, a constitutionally consecrated, independent and unipersonal body. One more of the pillars of our robust democracy, and that is why it has a duty to account here, precisely the symbol and faithful of our democracy. On the contrary, this report not only mirrors the Ombudsman's role as a guarantor of the exercise of the fundamental rights of citizens, but also makes clear, and very well, the fragility, problems, the needs of the public authorities, allowing them to act to correct what is wrong or not right. More: it gives visibility to the activity of the Provider and thus extends his potential for intervention and knowledge of his activity. This said, I would like to detail and highlight some important aspects that emerge from the said Report and start with the end, emphasizing the performance of the Provider as a national prevention mechanism. This national prevention mechanism was established by the PSD/CDS Government in the previous legislation, and its results can only be seen in 2015 for the first time. in this clothing, the Provider shall periodically, and without notice, make visits to restrictive places of freedom, issuing recommendations and presenting proposals regarding existing legislation or legislative projects on the subject. Very important matter that by 2013 it was relegated to the second plane, especially if we take into account that so many times what is at stake are fundamental rights of particularly vulnerable people. In this regard, last year, the number of actions increased exponentially and had repercussions, on the one hand, on the conditions under which the visas are admitted, at the level of the facilities and health measures, for example, and on the level of working conditions of those who perform their duties every day in those places. I would therefore like to emphasise the deferral of the national preventive mechanism to the Ombudsman and to vote so that the conductor of this process is not lost. I would like to point out, then, that the most interventional and practical philosophy of Mr Provedor's work, which, rather than, as it has often been practiced, produces numerous recommendations, which often result in very little, has really resolved to intervene and, indeed, to try to solve people's problems. I would like to point out the fact that perhaps most impressive in this report: a significant decrease in the number of complaints recorded in 2015, that is 14 % compared to previous years, a decrease that is all the less dispensation and that it is further proof that 2015 was marked as Portugal's recovery year, the year in which the serious crisis that struck us in 2011 began to strike, after a rescue that the Portuguese paid hard penalties but that they managed to leave in a clean and transparent way, partially and gradually recovering what they lost.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u19	This is reflected in the figures in this report: complaints about fundamental rights issues of citizens have decreased by almost 15%. , noting the difficult recovery of Portuguese incomes, which began to take place in that year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u21	Of course, we also realize that "there is no beauty without exception" and that there are areas such as the social security system, taxation, public employment or the administration of justice, which, in addition to the applicants, which are serious, point to a very small decrease, and which call for greater attention from public authorities in order to block these types of complaints, which are still high and frequent. Mr President, I would also like to note the sharp fall in complaints under consumer law. At the hearing we held in 1. the Commission, we have questioned Mr Provedor on this matter, who said on that day that this reduction in the number of complaints under consumer law can cause the assumption that alternative mechanisms for resolving consumer conflicts are finally working. In 2013, the former Government changed a number of measures relating to the resolution of consumer conflicts, which appears to have worked to the extent that there are now fewer complaints. Finally, I would like to say that what is expected for the coming years is that the activity of the Ombudsman continues to produce results and that this reflects on numbers and, logically, on safeguarding citizens' rights. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u22	Mr José Manuel Pureza, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In accordance with Article 23. that of our Constitution, the Ombudsman receives complaints from citizens by actions and omissions from public authorities and directs those who are entitled to the recommendations necessary to prevent and remedy injustices. It is therefore a noble and crucial function of a democracy that is effectively a friend of rights and a friend of effective rights. The country that is mirrored in the 2015 Report of the Ombudsman is both a country with immense weaknesses in the effectiveness of the rights of the most fragile as it is a country of diverse commitments in the daily conquest of this effectiveness. And as a portrait of the country of rights and the lack of rights, this report is an important service to democracy designed by the Constitution and is also a warning to all those responsible for public authorities. I would like to mention some of the most important references, from our point of view, of this report, starting with the fact that the themes where, more strongly, the complaints have affected throughout 2015 have been social security, taxation, the public employment relationship and the administration of justice. I also want to mention the activity of the Child, Elderly and People with Disabilities ( N-CID ), with 4157 contacts, which, thematically, are of enormous symbolism to portray the country that was Portugal in 2015. With regard to the child, the most referred questions were parental responsibilities, neglect and ill-treatment and exposure to domestic violence. With regard to older people, it was isolation and loneliness, access to public services, particularly the National Network of Continued Care or the transport of patients. With regard to persons with disabilities, the most referred issue was compliance with social benefits legislation and family obligations and rights. In all these cases, in all this activity is a country in which the distance between the rights enshrined in the law and the institutional, cultural and social denial of fundamental rights is one of the greatest marks of the daily life of so many people in Portugal. To show, therefore, that the law is only a part, and often not the most important part, of the effective realization of fundamental rights. In view of this report, in view of the portrait he gives us of the country, the question we have to put here, as representatives of the people, is to know which are the answers that are within our reach and which oblige us as Members and Members. I believe, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have a response arising from the report itself: the need to prevent the most critical behaviour of denial of fundamental rights by the State itself, and that is what the action of the national prevention mechanism, which is also the Ombudsman, is included under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture. Fifty unannounced visits carried out in 2015 to institutions such as educational centres, psychiatric hospitals, prisons or temporary installation centres show how it is possible and desirable to strictly monitor on behalf of human rights. But there is another answer — and with this I conclude, Mr President — which must come from this House's newspaper: to make this House of the Republic a partner in the demand of a culture of human rights, always dissatisfied with what it is, always dissatisfied with the law that exists. The assessment of this Report can only be a moment of awareness of this culture. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u24	Mr António Filipe has the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all we welcome the Ombudsman for the quality and completeness of the Report presented to the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2015. It is, of course, important to highlight in this report the quality of the data and the assessment that is made with regard to them and also the diversification of intervention areas that have been carried out by the Ombudsman, in order to achieve the most vulnerable social layers, especially at the level of the elderly, children, victims of crime and the imprisoned population. Therefore, at the time of the evaluation of the report, it should be stressed that the Ombudsman, as a national human rights institution, has taken action that prestigious the office and the Republic. This discussion was preceded, in fact, by a more exhaustive and extraordinarily interesting discussion, in 1. the Commission, where it was possible to detail aspects which are obviously not comportable in the space of a debate in plenary. In any case, we would like to highlight some aspects of the Ombudsman's report. First, the fundamental focus of registered complaints remains central administration. I would like to point out that, at the level of the local Portuguese administration, there is a decrease in the number of complaints to the Ombudsman and this number is incomparably lower than that recorded than the central government. We can say that this, in a way, is natural, because the exercise of power and the proximity of citizens makes it easier to solve the problems. In any case, a factor with which we should be pleased is the fact that, with the hundreds of municipalities and thousands of parish, there are a number of complaints in a significantly reduced number, compared to what is happening with the central administration. at the level of central administration, there are elements of concern. The fact that we know that the areas of the Public Administration that are the subject of more complaints to the Ombudsman are tax administration and social security, which are very sensitive from the social point of view and which obviously have a lot to do with the incomes available from families is a matter of concern. The means of defence of citizens, particularly citizens of lower resources, in the face of social security and particularly tax administration, should also be a reflection to determine whether citizens are reasonably defended, in legal terms, in the face of possible abuses committed by the tax administration. This is an aspect that implies some reflection. The high number of complaints in respect of these two sectors of the Public Administration would justify special attention by this House. I would also like to mention the merit of the Ombudsman's intervention in relation to the supervision of constitutionality, with significant results. Finally, Mr President, I would like to refer to the reply of the Assembly of the Republic to the recommendations of the Ombudsman specifically addressed to this House. That is where we need to improve significantly, Mr. President. The Assembly of the Republic cannot require the other entities to respond in a timely manner to the Ombudsman's recommendations and then take into account that these recommendations do not exist in relation to it. We know that the issue is not easy. For 2015, there is a recommendation from the Supplier to the Assembly to solve a difficult problem that has to do with the ability to subscribe to architectural projects. We know that the realization of the political will of the Assembly of the Republic is complex because it involves the conciliation of different opinions and the conjugation of positions of the various political forces that matter to clear up, but we cannot turn our back on the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u26	I ask you to conclude. Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u27	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. We will have to consider in the next year's report two recommendations already made in 2016, one related to the legislative omission in relation to resident associations, fulfilling what is stated in the Constitution in that regard. We will actually have to look at this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u28	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u29	Finally, there is a problem that has been solved: Mr Provedor made a recommendation to the House on the issue of the obligation to issue certificates of criminal registration and we have an idea that the Government has already found a way of, administratively, solving this problem, which is a factor that needs to be stressed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u30	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, exhausted from the second point of view of our agenda, we move on to the following point, which consists in the evaluation of the Annual Report on Internal Security ( RASI ). To speak on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u31	Mr. President, Ex.mos Mrs and Mrs. Members: Today we are discussing, in plenary, the Annual Report on Internal Security for the year 2015 which was also discussed last April in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. This is a report on the responsibility of the Secretary-General for Internal Security and, in the end, compiles all the criminal data involved in all criminal police bodies and not only those who directly protect them. Having made this previous point, I would like to take a brief look at this report. Compared to 2014, there was a slight increase of 1, 3 % in all the crime involved and this is due, in my opinion, to three factors. Firstly, there has been a very significant increase of more than 100 % of the crime relating to forest fires. Secondly, in the 2015 RASI, a new type of crimes that had not been accounted for before have also been recorded, namely crimes against animals such as abuse and abandonment of pets, which are responsible for 1456 participations. Finally, there was also a very significant increase in those crimes associated with police proactiveity. I am referring to road crimes, with an increase of more than 10 % in alcohol driving with more than 1, 2 mg/l, or a very significant increase in driving crime without legal authorization. The increase in drug-related crimes could also be associated with greater police proactiveity. Thus, if we discount these types of crimes — of forest fire, new typologies or resulting from police proactivity — we find that, despite all, there was not such a significant increase in the overall crime involved. However, the trend towards the decline of serious and violent crime, which generates a greater sense of insecurity, particularly in crimes against people, with a decline of 2, 3 %, or in crimes against heritage, with less than 3, 1 %, compared to 2014. In particular, I should like to highlight a certain type of crime which in fact generates a great feeling of insecurity, such as thefts in residence with less than 21 %, thefts in commercial buildings with less than 13 %, thefts in vehicles with less than 12 %, thefts in vehicles with less than 9 %, or thefts in residences with less than 7 %. Domestic violence continues to be a phenomenon that we have followed with particular attention and also saw a slight decrease in the number of participations, of 2, 6 %. Therefore, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would stay here until I have time to be able to answer some questions that you have to answer. Ladies and gentlemen want to put me in. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u32	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão spoke on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u33	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Under the Internal Security Act, the Assembly of the Republic considers — 'appreciate' is the term used in the Law — the report on the situation of the country in the field of internal security. Reporting on 2015, this report is due to one year, whose political responsibility is generally 11 / 12 lawyers of another government, of other ministers of the Internal Administration. However, when in 2011 Minister Miguel Macedo, for the first time in this plenary, also presented an annual internal security report on the responsibility of a previous government, on which Mr Macedo spoke, and I quote that the same « presented overall positive results with a decrease in crime ». Now, today, the Minister of Internal Administration presents an RASI on which we can, in essence, say something similar, i.e. the results are globally positive, and we also welcome this. It is good to keep in mind — and I think all the Members and all the Members. Members have it that, when we consider an annual internal security report, we appreciate the outcome of conduct or events that have suffered damage or victims and, as such, each crime, each road accident, each disaster has so often constituted a personal drama and, therefore, in this quality, cannot be scaled or devalued. We do not ignore him and fear him. However, this does not prevent us from welcoming the overall results and concluding with satisfaction that Portugal was and is still a safe country. We do so all the more that, it is good to remember, the Constitution advocates in its article 27. the, which all have the right to freedom and security, meaning a relationship between both non-anti-nomical values, but, on the contrary, complement, in the sense that security is a factor and guarantees freedom and that no one will truly be free if he does not feel safe. Portugal is therefore a free and safe country. Seriously, we should reflect that statistics recommend a weighting, as a rule, for decades, and therefore we can say that general crime is tendingly decreasing and violent crime as well. As the Minister pointed out — and I also wanted to start there — despite the general crime having presented a 1, 3 % inflexion, in fact, a more fine analysis allows us to conclude that general crime has also tended to decrease. In fact, general crime has risen because it had 4721 participations; however, of these 4721 participations, 1330 participations could not exist in the past year, because we are talking about phenomena of neo-criminalization and, therefore, the homologous comparison is not possible — fatally, new crimes would translate-CL into new participations, but also because fire crimes have multiplied to more than double, with more than 5145 participations, and it is certain that, having presented the highest value of the last 10 years, it remained, however, below the average of these last few years. I would like to mention, because it is important in this fatally general analysis that we make, that Lisbon, Porto and Setúbal contribute 73% of the serious crime, which will obviously not fail to reflect on the planning of the country's security. We must also point out — in fact, corresponding to my statement, from the point of view of general crime, about these numbers, which cannot fail to be stimulating — which, by constituting the crime of theft the greatest aggregate of crimes, he continued to descend, thus confirming what I was referring to. Mrs. Minister, at voil d’ oiseau, mentioned some variations and I am convinced that also Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen who will intervene will not stop doing so. Therefore, in order to comply with the recommendation of the President of the House and in anticipation of the request which he will not fail to do, I would like to conclude, because I believe that it is entirely fair to do so - with a compliment, which is due, to the men and women who have made their best of themselves in the security forces for the benefit of the community. It is to them, above all, that we owe a free and safe country. They are therefore believers of our recognition, and that is what I gladly do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u34	For an intervention, Mr Fernando Negrão speaks on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the presence of the government, which always has meaning. Today, we have the presence of Mr. Minister of Internal Administration and Mr. Secretary of State of Internal Administration, who meets and Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, who has always been from the House. But that meaning is interesting for one reason: the protection of the internal security system and the role of the secretary-general of the internal security system is that of the Prime Minister — he has not delegated it to any of the Members. Ministers or Ministers — and today we have someone to protect some of the security forces. I would like to ask you this question, Minister : why is the Minister of Justice not present here, who protects another part of the security forces? As regards the report itself, a lot has been said and the main thing was that the trend of crime in Portugal is falling. It was in 2012, in 2013, particularly difficult years, and it was also in 2015, mainly (and that is where we should focus) on organized crime and violent crime, which is very important because it gives us what is a good that our country, which is that of Portugal being a safe country, is a secure destination for those who visit the country. Portugal is really one of the safest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u36	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u37	in this measure, we must thank the security forces. We must thank the Judicial Police for their work in investigating the punishment of the most serious crime, organized crime, including terrorism and associated crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u39	We must thank the PSP ( Public Security Police ), the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ), the National Maritime Authority for all the work they do not only in the maintenance of public order, but also in the investigation of small and medium-sized crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u41	And we must thank the system for coordinating the police, for the exchange of information and for the lack of coordination problems between the police. Congratulations to the security forces! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs Minister, I would like to make three suggestions regarding the Internal Security Report. We need to start dealing with issues in the internal security reports and there are three that seem important to me. The first one has to do with the children. Once and for all, Portugal has to know how many children have disappeared every year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u43	We do not have this information today. I know this is not a topic that consists of our laws or codes, but internal security has to look for the number of missing children and reflect it in your report. Another issue has to do with domestic violence. We need to resume the empowerment of the conjugal murder crime, because only knowing the number of existing marital homicide crimes is that we can have adjusted and appropriate policies to combat this phenomenon. The last point has to do with road safety. We need to have more precise data to understand the phenomena that lead to road problems, such as accidents, in addition to the connection to other crimes, including fire crimes. Whether in December or August, we continue to see drivers lying on the street, through the window of their cars, the blessed lights. Mrs. Minister, I would like to point out two concerns. One, it has to do with terrorism. Finally, we're going to have the Single Point of Contact, and that's to say hello. Let us hope that at the end of the year the Single Point of Contact will work. The other concern has to do with the national present. in this Assembly of the Republic, measures were adopted to create a new type of crime, crimes against the ill-treatment of pets. in this Assembly of the Republic, measures have been adopted to strengthen the penalties against animal abuse. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD and CDS-PP benches presented an initiative to criminalize the abandonment of the elderly. We all know that elderly people are daily abandoned in Portugal, whether in their homes or in other places, and, to our surprise, this initiative was plunged by the parties that govern Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, I shall finish by saying to the honourable Members. Members of the PS, the PCP and the Left Block who, when it comes to these crimes, you want to take this path, will certainly do so alone...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u44	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u45	... because the Portuguese do not agree in any way with your lead regarding the criminalization of the abandonment of the elderly. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u46	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u47	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am not going to look into RASI numbers and statistics, since we have already had the opportunity to do so within the Commission. I would like to note some concerns about this report. The first has to do with the methodology of data collection, analysis and presentation. In addition to the changes verified year after year, what makes it difficult and, in some cases, impossible to compare, this year we have other changes, some small, some larger, some detail, but that still do not help to read and interpret the data. It is a detailed change, but this year the lines or columns of the totals have been deleted in several tables, without much understanding why. For example, in the table on « Violent and serious crimes », page 33, in the table on « Large criminal categories », page 21, and this remains a little over the whole document. Another novelty of the 2015 Internal Security Report has to do with the presentation of data disaggregated by criminal types, in addition to the already usual global records. The manner in which these disaggregated data are presented does not, unfortunately, add to the first objective of presenting the disaggregated data, particularly relevant information. The data doesn't beat right and we don't know exactly how many we're going. For example, « Global data » accounts for a 2, 2 % decrease in domestic violence participations in 2014. We moved from 22 965 participations in 2014 to 22 469 in 2015 (a decrease) and that's good. However, the data disaggregated, for example, by criminal type, give us, as regards « domestic violence», a value of 26,595 shares. These are different numbers that do not help to clarify the situation. We just don't know how many we're going through. The second note, which follows from the first one, has to do with the objective and efficiency of RASI. If it is true that the report provides us with a global overview of crime in the country, this global vision is not sufficient to inform the policies and measures to intervene, combat and, above all, to prevent crime. The integrated analysis that the disaggregated data make possible would be precisely one of the most valuable of this report, which unfortunately does not happen. For example, we are talking about the variation of domestic violence, the sex of the victims and the reported, the ages by steps, but, in fact, everything in a global way. We could not understand the type of relationship by age, nor the relationship with the aggressors. We don't know if these victims have children, how many and how old. We do not know, as far as homicides are concerned, how many of these children have been orphaned. As far as children are concerned — and I cannot but point out how worrying this note is — the increase in the crime of abuse or the burden of minors. Again, we only removed the information from this increase, but we could not remove any more finer data, such as victim age, relationship with aggressors, place of residence or education. As regards other types of crimes, the number of missing children, crimes for sexual abuse and child pornography has already been mentioned here. We have information about the aggressors, but we have nothing about the victims, such as age, sex, relationship with the detainees, education, fraternal and, above all, how many. These data are absolutely essential not only for combating but also, especially, for preventing such crimes. Crossing with data from justice would therefore be crucial for systematic and integrated intervention in these areas. And this brings me to a final note that I want to highlight. In the nearly 40 prevention and police programmes currently in existence, there is not even one that aims precisely to prevent crimes against children, especially those that usually occur within the family. They continue to bet on the creation of emergency response mechanisms and neglect prevention mechanisms. In protecting children, women or any other category with special vulnerability, it is important to ensure protection, but, above all, to invest in prevention and in primary responses up to the emergency. For example, CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth) are entities that act after all other entities with child and youth responsibilities fail or shelters, not neglecting or, of course, diminishing their importance, are, in fact, emergency responses and not upstream responses, primary responses.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u48	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u49	I shall now conclude, Mr President. These notes apply to most of the crime involved, and I would therefore like to leave this concern which calls for me the lack of commitment and investment in primary responses and the means of prevention, and, with more finer and more disaggregated databases and, even with data from justice, would enable me to develop these policies and measures much better. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u50	For an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and Mrs. Secretary of State : By going directly to the report, without losing ourselves in other lateral debates around internal security matters, I would say that this report allows us to do essentially, from our point of view, three types of analysis. First of all, the overall evolution of crime, as is evident, because that is what the report tells us more about. Secondly, a more focused analysis of specific types of crime. Thirdly, it helps us to think a little strategically, depending on what we have, about what must be done in the future. And that is where we, CDS-PP, will be in terms of this report. The first point to make is that this report, once again, shows that the many catastropheists we heard in this House, and not only, had no reason whatsoever.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u53	That is, I remember four or five years ago some Srs. Members, here and out of here, say: "Well, in the circumstances in which we meet, with the Memorandum, with the economic and social crisis, what we are going to have is a crime as we have never seen. Numbers to shoot... ” Finally, it would be the same misfortune you were talking about in the area of health, Mr.António Filipe. The speech was that and it's easy to go after him.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u55	The truth is, it didn't happen, and I'm glad it did. The gentlemen. Members can now congratulate themselves, together with me, so it has not happened. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Crime numbers have come down. This is the last year of the four which are essentially covered by previous governance. In other words, from 2011 to 2012, minus 2, 3 %, from 2012 to 2013, minus almost 7 %, from 2013 to 2014, minus 6, 7 %. Therefore, there is a global, positive tendency to reduce crime, particularly those aspects of crime that are more dangerous or more worrying, such as violent crime, which is what causes the greatest social alarm, or crimes committed in a group or juvenile crime. This report shows, globally, a small reversal of this trend. Why? Because, globally, we have an increase of 1, 3 % of crime instead of the constant decrease that we have just had. First of all, I ask why this happens and, secondly, whether or not it is worrying. The explanation of why this happens I think it is easy and the question whether or not it is very worrying would say no. Why does it happen? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's easy to understand. First, it happens because the methodology has been changed, i.e., the numbers of all security forces are now being called into the report. Now, if the numbers of all the security forces appear, it is normal that the number of crimes is higher.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u57	Secondly, and as has already been mentioned here, there are new types of crime — and we can discuss whether or not there should be others — namely, animal crimes, which, in good time, this House of the Republic has approved, but, when there are new types of crime, it is also natural that the overall number of crimes increases. On the other hand, I recognize — and the Minister said so one day and I agree with you — there is a greater proactiveity of the security forces. None of this is globally worrying because the number of crimes is stabilized and, in particular, the number of group and violent crimes has continued to decrease, so it is not worrying.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u58	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u59	What is worrying in this report — and, Madam Minister, I would like to draw your attention to this fact — is, for example, the very large increase in crimes related to forest fires. There, yes, we have a worrying figure, an increase of almost 100 %, at a time when the country is still nearing the critical time. I don't have this weather analysis, it's not 1. the Commission which does so, but we know that years with the characteristics of this can be complicated years and if we join this aspect in the criminal phenomenon, we will surely be all concerned and will eventually require specific measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u61	Finally, Mr President, and in the short time available, I would just like to say that this report must be crossed and combined with global security concerns. Obviously, one of the key concerns is investment in means, teams, and cross this investment with reorganization itself. Again recently, we visited some teams in Lisbon that could close. I'm thinking about Zone J, in the famous case of Vila Franca de Xira team, which is degraded... Finally, we visited several teams and we found ourselves in various situations, as a complicated situation in Porto, as we know. We've made these visits.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u62	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. What security forces transmit to us is that the closure of these teams is not dramatic, provided there is investment and they are replaced. This investment is very important, Mrs. Minister, and therefore I ask you whether or not this investment is a priority. The Minister has some money available for petrol for cars, but such media law and such programming law still does not exist; the final answer to the question of pensions, whether GNR men or PSP men, does not exist. That is the concern and this report should read this concern. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u64	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Internal Administration, Mrs. State Secretaries, very good day to all. in discussing the 2015 Annual Internal Security Report, it should first be noted that this is a large part of the responsibility of the former PSD Government / CDS-PP. It should be noted, as we said last year, that RASI refers to crime registered and not crime verified, thus dealing with substantially different realities. In fact, there are many crimes that are not involved. They are not involved because there is disbelief in justice, because justice rates in judicial proceedings are irresponsible and because unfortunately—and I say unfortunately— many people do not believe that participation will have any practical outcome. Thus, RASI falls short of reality. Nevertheless, and when it comes to a universe that is the one of the crime involved, RASI could be a specific instrument of analysis of the evolution of crime and which could help in combating that crime itself. It happens that the 2015 RASI is not comparable to 2014, nor is it comparable to 2013, because the previous PSD/CDS government systematically altered the methodology used in the report, the aggregation of various types of crime. The various changes in the methodology of data processing prevent the true evolution of crime and transform RASI into a document of little credibility and usefulness. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, the first challenge for us is that this government sets out a methodology, fixes the aggregation of legal types of crime, so that the 2016 RASI is comparable to that of 2017. Having said this and yet, it is important to mention some RASI data that is worth analyzing and highlighting. However, before starting on this analysis, I leave a small reference to the PSD proposal on the typification of the term « old-age abandonment crime ». The first question we wanted to raise is that, contrary to what the PSD believes, the ill-treatment of the elderly is already punished. The second question we wanted to raise is that the PSD proposal, which created the legal type of abandonment of the elderly, was literally torn apart by virtually all the people who were heard in 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u67	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u68	In fact, I would like to draw attention to the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, pages 22 and 23, with the exception of a mistake in which the Superior Council of the Public Ministry alerts the serious consequences that the legal type of crime might have, since we would punish the person who practiced abandonment, who is the person who will then receive the elderly in his home, creating significant social problems. It would be irresponsible and it is proof that the creation of legal types of crime, the punishment of crime, does not solve the problems of our society. With regard to RASI, it is important to say that there has been an increase in recorded crime: a significant and abnormal increase in fire and fire crimes in the forest (over 106%) ; the crime of computer jokes has increased 73 %; as regards violent crime, it has increased more than 45% in the crime of theft by summer and 67 % in the crime of theft by pharmacy. As regards the crime of domestic violence, there has been a decrease in participations, but an increase in suspects arrested, which deserves us some concern and reflection on the amount of participation and what we are doing to increase levels of participation. We note that economic crimes and financial crimes, such as money laundering, corruption, ridicule, abuse of power and confidence, the charge rate, in the face of investigations initiated, is very low, which should deserve our reflection and concern. That is, there is much participation, few accusations and few practical effects in these economic and financial crimes. In terms of road fatality, there was an increase in the number of accidents, serious and minor injuries and a reduction in deaths on site. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that the dead on the spot are a fallacy, because unfortunately many of these injured die later in the hospital and are no longer considered in this statistics. It is necessary to correct this matter in order to have a real perception of the consequences of road sinistering. With regard to the prison system, we cannot fail to note as worrying that by the end of 2015 the number of prisoners was 14 222, which means a ratio of 100 000 inhabitants above the one verified in Austria, Germany, France, Belgium, Greece, Ireland and Italy. These are data that concerns us. We have a prison population above the average ratios of most European Union countries, which also deserves our concern and reflection. Finally, we want to insist that it is a mistake to talk about Armed Forces when we are talking about internal security, error that RASI is again committing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u69	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u70	It is also important that the RASI respects the Constitution and clearly separates internal security matters from national defence matters. Mr President, a final word of greeting to the thousands of professionals from different security forces and services, who have made an invaluable contribution to combating crime in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u71	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Internal Administration: First of all, I would like to thank Mr President and all the parliamentary leaders for the possibility of this debate. Ms. Minister, after the approval of Law No. 69 / 2014 of 29 August, for the first time the Internal Security Report refers to the crime of ill-treatment and abandonment of pets. 1330 shares have been accounted for by this type of crime and there are several considerations to be dealt with on this issue. The number of crime participations against pets does not reflect the reality of our country. This happens for several reasons. We see: according to data from GNR-SEPNA (Natural and Environmental Protection Service), districts with most complaints are those of Lisbon, Porto and Setúbal. Correlating data from all districts, the percentage of people reporting the crime of ill-treatment and abandonment of pets is higher in large urban centers, but this does not mean that the number of crimes is higher in these areas. It is therefore important to develop throughout the country training actions to criminal police bodies and judicial magistrates and initiatives to raise public awareness. When consulted the official data of the criminal police, the number of complaints is far greater than the criminal participations to the authorities, which means that there are many situations that, although not criminalized, are already censored by society. This shows that there is an increasing social consensus that animals deserve more and better legal protection, which must now be accompanied by political decision-makers. We cannot continue to compact with repeated abuse of errant animals, we cannot continue to allow death not to be criminalized if it is not preceded by ill-treatment, we cannot continue to allow the act of abandonment to go unpunished and the excessive confinement of animals to be still acceptable. It should also be noted that this data relates only to pets, but daily reality and daily complaints tell us that from the north to the south of the country there are animals of all species, attacked daily without any consequences. For example, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, beating a horse or letting him starve is not a crime, so it's not part of this statistic. And, yes, every day such acts occur in a country called Portugal. According to data from the Report, the second criminal category with more records is that of crimes against people and within this crime with more representativeness are those of offensive to simple physical integrity, domestic violence, threat and coercion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u73	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u74	I will finish, Mr. President. Experts say that much of these aggressors start precisely by mistreating animals and, over time, project this violence against people. The conclusion to be withdrawn is inevitable: violence is transversal to all these crimes. This means that there is a very important root work to be developed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u75	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u76	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. We need to find a path of harmony that is guided by values and respect for all, people and animals. Nonviolence is the force that will transform the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u77	You also have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mrs. Minister of Internal Administration, Urban Constance de Sousa, which I take advantage of to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, RASI is dynamic and I would like to thank all the suggestions regarding the methodology and data breakdown. As for the so-called « conjugal murder », already in RASI 2014 there was a change in methodology and the so-called « conjugal murder» or « in conjugal context» was transported to the murder chapter because it cannot be judged that a murder in conjugal context necessarily results from a situation of domestic violence. It is true that the 2015 RASI did not disaggregate the data of homicides in a more comprehensive family context, i.e. not only in a context of marital or analogous relationship, but also in a context of economic dependence or of descent and descent. There was no such breakdown. However, of course, I will forward to the Secretary-General for Internal Security all the suggestions expressed here. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to associate myself with thanks to the security forces and all the criminal police bodies, which have kept Portugal safe. Portugal is indeed a safe country. Of course I have no consolidated data for 2016, but I have some data already from 1. the quarter of this year that attest to the downward trend. Therefore, in the area of the security forces which I protect, it was registered in 1. this year's quarter, a decrease of about 5 % of the general crime involved and a decrease of almost 10 % of violent crime, with particular emphasis on a very significant decrease in the theft by summer. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u79	Mrs. Members, I recall that elections are taking place for independent external entities ( Constitutional Court, Economic and Social Council, Supreme Council of the Magistrature and Supervisory Body of the Secret of State ) and that the polls close at 16 hours. We will enter the fourth point of our order of business, which is from the re-evaluation of the Assembly Decree No 27 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates access to the pregnancy of substitution by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( production of assisted medicine ). As has been combined with all banks, the vote on this diploma will be taken at the beginning of the voting period, which will take place this afternoon. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was exactly 68 days ago that the Assembly of the Republic approved, and well, a bill that allowed access to pregnancy of substitution to women without uterus and women with serious disease or injury to this organ. It was exactly 68 days ago that the Assembly of the Republic recognized, and well, the right of these women, in a situation of serious illness, to maternity. The proposals adopted here resulted in a long debate in particular, resulting from the contribution of many entities, resulting from a discussion that has been held for years in the Assembly of the Republic and in society. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, however, said that he would raise a few questions and ask for some clarifications. We read the basis for your veto and we heard you say that it was an opportunity to improve your own diploma, and that is what the Left Block did. The amendments that we bring the vote here today make the diploma on the pregnancy of replacement a strengthened diploma, strengthened in the rights of the child, strengthened in the rights of the pregnant woman, strengthened in the contractual stability, strengthened in the contractual provisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u82	The rights and duties of the pregnant woman are clarified. It is clear that there is a need for a written contract, in which provision should be made for cases of malformation of the foetus and for situations where voluntary termination of pregnancy is necessary. It is clear that the contract cannot impose behavioral restrictions on pregnant women. The period until which consent may be revoked shall be clarified. And it is clear that in the informed consent should be explicit the influence of the pregnant woman on embryonic and foetal development. We have answered the questions raised. This is a good diploma and is, above all, a necessary diploma. 68 days ago, we made the right decision and, when it is, the right thing to do is keep that decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u84	This is not a law that removes rights, it adds rights. This is not a law against someone's life plans, it allows all people to carry out life projects. It is necessary to ensure that today, 20 July, women who have waited so long for this law do not need to wait any longer. It is necessary to ensure that today, July 20, is the day from which the projects materialize and the day from which the dreams occur. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u85	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the words of Mr. President of the Republic, the discussion on the legislative initiative regulating access to pregnancy of replacement did not correspond to the division between parliamentary groups supporting the Government and parliamentary groups of the opposition, nor to the classic distinction between right and left. We believe it to be positive, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that we can vote on initiatives in accordance with our conscience, with our principles and values, free of political division and focused on the causes that must unite us, in this case in the hope that we can bring to the many people who have so far been prevented from resorting to assisted drug procreation (WFP) and to carry out projects of parenthood inherent to their fundamental right to become a family. I stress the positive way in which the veto process of this Decree has taken place, not only because of the constructive appeal to the reflection presented by Mr. President of the Republic, but also because of the effort made by the various parties to discuss and amend this document in accordance with the opinion of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences. For the NAP, this proposal continues to be a positive step that we obviously follow and value. We also believe that there must be an even wider and deeper discussion on this subject, in particular with regard to ensuring equal rights for men and women. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u87	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that regulates the access to pregnancy of replacement in dramatic cases of absence of uterus, injury or disease of this organ that absolutely and definitively prevents pregnancy was approved in global final vote on day 13, with a very expressive and cross-sectional majority, in partisan terms. Even so, Mr President of the Republic, in full use of his powers, and in view of the legal safeguards that this matter deserves, has vetoed the diploma to — and I quote — (...) the Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to consider, once again, whether it wants to accept the conditions advocated by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, (...) ». The Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, author of the bill, did a careful work, taking into account the recommendations of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, in order to respond to the concerns of the President of the Republic, now being clear in the text of the diploma, the fundamental legal triangle of guarantees around the beneficiaries, pregnant women and life in training.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u90	If on May 13, 2016 the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group already trusted a good regulation of the law, today it is present to confirm a diploma that has been creating expectations for years and which represents one of the most important functions of the law, removing it from a legal barrier to the realization of personal projects of happiness. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u91	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a complex, controversial and relevant issue for Portuguese society. We continue in the CDS, as we have already done, to stress that there is a need for weighting and an extended debate that goes beyond the walls of Parliament, a debate about values rather than appropriate political circumstantialisms, which takes into account that, in terms of rights and freedoms, they do not claim to ignore the most vulnerable in this case children. For us, CDS, the rights of adults do not assert themselves against the rights of children. More: it is not progressing slightly for laws whose results are not properly framed and whose consequences have imprecise contours of untolerable social experimentalism in these issues and which ignore relevant facts that science presents to us about the relationship between mother and child.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u94	For us, the woman's uterus is not an incubator and the woman cannot be instrumentalized in the name of any attainable aspirations but that are not exactly a right. The changes now introduced by the Left Block correspond, in our view, to a change in form and not to an effective change of content. On the other hand, the doubts and reservations that were presented at the time of the presidential veto, and also by credible entities, such as the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, are still not properly framed and answered. It will not be, among other things, the existence of a written contract to ensure the protection of the rights of the child, nor is it the absence of a payment that makes this business legally, morally and socially acceptable especially for the child. There are, therefore, numerous questions and reservations for us that keep us from being against this diploma. We would also like to say that, for a matter of this density and relevance, we do not understand, nor do we subscribe, the lack of transparency surrounding this new diploma, nor the hasty form as it was presented, nor the absence of a serious and thoughtful debate on the subject. For the CDS, this way of acting does not credibility neither Parliament nor political institutions. We want to insist on the need for a serious, broad, ethical, legal and moral debate, which is not exhausted — we insist — in no way in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u96	We do not ignore the recent presentation of a petition with more than 4000 signatures, asking for that, and we welcome this initiative of civil society, since, for us, there are no petitions of first and second.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u98	I end by reaffirming our concern, both with matters of rights and freedoms, and with the issues of happiness and suffering of citizens. For us, the happiness of one cannot be stated at the expense of ignoring the most vulnerable in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u99	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u100	I shall conclude, Mr President. I hope that this House will be able to meet the complexity of this matter, in the name of the dignity and freedom of all citizens, especially children. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u101	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the amendments made by the proposers following the veto of the President of the Republic, there are issues that still do not have the necessary weighting and which cannot be neglected in this process. The problem, previously pointed out above, remains to be defined as a criterion of access to the subjective reference to clinical situations that justify it, allowing the extension of the use of pregnancy of replacement without depending on an objective criterion. The application to the pregnant woman to replace the rules on the rights and duties of beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques does not go beyond the issues raised regarding the protection of the well-being, physical integrity and health of the replacement pregnant woman throughout the process, especially during pregnancy and later period. On the other hand, the new wording continues not to give effect to the concern raised by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences regarding the cumulative verification of aspects relating to the information of the beneficiary couple and the replacement pregnant women, under the terms of the revocation of consent and its consequences, the provision of contractual provisions for the occurrence of malformations or foetal diseases and possible termination of pregnancy, as well as the decision on any health complications occurring in pregnancy, either at the fetal level or at the maternal level. The proposals now put forward on these aspects are insufficient and even undetermined. The information of the beneficiaries and of the replacement pregnant woman, as regards embryonic and foetal development, does not eliminate the possibility of breach of the said contract at a more advanced stage of the process. The current law provides for the freedom to revoke consent before the application of the assisted medicinal product breeding technique. But what are the consequences of withdrawal of consent during pregnancy or after the birth of the child? When is the contract broken by the will of the beneficiaries who is responsible for the child? And when he's broken by the pregnant woman, who refuses to give up the baby? The text of the law now proposed continues not to answer these questions and also continues not to answer the questions of supervision, of the motivation of contracts, not completely removing the possibility of instrumentalization of the human body with economic motivations, in particular of the body of women and the organs of reproduction. We reaffirm that the pregnancy of substitution has physical and psychic implications that cannot be ignored and that require increased reflection. Direct intervention by a third person, another woman who intervenes deeply in the pregnancy process, introduces a set of potential conflicts and ethical issues that have to be considered not only regarding the relationship between the people involved in the technique but also between the same and the child generated. Supposing a pregnancy for nine months is something that leads to enormous transformations in the woman and her body and in which emotional and emotional connections of the pregnant woman are woven with the being that is being generated. It would be deeply wrong to consider that a woman's access to a replacement pregnancy is as if nothing had happened in what pregnancy has to do with biological, psychological and affective. The lack of answers to the doubts and questions we have raised...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u103	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u104	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The absence of a response to the doubts and questions we have raised demonstrates the high complexity of the issue of replacement pregnancy and shows that no conditions are met in this legal text for approval. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u105	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are debating is not compatible with the imposition of values in an authoritarian way but with the proposal of each human being's autonomy of thought and in accordance with the legal provisions governing the exercise of citizenship. The family is the first social space where human dignity is built and developed in all its dimensions. The family is an earlier reality and superior to the State, but it is up to the State to protect this fundamental core of society. Every citizen therefore has the right to constitute his or her family, including the right to marry, but, under equal circumstances, also the right not to constitute it or not to enter into marriage. It is important, however, to make it clear that, for the PSD, any reflection on these issues will never abdicate respect for the dignity and identity of the human being in all its meanings and in all its stages of development. In matters of such importance, and which should convene the whole society, the political-party agendas will not be relevant when what everyone should move should be the suffering of those who for years wish to have a child and not achieve it for medical reasons. This should always be our guiding line, placing the absolute primacy of our thoughts in safeguarding the best interests of these children. by improving the human condition and by placing hope in the spectacular advances of our medicine, we have very good reasons in Portugal to counterbalance the desire of someone to have a child, in the exercise of their full freedom, with all the guarantees of protection of the interests of the unborn child in the most exemplary affirmation of the dignity of human life. But above all, there is also an absolute conviction on the part of the PSD that children born through LDCs techniques have, of course, guaranteed their first right: to be very desired! The debate that has been held and which has led us so far aims to bring the law into line with current realities, including consistency with other legislative measures already approved in relation to parental project, equality and birth. Christmas, yes, because our country really needs babies! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having arrived here and after H.E. the President of the Republic has vetoed the diploma on 7 June, and having returned to this House by understanding, and I quote, '(...) because the Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to consider, once again, whether...', or not, '...to accept the conditions advocated by the National Council of Ethics and Science for Life, now not consecrated or even removed. Do not keep on seeking. ” It seems to us entirely aware that this weighting, evaluation, analysis and consultation can be done, hearing necessarily the scientific, academic and civil community, opening the debate to the whole Portuguese society. What is manifestly due and must be done! This also justifies that, still this week, another initiative has been advocated, in the form of a public petition, subscribed by more than 4200 citizens and that has already entered this House, to which, of course, this Parliamentary Group cannot remain indifferent, because for the PSD Parliamentary Group, all people are equal in rights and duties, both those who have been born and have their rights legally guaranteed as well as those to be born and for which we have the duty and, moreover, the imperative obligation to guarantee them exactly the same. It is in this firm belief that the PSD Parliamentary Group has decided to request the postponement of the vote on these amendments for the next legislative session so that the constructive scope of the presidential veto cannot be compromised. in such a matter, discussion and decision should not be perpetuated, but they also deserve no rush or precipitation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u107	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From the perspective of the Greens, what is involved in this discussion is a right of women without the uterus or with injury or disease in this organ have a parenthood project, and the project of kinship they wish, or do not have. This is the position of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to take this. Mr President of the Republic has vetoed and we are now confirming the Decree with amendments, which, in the Greens' perspective, meet with some doubts that had been raised by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, namely that the legal business has to foresee what happens in the event of malformation of the fetus, without allowing restrictions of behavior to the pregnant woman of substitution or issues that affect her rights, freedoms and dignity. I wanted, with all the border, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, to say that the Greens are perfectly in a position to vote in favour of the confirmation of this Decree and, with that confirmation, we are once again contributing directly to the promotion of the happiness of many people in our country, and we believe that this is the duty of all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have. Postponing these projects, we put our hand to postpone these projects, is not a good service that we provide to the country. in this sense, The Greens will today make their contribution towards what they consider to be the responsibility it owes to the Portuguese and Portuguese. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u109	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the fifth point of our agenda, which is the debate on the priorities of the Presidency of Slovakia in the European Council, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( b ). Law No 43 / 2006, of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May ( monitoring, assessment of the declaration on Portuguese participation in the construction process of the European Union ), together with the Government's report on Portugal's participation in the construction process of the European Union, concerning the year 2015, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May ( on the monitoring, assessment and pronunciation of Portuguese participation in the construction process of the European Union ), and draft resolution No 418 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the report on Portugal in the European Union 2015 ( Commission on European Affairs ). To speak on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for European Affairs, to whom first and foremost I comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is up to me to present here the priorities of the Slovak Presidency in the Council of the European Union. Slovakia assumes, for the first time, this 2. the 2016 semester, the rotating Presidency in the Council of the European Union, integrated in the trio of presidencies, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Malta. Slovakia inherits the many and complex challenges the European Union has faced and for which an urgent response is needed: from anemia of economic growth to security threats. The results of the British referendum added a new disturbance: the departure of a Member State from the European Union, an issue which will inevitably be on the agenda before or after the entry of the application under Article 50. the Treaty of Lisbon. As soon as the new British government notifys the European Union of its intention to leave, we will then be able to start negotiations on the terms of departure and on the future relationship with the United Kingdom. Despite this unprecedented fact in the history of the Union, Portugal shares the Slovak conviction that the European Union will have to continue to make political decisions, to operate and manage the most pressing issues on its agenda. In fact, if there is something that is unanimous in the British post-referendum, it is the need of the Union to focus on citizens, on the security and social conditions of citizens, with concrete results for those who must be the privileged recipients of their action: Europe and the Europeans. It is in this context that the Slovak Presidency focuses essentially on four areas: an economically strong Europe; modernisation of the internal market; a sustainable migration and asylum policy; and a Europe engaged in global affairs. First priority, an economically strong Europe. We could no longer agree with the priority of growth and employment. Aware of the current European context, we have no doubt that the deepening of economic and monetary union remains an essential element in responding structurally and consistently to the current situation and the economic shocks that the Union may suffer. We therefore welcome the Slovak intention to continue the work on this dossier in accordance with the report of the five Presidents. Slovakia intends to boost the debate, including the tax pillar on common macroeconomic stabilization tools (the budget pillar), such as the common European unemployment insurance. The approach which the Presidency intends to give to the European pillar of social rights is also very welcome and underlines how important social convergence in the European Union is, a particularly defective pillar so far. The Slovak Presidency still wants to go as far as possible in the areas of banking union and the union of capital markets, which are fundamental to strengthening the financial system and equal access to finance by all small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ). Another of the instruments highlighted by the Slovak Presidency is the European Fund for Strategic Investment. We agree with its relevance, but we must not fail to point out that the impact of the Fund is still limited, especially in countries most in need of the programme, such as Portugal, as the Commission has acknowledged. The Slovak Presidency will also launch the review work of the multiannual financial framework 2014 / 2020 ( QFP ), an exercise in which we argue that the stability of current policies should be preferred. Second priority, modernisation of the internal market. The deepening of the single market, one of the essential pillars of European construction, will remain at the heart of the European agenda. thus, we consider very positive the importance given by the Presidency to the internal market, in particular the single energy market and the digital single market. In the case of energy, this is a strategic sector for Portugal. In view of the energy isolation of the Iberian Peninsula, Portugal has advocated the importance of meeting the interlinking goals set out in the 2014 European Council. Within the digital market, Portugal supports, in particular, the need for a European action plan on the electronic government, where the country has made important progress and that the Simple programme is one of the best examples, which will strengthen interoperability between the public administrations of the Member States and enhance the use of digital public services by European citizens. The most traditional sectors of the internal market will also be followed up as is the case with agricultural markets, especially the milk and pigmeat sectors. Third priority, a sustainable asylum and migration policy. With regard to the fields of justice and home affairs, migration issues are inconsequential. The 2nd. the 2016 semester will essentially be a semester of implementation and implementation of initiatives of the previous presidency, with three main issues on the agenda: the Dublin review ; the return to full functioning of Schengen ; and, externally, the conclusion of pacts with third countries within the framework of the partnership framework drawn up by the Commission. The Slovak Presidency's approach is in the protection of external borders and in the security of the Schengen area. Although we agree with the importance of this aspect in migration policy, we believe that other aspects should also be valued, such as acceleration in the implementation of relocation and resettlement mechanisms. Still in the field of justice and internal affairs, and recalling the heinous attack on 14 July in Nice, on a day when values were celebrated, which are not only French but also Europeans — freedom, equality and fraternity — I would like to stress that the programme of the current trio of presidencies gives priority to the implementation of the renewed internal security strategy of the European Union that integrates the fight against the illicit trafficking in firearms and the updating of the European legal framework for combating terrorism. Fourth and last priority, Europe is committed to global affairs. In the field of external action, the Slovak Presidency aims to give visibility to enlargement, and here it should be recalled, for its present time, the Copenhagen criteria. Finally, the Slovak Presidency will also seek to follow up the overall strategy of the European Union on foreign and security policy and also to continue trade policy by signing the agreement with Canada, and to continue negotiations with the TTIP and Japan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u111	Mr Secretary of State, you have signed up for clarification. Mr. Manuel Rodrigues, PSD, Isabel Pires, BE, and Pedro Mota Soares, CDS-PP. How does the Secretary of State want to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u112	Together, at the end, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u113	Mr Manuel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u114	Mr President, Secretary of State for European Affairs, the start of the Slovak Presidency marks a particular moment of complexity in the life of the European Union. Europe is under multiple threats, which we vehemently condemn and unite in solidarity as Europeans, and call for a strengthening of values of peace and freedom that represent the founding principles of the construction of the European Union. The European project also faces the outcome of the UK referendum, which first presents to us the challenges associated with leaving a Member State of the European Union. The Government's report on Portugal's participation in the European Union in 2015 focuses on the need for full implementation of the report of the five Presidents relaunching the process of deepening economic and monetary union through the need for greater European integration in the economic, financial, budgetary, political and social areas. But the coexistence of a single monetary policy in countries with divergent growth levels requires further reforms. It is necessary to implement a true financial union for growth and stability in which the full realization of banking union is inserted. The banking union is incomplete. The first and second pillars of the banking union, relating to single supervision and the European Resolution Fund, have been implemented, but it is, however, the implementation of the third pillar, the European Deposit Guarantee Fund, which gives more resilience and confidence to the banking union. The failure to implement this third pillar is creating geographical discrimination at the cost of financing our companies. But alongside the discrimination of financing costs, the fact that we have a bank union that is not complete creates a vulnerability in the European project that compromises confidence and growth. The financial union we plan is, however, more than the banking union. Enterprises, and particularly small enterprises, need to be supported in the diversification of sources of financing and in access to the capital market. But in order to promote convergence in the European area, and in particular the euro area, it is necessary to move forward with a profound institutional reform of the European architecture. It is necessary to create a real economic counterpart of the European Central Bank. This economic counterpart would balance monetary policy with a common economic policy. If the European Central Bank's priority is price stability, the side of this counterparty would be focused on growth, investment and employment generation. This instrument would be a European monetary fund that confers greater common responsibility and can enhance the credibility and economic confidence in the euro area. That is why in May 2015 the Portuguese Government proposed the creation of a European monetary fund, which is proposed which makes more sense today. Firstly, the European Monetary Fund would have as its mission the stabilization of the euro area to economic shocks, avoiding its contagion and reducing the economic and social costs associated with adjustment processes. In this way, it aims to prevent most of the adjustment from having to depend solely on internal devaluation. in this sense, the European stability mechanism would be integrated into the European monetary fund. Secondly, the European Monetary Fund should be endowed with budgetary capacity with sufficient own funds to finance national structural reforms, finance infrastructure investment projects and strengthen the single market in future investment plans. This mechanism would play an anticyclical and automatic stabilising role at the level of active employment policies, a function which could be exercised through a European supplement or even a partial replacement to the national unemployment allowance, thus allowing partial Europeanisation of policies in the labour market. In this way, we are calling for further institutional reform of the European Union to allow for greater risk sharing between Member States, realized through the own resources of this mechanism with this genesis. These proposals, which were initially advanced by the Portuguese Government in 2015, could today bring together a strong national consensus. Madam Secretary of State, is the Portuguese Government available today so that Portugal can play a more active role in building the future of the European Union and thus contribute to bringing the European project closer to the aspirations of our citizens? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u115	Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u116	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this debate, as has been seen by the speeches taken so far, is also a debate on the state of the European Union. The state of a European Union which, in the midst of an unprecedented institutional crisis, is concerned and takes as its main priority the application of sanctions to countries such as Portugal and Spain. In the Portuguese case because they exceeded 0, 2 percentage points of the rules that were instituted. But at the same time that these penalties exist for Portugal and Spain, other countries that do not comply with them are not penalized. And this penalty, which is existing on the Portuguese people and also on the Spanish people, is a penalty that is not excusable, neither with the European Commission, nor with any other excuse that attempts to find itself politically. We are therefore faced with a state of the European Union, in our view, with the priorities exchanged. We are talking about the priorities for the next six months of the Slovak Presidency, in which, including one of the essential points — as the Secretary of State has said — is the approach to the citizens. We ask: how is it that in this European Union, which has two weights and two measures in the application of its rules, which calls on countries to take measures that clearly go against what is the welfare of their citizens, these priorities, which have been followed so far, to be compatible with an attempt to approach citizens? This is because, without listening to citizens and taking measures and policies against their lives, there is no great compatibility between these two priorities here. This is the question I leave here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u117	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u118	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, it is not worth rounding up with the words. The European Union is experiencing a horrible moment. For the first time, in 59 years, the European Union was amputated and not increased. If we do not realize that Europe also has responsibilities in the outcome of the UK referendum, not only do we not understand what is going on in the UK, as, much worse than that, we will not realize what is happening in many of the public views on this side of the canal, in many of the public views of the continent. We have experienced the worst humanitarian crisis since the Second World War in Europe and the lack of response capacity of the European Union has made this humanitarian crisis an institutional crisis. Schengen has collapsed, European solidarity has been broken and the humanist tradition that Europe has always been called into question. And this reflects the growth of extremist, extreme-right or extreme-left parties, which are populists, who are anti-European Union, who are against the free movement of workers or against the European project. And it is in this scenario that the European Union takes a very bad decision for the Union itself, which is the beginning of a sanctions procedure against Portugal and Spain. This decision is a bad decision for the Union because it calls into question the solidarity of the Union itself and, above all, corroborates the sense of belonging of many Europeans. Applying sanctions to Portugal is an unfair and unjustifiable decision. It is unfair because it does not recognise the effort and sacrifice that the Portuguese have made to comply with a Adjustment Programme, which was also negotiated with the European Commission and widely praised by the European Commission itself, but above all are unjustifiable sanctions because Portugal has effectively managed to fulfil, even with many sacrifices, the value of the deficit that was envisaged if they were to withdraw, as we have to withdraw, extraordinary measures. And I'm not the only one who says it. It is important to remember that the current Government of Portugal, on 10 December 2015, left the Council of Ministers, saying that with an additional captivating of EUR 46 million, the deficit would fall below 3%. On 27 April, the Government reaffirmed here, also in Parliament, that without BANIF the deficit was 3, 03 %. On 4 July, and this is already more serious, the Prime Minister wrote a letter to the President of the European Commission saying that the deficit in Portugal in 2015 was 3, 2 %. Two days later, the Minister of Finance, in an official document, says that the deficit was 3, 1 %. And this week the Government has written another letter to the European Commission saying that the deficit is only above 3%. There is one thing that Mrs. Secretary of State has to realize: this succession of untrue numbers on denied numbers undermines confidence in Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u120	... and makes it corrode what we need, which is a negotiating margin, and in this sense harms, and does much harm, the Portuguese position in the European Union. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But there is another issue on which the Secretary of State will have to answer here at the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u121	Otherwise...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u122	Or else, Mr. Secretary of State? Oh, my God! Is it not the task of the members of the Government to answer the questions that the honourable Members are asking them here? Oh, my God! This is the task of a responsible government and a State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs has first of all to know this. Mr. Secretary of State is here to answer, he's not here to catch Pokémons. Do you understand, Mr. Secretary of State? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Secretary of State, in the debate of the State of the Nation, the Prime Minister of Portugal said that he would try to raise a minority of blockades in Brussels concerning the application of sanctions to Portugal. Two days later, the President of the Eurogroup says that the decision in the Eurogroup was taken unanimously. The question I ask you, very much, Madam Secretary of State, is: what are you doing, or what did you or did not, within the European Union, do in relation to a number of countries that could effectively lift this blocking minority and actually block the sanctions process? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u123	You don't know the rules of the European Union! He doesn't seem to be a member of a government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u124	In reply, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the questions that have been put to me in the time that I still have. Starting with the sanctions, I must say that I agree with the honourable Member when he says that the sanctions are unfair and unjustified or, better, they will be unfair and unjustifiable, and I think that it is also worth pointing out that the European Commission has lost the opportunity to appear as a political institution. When the European Commission, in its decision, says that it is a technical or legislative decision, in fact, lost the opportunity to be a political institution, especially at a time when the European Commission is particularly targeted by groups such as the Visegrád Group, or with statements from other countries, who want to question the role of the European Commission. The European Commission has always been the privileged partner institution of the small and medium-sized countries. Therefore, the Commission's political role is to safeguard and the Commission, with this decision, lost the opportunity to show itself as a political institution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u126	Madam Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u127	Question me: how do we approach the citizens of the European Union? This is the fundamental issue, because the European Union has to decide, it has to rule for Europe and European citizens in what citizens expect, in their safety, in their social conditions. This is the priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u128	Madam Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u129	I conclude now, Mr President. On the other hand, to give an idea that Portugal's participation in the European Union is summed up in budgetary matters, in what kind of additional measures, in the deficit, in the sanctions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u130	You really have to conclude, Madam Secretary of State, we today cannot be tolerant of the times.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u131	...is a negative image for Portugal and is a negative image of the European Union with the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u132	For an intervention, Mrs Francisca Parreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the first time Slovakia assumes the Presidency of the European Union, at a time marked by various crises and with many uncertainties as to the future and the political direction of the Union. For this reason, this is also the time to follow the political developments of the European project with renewed attention and contribute to the effort of reflection that is required, without losing sight of the reasons that led us to embrace this Union. the priorities defined above are mainly economic, financial and social issues for Portugal in the field of deepening economic and monetary union with regard to banking union and the union of capital markets, energy issues, as well as the issues of the migration and asylum policy crisis and prevention and combating terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Moreover, the Portuguese Government has been able to interpret the duty of a European state, through the generous reception of many refugees, to welcome it with an integrated matrix, in respect of international conventions and Union law, in the area of asylum. In view of the current European Agenda on Migration, in particular its external aspects and the root causes of migration flows, Portugal's position has been and is exemplary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal will contribute decisively to the implementation of the dossiers relating to the review of the Dublin System, the adaptation of the Schengen area to new realities and, externally, in the partnership framework, continuing to be an interlocutor with regard to the operationalization of the European Coast Guard and Borders. It will continue to support the European Union's efforts in the field of prevention and combating terrorism. The deepening of the single market will be at the heart of the agenda and at the top of that agenda energy issues, as well as the enlargement process and the stabilisation process, credibility factor, stability and peace for Europe. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Termo, quoting a great Europeanist, Mário Soares : « Europe is no longer the sole geographical expression of a continent. Europe today is a constantly evolving idea, endowed with a dynamic capable of transcending certain national particularisms and finding itself in the discovery and definition of aspirations common to all European peoples". [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u134	This dynamic concept of Europe requires that it be constantly reconsidered. Building Europe is not an easy task, but building Europe is a mission and duty of the Europeans, it is a mission and work of all Europeans. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government : In the face of the brutal crisis that strikes the European Union, a crisis in and of the European Union, which is not of today and which results from the political options of the European Union, contrary to the interests of the peoples, the priorities of the Slovak Presidency are no more than a flight forward on the path of deepening the pillars that characterize the so-called « European construction process », neoliberalism, federalism and militarism, and the concentration of political and economic power. Essentially, it insists on the same recipe, which has already shown that it does not solve the problems of the peoples, only makes them worse, that it is unemployment, that it is the increase in poverty and inequality and that it is exploitation. It insists on policies for the withdrawal of rights to workers and peoples. People's dissatisfaction with the political and ideological options of the European Union increases. The result of the referendum in the United Kingdom is an expression of the same discontent. Moreover, the outcome of the referendum should be an opportunity which cannot be wasted to tackle and solve the real problems of the people, questioning the whole process of capitalist integration of the European Union and opening up a new and different path of cooperation in Europe, social progress and peace. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government : To insist on policies to deepen the single market, to complete the banking union, economic and monetary union, political union, budgetary and fiscal union, as referred to in the Report of the Five Presidents, to create the coastal guard or to continue negotiations of the Transatlantic Trade Agreement with the United States of America, as the Slovak Presidency does, corresponds to the withdrawal of larger shares of sovereignty of the Member States and allows greater accumulation of wealth by transnational capital, at the cost of withdrawing workers' rights and attacking their incomes, at the cost of privatizing public services and social functions of the State and protecting public and food health. The intention of the European Union to provisionally implement the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, after its adoption by the Council and the European Parliament, but before ratification by their national parliaments, is a deep disregard for the sovereignty of each Member State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u138	We hope that the Portuguese Government will not accept the application of any agreement on matters relating to our country's exclusive competence before the Assembly of the Republic takes its stand in defence of our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u140	The Slovak Presidency insists on the shameful agreement between the European Union and Turkey paying Turkey to contain refugees. The Mediterranean is becoming the largest common area in Europe. PCP has alerted to this reality. The European Union clearly wanted to throw out of its borders a problem on which there are many responsibilities that cannot be ignored. Instead of guaranteeing the human rights and dignity of asylum seekers, the European Union opts for a militaristic and security path in the approach to this humanitarian drama, deliberately confusing refugee policy with migration policy with the aim of undermining freedoms and withdrawing rights, bringing the European Union down to the ground of solidarity and rights. in the same way, the Slovak Presidency insists on the European Union's overall strategy to set new steps towards deepening the European Union's militaristic, military and interventionist policies, subjecting the foreign policy of the Member States to the interests of the great European powers and the strategy of the United States of America and NATO, as was clearly evident in strengthening cooperation between the European Union and NATO, at the NATO summit held recently. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The report on Portugal's participation in the European Union reflects the nature and consequences of the policy imposed by the European Union on our country, policies that have led to the degradation of the living conditions of workers and the people and which prevent the development and progress of our country. Consideration of the possibility of applying sanctions to our country is not disconnected from this process. In fact, the European Union wants to punish Portugal for the results of the policy which it itself imposed and which PSD and CDS have implemented, but, in fact, sanctions are an instrument to try to impose the continuation of the policy of exploitation and impoverishment that our people have rejected. Sanctions are therefore an unacceptable pressure, blackmail and interference on a sovereign country — they want to further attack the rights of workers and our people — and result in a set of instruments and mechanisms imposed with the same objective, such as the budgetary treaty, the European Semester or the Stability and Growth Pact. The reality shows that it is necessary to break the path of submission to the European Union. We reject the sanctions, we defend that Portugal is disengaged from the budget treaty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u141	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u142	I shall conclude, Mr President. We defend the holding of an intergovernmental conference with a view to the repeal of the budget treaty and other treaties. Portugal has to get rid of the ties and constraints that prevent its development. It is therefore necessary to start new ways of cooperation in Europe, development, progress and social justice, with respect for the sovereignty, independence, identity and rights of peoples, for a Europe of peace. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u143	Mrs. Members, I inform you that the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party has yielded 2 minutes of its time to the Government. For an intervention, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The debate on the priorities of the Slovak Presidency and, in general, the debates we have in this House on European matters are indeed of the greatest importance. And in today's debate, as in all the debates we have had recently, the division of positions between the majority on this matter is well evident. The interventions of the parties on the left-hand side that the Government supports will systematically reject the Europeanist convictions which the PS has always shared, and which it affirms, moreover, continue to share, and the fulfilment of the commitments which this Parliament has bound itself to, including with the approval of the Socialist Party to the current budgetary treaty. On the issue of European defence, we all have an interest in defending Europe, and we must realize that, in the defence of Europe, it plays a central role in the responsibility that each government assumes for the part it must do. We must understand that the perception that Europe has, that the Commission and the European partners have about the country is in direct relation to what the Portuguese Government is doing, with what is happening in the Portuguese Parliament. This element of responsibility is essential to promote European cohesion and to ensure the solidarity that we all defend that Europe must have with regard to the country. But solidarity has as its currency the responsibility and what we hear constantly here—to reject the budget treaty, to reject the measures, to say that the rules we are committed to are right strategies or whatever it is to lead to the impoverishment of the peoples—is a speech which, Mr President, is a matter of concern. Members, in addition to not being true, seriously harm the country in terms of external perception. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u145	Today, we go on vacation or, better, we do not have any plenary session where we can all be gathered before the parliamentary holidays and we are very concerned. We are very concerned, because the government and the majority that supports it have apparently done everything possible to undermine the country's credibility and trust among its citizens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u146	Well remembered! [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u147	... but also with our European partners. What we are witnessing is a general concern. The issue of sanctions, which we have much debated, is a subject, as has already been said here, unfair and unjustified, a situation which should not, at least, be on the table. The Government has said that it has defended the position of the previous government or, better, the position of budgetary implementation; we have submitted a request through the Committee on European Affairs to ask the Government to provide the correspondence where this reasoning is based, because we want to know exactly how and what technical arguments is that the Government has raised to make that defence. But our concerns are, in fact, broader. What we are witnessing is a set of policies that are put into practice and whose results are frankly negative. All the new indicators that appear point in the same direction: the economy slows down, the interest rates rise, the confidence deteriorates, the investment sinks. All of this is the result of the policies that have been followed. The Government also opts to exacerbate external risks by making frequent and irresponsible statements about the financial system. Instead of fulfilling its responsibility to resolve these matters with transparency, but with serenity, it seems to be committed to making political declarations that only make the problem even greater every day. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u148	What we want to remind the government and the majority who support it is that the external risks are many and, when the external risks are many, and we all know that they are, the government's obligation to defend the country, not putting it in a fragile situation. What the government has done is exactly the opposite and with a strategy which, unfortunately, has been used to, for a long time, that is, to pass-offs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u149	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u150	It's been eight months and it's always someone else's fault. It is from the previous government, which did not consolidate the accounts, after having made an extraordinary Council of Ministers, as it has already been here again, where they ensured that they would leave the deficit below 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u151	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u152	It is the government that constantly makes statements that raise concerns, but at the same time says that the responsibility of the financial system is the previous government, that the responsibility of deterioration in the economy is Brexit. And let's see how many excuses and reasons they'll show up! Now, if the Portuguese have a government that apparently does not take responsibility for anything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u153	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u154	... the first question is: why did we want a government in those circumstances? Second question: when will you finally begin to assume that what you do has negative consequences for the country, in the expectation that you can do so in time to reverse this path? Sanctions will be applied if the Government does not give guarantees to European partners on the right path. The Portuguese deserve this effort, they deserve that respect. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u155	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State still has 41 seconds which I sincerely hope will be able to use to answer the questions put to her here. I would like to say again: the lifting of sanctions against Portugal and Spain is above all a bad decision for the European Union, it is a decision that corroborates the feeling of belonging of many European citizens, not only in Portugal, not only in Spain but throughout the Union, because it is very unfair to ask a people to sacrifice as many sacrifices as the Portuguese people have done, to carry out a programme of adjustment negotiated with the European Commission itself, so often praised by the European Commission itself, which has effectively succeeded in having the result of a deficit below 3% within the limits of the Treaty, and then to punish that same country. This European decision-making process is very serious and undermines both the trust of European citizens. The fact is that the Portuguese Government, probably for internal political reasons, has so far failed to have a strong position, have a solid position and is constantly changing the 2015 deficit numbers with the European Commission. They started by saying that the deficit was below 3 %; then they said it was 3, 03 %; then it was 3, 2 %; then it was 3, 1 %; and now they only say it is above 3 %, not knowing well. This, the Secretary of State, is that it undermines, and much, confidence in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u157	There is one question I will ask you again, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u158	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u159	Mr. Prime Minister said in this plenary that he would try to raise a minority of blockades. The fact is that he did not do so either at the Ecofin meeting, or at the Eurogroup meeting, or to indicate how many countries were actually with us, and in this sense to block the subsequent process.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u161	I do not understand why Mr Prime Minister said something that he did not do in Brussels. Once again, we are seeing that Mr Secretary of State — and I remember very well to hear that we would have a government in Portugal that made a big voice in Brussels — does not make a big voice either in Brussels or Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u162	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Edite Estrela.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report on Portugal's participation in the European Union in 2015 highlights the deliberations of the European institutions with greater impact on Portugal. The year 2015 was marked by an announcement by the British Prime Minister of the holding of a referendum on the UK's stay in the European Union, the result of which is already well known. With regard to internal policies, steps have been taken to achieve the Union for Energy, which will allow for reform of the energy interconnections aimed at ensuring the full integration of the Iberian Peninsula into the internal energy market. It was also the report of the five presidents to relaunch the process of deepening economic and monetary union, with a particular focus on banking union. With regard to the area of freedom, security and justice, with the greatest tragedy in the Mediterranean after World War II, migration was at the top of the European agenda, although without adequate answers by the European Union. The year 2015 was also marked by several terrorist attacks on European soil, which forced the revision of the law on firearms and the fight against terrorism. Portugal has supported all the initiatives carried out by the various European bodies. The balance of our current account with the European Union is still positive, but far away comes the enthusiasm of accession and the consolidated confidence in the first decades. Long goes the time when the European dream, sparked by Monnet and Schuman, mobilized about 500 million citizens who believed in this unique project. Today, there is the risk of dream becoming a nightmare. Europe is at a crossroads and hesitates on the way forward. Instead of worrying about the tragedy of refugees, Brexit, the terrorist attacks, the economic situation, unemployment and the banking crisis, the European Union is struggling to discuss 0, 2 % of Portuguese GDP, just over 300 million euros. But Mr Mota Soares, not everything is Europe's responsibility. It is not solely European responsibility that the PSD/CDS government has lowered Portuguese GDP at 2000 levels and employment at 1996 levels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u164	That's the responsibility of the Socrates government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u165	It is not solely European responsibility that the majority of Portuguese have been crushed by tax burden and wage reduction, that one third of children have been at risk of poverty, that thousands of young graduates have been forced to emigrate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u166	It's Socrates' responsibility! Do you know who it is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u167	... that the PSD/CDS government has sacrificed everything on behalf of the reduction of deficit and debt and that the deficit has risen and the debt has increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] It was by ideological choice, Mr Mota Soares, that his Ministry cut into support for the elderly and social income of insertion, throwing many families into poverty. It was your Ministry. [[Protests by PSD Deputies Duarte Filipe Marques and CDS-PP Pedro Mota Soares.]] Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, it was not the European Union which, during the election campaign, misled the Portuguese, saying that she had the safes full, announcing the target of 2, 7 % of the deficit and ending in the procedure due to excessive deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u168	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u169	It was also not the European Union that went to hide and lie about the situation of the Portuguese bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u170	What a fool! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u171	It's hard to hear the truth! It's hard to hear the truth! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Who doesn't remember the clumsy clean exit? The Portuguese have already understood what this euphemistic cleaning meant and how much it will cost them. Everyone's responsibility; to the PSD Government / CDS the responsibility for the state in which he left Portugal in 2015! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u172	What a big "cana"!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u173	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the time we discussed in Parliament the Government's report on Portugal's participation in the process of building the European Union and the priorities of the Slovak Presidency in the European Council, it is important to analyse the scenario and prospects for the future. Thus, it is clear to everyone that the European Union and the so-called 'European integration process' are at a crossroads. In fact, there is one word that can define the state of the European Union today: crisis, not in a single crisis, but in a multifaceted crisis, which obliges us to several points of approach and, consequently, to alternative and diversified proposals in its content. First of all, we can talk about an economic crisis, which has been prolonged over time. With a forthcoming financial crisis announced, it is already used as a blackmail on national policies. The solutions presented by the European institutions, on the one hand, insist on an attempt to converge in a banking union (which is more perverse than beneficial) and on the other hand to threaten those who do not follow the austerity plan. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u175	Putting banks before citizens and citizens is still a priority, but those who try to pursue a different path are soon attacked and threatened. from there we move on to the institutional crisis within the European Union. The alleged convergence attempts only accentuate today the character of strengthening powers in the centre, in the directory of countries that want everything to decide, with Germany ahead. The Brexit process itself is adding sources of ruin to the European institutions, which are at a standstill today: they are now critical of the British, they now admit that the United Kingdom will continue to be important and they need it. And then the attempt by some to press for the activation process of Article 50. that of the Treaty of Lisbon is as quickly as possible is also a reflection of this institutional impasse. But the European Union is also currently experiencing a social crisis and a profound crisis of values. It's not by chance, sirs. Members, who are currently at one of the lowest points in terms of social rights since World War II, having been more forceful in recent years ( and Portugal has been a good example ), a levelling below social and labour rights. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u176	These are examples: fierce attacks on collective bargaining and labour rights, labour reforms that have completely distorted the working model for a low wage model, subcontracting and few rights;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u177	... in the name of market competition, all benefits are given to companies, forgetting the workers, who actually create wealth; increasing unemployment, with a focus on young unemployment, and social disprotection; reducing the values of reforms and pensions; increasing the age of reform; emigration, as has not been seen in a whole generation for many decades. Finally, a failure of the social state is being exploited by anti-immigration and xenophobic campaigns, attempting to create a supposed external enemy, witnessing a growth, in some countries with more force, of groups and extreme-right parties. Finally, we can say that the European Union is experiencing a time of humanitarian crisis, not only by the recent wave of refugees from countries such as Syria but also by the fact that social inequalities are increasing. There is a social conscience that is being lost and also, here, the European institutions have not been able to respond. We see the question of refugees and all the measures that have been planned to help resolve the problem. Sometimes and again we are faced with conclusions from the European Council which reiterate at each meeting that the mechanisms for relocation and the division of reception of Member States to refugees must be strengthened. But also at each meeting that passes these conclusions are never put into practice, with the European Union reaching the point of agreeing with Turkey, which does not solve any problems, as well as having helped legitimize a regime that has received refugees at its borders with extreme violence. If we have always been faced with a regime which, in this case, raised some consensual doubts about its democratic character, today these doubts should be increasingly dispelled with the recent reports of those who do not agree with the regime, of restrictions on freedom of the press, and finally an increasingly latent democratic deficit in Turkey. So, Mr. Members, at a time of analysis of the future presidency and of what was achieved in 2015, it is up to us to think seriously and deeply about the scenario before us. The enlarged European Union, whose latent divergences are beginning to come to the top ( Brexit was the extreme case of these divergences), is unable to respond with solidarity and humanitarianism not only to the thousands of refugees who ask us but also to the aspirations of their peoples, whipped by successive austerity plans. Also here the differences and differences begin to crumble. Let us look at the sanctions process in Portugal and Spain. The good student, apparently, already needs to be punished. He who, in the former government, all the measures beyond the troika were now praised, which has a political configuration that tries to reverse the path of austerity, is no longer the pleasure of Schäuble and Dijsselbloem. This is a European Union in which there are supposed to be the same rules for all, but some do not need to comply because France is France and so Portugal will be Portugal...!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u178	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u179	I will finish, Mr. President. It is a European Union which has never given its citizens a voice in order to say, step by step, about the treaties and the mechanisms which have such an influence on their lives. at a time of clear crisis, if we do not stop to analyze this scenario, to give voice to the citizens, to end the concentration of powers at the centre and if we do not stop legitimizing bodies whose legitimacy is not democratic, we will not follow the right path.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u180	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u181	Mr President, I conclude with the following sentence: that the European Union had the capacity to respond to some of the crises it is facing today, this would be the time when the rules and treaties that legitimise sanctions would be repealed. Otherwise, it is confirmed that the European Union, rather than being the space to solve any European problem, constitutes the space of the greatest crisis in Europe itself. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In recent weeks we have had good news of the budget performance of Portugal. The country is on the right path to eliminate the excessive deficit. But in recent weeks too, we have had bad news for Europe, in which they persist and reinforce a set of crises. The political and institutional constraints of the European Union were highlighted in the defence of the financial stability of the euro area and in the capacity to re-establish conditions for economic growth and employment. An unprecedented migration and refugee crisis has been highlighted, in which hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people flee their countries, victims of war, poverty, whose responses are ad hoc, Member State to the Member State. There was Brexit and the growth of anti-European forces, generating extremisms that reinforce a challenge for the European project, a terrorist threat that seems to be increasing both within and outside the European Union and a climate around it increasingly uncertainly, such as the situation in the last few days in Turkey. In the face of all these crises, it is incomprehensible to see a Europe so little focused on affirming itself as a great global actor, especially when it faces so many crises that they demand such urgent responses, and so focused on punishing those who do not have the same vision of growth and social cohesion, insisting on the application of sanctions, above all when they are unfair and counterproductive. They are unfair in the face of all the sacrifices that the Portuguese have made over the past few years and counterproductive considering the path that Portugal is making. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the sanctions are applied in the name of credibility, it is the credibility of the European project and of the institutions that produce these inadequate and unjust political decisions that are at issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u184	I ask you to conclude. Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u185	I will now finish, Mr President. It is not understood, except for procedural and technocratic blindness, that sanctions are applied to Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to conclude, the commitment of the Socialist Party is to contribute to a better Europe, a more transparent, more social and more focused European Union in the concerns and protection of citizens, not for a European Union focused on punishing a country and a people who have made so many sacrifices in the past four years, harming their present and their future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need to be the government to close these debates. Since there is still time, I do not know whether the PSD Parliamentary Group still wants to intervene. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u187	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u188	I have the floor to speak to the Secretary of State for European Affairs. The Secretary of State for European Affairs — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to use the short time available to me for the European Monetary Fund, I mean that the Socialist Party and the socialist governments have always defended — just as we are in favour of providing the euro area with a budget — the creation of the European Monetary Fund and when the ESM (European Stability Mechanism) was created, our prospect was already that of its existence. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, with regard to the vote on sanctions, the Commission resolution is very clear. There is one line in the Commission's resolution: what is at stake in the Eurogroup and then in the Ecofin is the voting mode. In fact, the legal services of the various institutions have spoken on the subject and not all have the same interpretation. This is the first time that this situation is taking place. There is some conflict between the legal basis given by the Treaty of Lisbon and that given by the Budget Treaty, which refers to the Treaty of Lisbon. hence the indefinition in the form of a vote in the Eurogroup and Ecofin. at this time, there will certainly be more disturbances with regard to the possible suspension of the structural funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u189	The debate on this item on the agenda is thus concluded. There was agreement between the various benches so that we could move forward with the discussion of two petitions still in the morning, since we have a very busy agenda during the afternoon. Thus, we opened with petition No 526 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Luliia Voroshylova and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to grant the treatment and rehabilitation of some Ukrainian military and volunteers who were injured in the armed conflict in Ukraine, in public or private hospitals in Portugal, in number and in accordance with the existing possibilities. Mr. Jorge Machado, who is not currently in the Chamber, is hereby inscribed and I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr. José Cesario, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we are discussing a petition from Mrs Luliia Voroshylova's initiative and some 4,000 subscribers whose aim is to appeal to the Portuguese State to support the treatment and rehabilitation of several Ukrainian military and voluntary combatants, wounded in the armed conflict in Ukraine, Portugal, in number and in accordance with the existing possibilities. The reasons behind this petition are essentially based on the following aspects: firstly, the fact that these military men have challenged their own physical integrity and put their lives at risk to contribute to the peace and integrity of Ukraine, to peace in Europe and to prevent us from having another wave of refugees to invade Europe. Secondly, it is also based on the fact that there are already several countries such as the United States, Germany, Croatia, Slovenia, Poland, Israel, the United Kingdom, which develop programmes that aim exactly to receive these soldiers and provide them with treatment in their hospital services. Finally, it is still based on the fact that Portugal has known, about two decades ago, to receive in an exemplary way a significant Ukrainian community, which, in fact, has been significantly integrated into Portuguese society. Thus, taking into account these suggestions, these proposals that we are considering today, we have started to discuss this discussion with the following aspects: firstly, the importance of the Ukrainian community in Portugal, which, as I said recently, is a community that has been able to integrate and has made a fundamental contribution to the development of our country; secondly, the excellent relations with this country, with whom we have developed great proximity and who has also collaborated with the CPLP itself, and finally the fact that we have a spirit of solidarity in Portugal that has been able to affirm at international level in various contexts and that has made an essential contribution to increasing our prestige in the world. In view of these aspects, we agree that a clear sign of cooperation and solidarity is given to the Ukrainian people, to the Ukrainian military. We note that the Portuguese Government has already expressed, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in various circumstances, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, that it may follow up existing protocols with Ukraine in order to safeguard this claim.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u191	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u192	This claim is of course a major challenge to the coordination capacity between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence itself. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u193	Mr José Cesario, the congratulations given by the President and the Bureau are due to the fact that today is the day of your birthday. [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u194	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u195	Mrs. Isabel Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, in a more personal way, to congratulate Mr José Cesario on his birthday. I would begin to appreciate this petition for the recognition of the most fundamental justice of the object it proposes: the provision of health care to military and voluntary combatants of the Ukrainian army, who at this time face particularly difficult conditions in the face of the conflict in Ukraine. It is good to remember that this is an objective of the most basic solidarity between States at a time of particular shortage and difficulty. We must not forget the large number of victims that this confrontation has already caused. So far there are about 10 000 dead, 20 000 injured and more than 1 800 000 displaced. It is a vast human mole in suffering to which we all have a duty to put an end to or diminish. The Portuguese Government has already expressed, as has been said here, its will and is currently developing a process of articulation between various ministries to ensure that this claim is met quickly and that some of the wounded military and voluntary combatants can be assisted in Portuguese hospitals. But the appreciation of this petition must also take us further. And it must lead us to a call for the most complete and complete fulfilment of the principles enshrined in the Helsinki Final Act and for a rapid and definitive ceasefire, without which it will be impossible to comply with the Minsk agreements and find a negotiated and peaceful solution to this conflict, which, like all conflicts, deserves a rapid end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u197	Mr João Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion of this petition takes place one year after it has, in legal terms, dropped to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for analysis, and it is done in two moments, first, with the presentation of the report drawn up by Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila and now in plenary. I would like to recall the figures mentioned here by my colleagues: this conflict, since 2014, has already made 10 000 more victims, especially civilians — what is to be regretted — and millions of refugees. The purpose of this petition is duly identified and specified and more than 4000 citizens brought this petition here to Parliament, requesting that the Portuguese State support the rehabilitation of Ukrainian military wounded in the conflict in Ukraine. Prior to the presentation of the Commission's opinion, the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group questioned the Government about what programme was planned to assist these military and was aware of the framework that other European countries had defined and of the implementation and implementation of these same programmes. The answer, which was given in February, was that, in fact, other countries, particularly England, would already be helping these former soldiers and that, in the Portuguese case, discussions with the Ministry of Health and other ministries were developing to see what kind of support these same people could be given. I would also like to highlight what has been said by other colleagues: helping these wounded soldiers in combat is a palliative. If the problem is not solved in Ukraine and Russia fails to comply with the Minsk II Agreement, Europe will continue to have these problems, also with the possibility of more refugees coming from Ukraine to the European countries. Therefore, it is also this call, as Mrs Isabel Santos has said, for this road map to be respected by Russia and all the parties involved. Finally, I wanted to highlight the Ukrainian community in Portugal. Many came in the late 1990s, they were well integrated, they also have great responsibilities for the growth and performance of the Portuguese economy. It is a community that deserves our support and affection and therefore the Portuguese State should do its utmost to help these wounded former soldiers, some of them, to have their recovery in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u200	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the assessment of this petition cannot be dissociated from the situation in Ukraine. We do not follow the idea that there are merits in one of the parts of a war like what we see in Ukraine. There is clearly an extremist turn in Ukraine and the accusation is made to both sides of this conflict, which is clearly also a conflict against the Ukrainian people and against their ability to live in democracy. Foreign interference, withdrawal of democratic spaces, attack on freedoms, we have seen all this in Ukrainian space. Therefore, the position that the Left Block takes before this petition is the same as it has assumed before the whole history of this conflict: all solidarity with the Ukrainian people, so that they may freely express their opinion about their destiny, but the attack on any foreign interference that occurs in their state. Having said this, we, BE, cannot follow the assumptions of this petition. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u202	To intervene, it is the turn of Mr Jorge Machado of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u203	Mr President, I am sorry, but I could not intervene at the right time because there is currently a meeting of the Ethics Sub-Commission, which called for my participation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through petition No. 526 of the previous Parliament and under the title of support for the rehabilitation of Ukrainian military, 4515 petitioners request the Assembly of the Republic to grant the treatment and rehabilitation of certain military and voluntary combatants of the Ukrainian army injured in the armed conflict in Ukraine in public or private hospitals in Portugal. The CFP does not ignore that many of the petitioners, but their totality, are well-intentioned and intend to help compatriots, but we cannot ignore that the petition refers to a position in the conflict in Ukraine. We cannot and do not want to ignore that the conflict in Ukraine is deeply linked to NATO's imperialist offensive on a escalation of conflict and war that matters to be stopped. We do not ignore and here we denounce that in this conflict there are fascist forces which, with the support of NATO and the European Union, pursue Jews and communists, as the Nazis did, so support could never be destined for these forces which must fight with determination. I repeat, it is important to fight with determination!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u204	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u205	We want to say that we are in the field of the diplomatic relations of the Portuguese State, so the Government has a decisive word on this subject, and there are not, as far as we know, recent precedents for medical and military aid to other countries in conflict. In fact, with the exception of technical and military cooperation with the PALOPs, it is not customary for a State to provide such support, which in practice means taking a position on the military conflict. If Portugal insists on the way to military support for Ukraine, it will take a position to support the war. The CFP believes that the commitment that the Portuguese State must make is that of defending, without hindrance, peace and not the promotion of a war with very serious consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u206	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u207	The CFP believes that the position of the Government should be that expressed in the Constitution, that of the peaceful resolution of conflicts. To all the hawks of war, who want to promote a war whose size is difficult to calculate, we say that war is not, nor can it be, the solution. at a time when it is still possible to stop the war, it is necessary, with determination, to reaffirm: peace yes, war no. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u208	Mrs. Members, let us discuss together petition No 542 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Submitted by the Committee of Public Services Users of the municipality of Santarém, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to ensure the recruitment of more professionals at Santarém Hospital and health centres, to defend maternity at Santarém Hospital and to express itself against the loss of services and the articulation of quality and proximity health care and resolution projects 327 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — By defending the District Hospital of Santarém in conjunction with primary health care of quality and proximity ( The Greens), 351 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — By improving health care at the hospital in Santarém ( PS ), 440 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the continuation of the health care bet in the Santarém District ( CDS-PP ), 442 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By improving the provision of health care in Lezíria do Tejo ( PCP ) and 446 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of resources at Santarém Hospital and its primary health care network ( BE). For an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for, on behalf of the Greens, to greet the Committee of Users of the Public Services of the municipality of Santarém, not only for dynamizing this petition but also for all the work that has been carried out in defence of public services, particularly in the area of health. As we know, the District Hospital of Santarém covers geographically the populations of the municipalities of Almeirim, Alpiarça, Cartaxo, Chamusca, Coruche, Entroncamento, Rio Maior, Salvaterra de Magos and Santarém, covering as a whole about 200,000 inhabitants. It happens that the hospital restructuring of the previous government was made, of course, in the light of the political conception that the PSD/CDS Government had about the National Health Service, that is, the application of blind cuts in the health sector, the concentration of valences and the closure of services throughout the country, making it difficult to link levels of service provision and, on the other hand, also limiting the access of the population to health care, especially the most distant regions of hospital centers. In addition, in the case of the District Hospital of Santarém, its reclassification as a hospital unit included in Group 1 immediately led the populations, the user commissions and even the autoarchs to manifest themselves against this measure, with fear of any loss of specialties, until, over the years, the growing lack of family doctors and the closure of health extensions in Lezíria had already made it difficult to link the necessary link between primary and hospital health care, with a number of dramatic situations experienced at the level of hospital emergencies in constant growth. High waiting times, with users in monkeys and holding ambulances of firefighter bodies for hours in the hospital were cases that occurred too often. Now, accompanying the petitioners in their objectives, The Greens today bring a legislative initiative to discuss precisely with the purpose of providing the District Hospital de Santarém...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u210	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u211	I'm done now, Mr. President. ... and health centres of Lezíria not only of human resources but also of material means, as well as the guarantee of the defense of the Maternity of the Hospital de Santarém. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u212	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I welcome the petitioners of this initiative. Health in the district of Santarém, whether in the Lezíria do Tejo, or in the Middle Tejo, is worrying and requires urgent measures. The Santarém Hospital, the object of the petition and the projects under consideration, serves a population of about 200,000 people. This is a building of the 1980s and which needs a set of works, especially in the operating block, works that have already been taken over, and well, by the Ministry of Health. In recent times, we have witnessed several and serious news about Santarém Hospital, particularly in relation to the chaotic situations in emergencies, the fears of the population due to the loss of valences and the need to carry out the works already mentioned. In addition, the lack of doctors is a known reality of the region, particularly of family doctors. The National Health Service is a historic heritage of the Socialist Party, but in this region it is not serving the citizens in a commensurate manner, and this is a consensual problem among the autarchs, users and health professionals. It is necessary to ensure the conditions for strengthening the human and material resources of the Hospital de Santarém. With regard to the necessary works in the operating block, we argue that they are initiated and completed in the shortest possible time. thus, we accompany the petitioners of the initiative. We have tabled a draft resolution on this subject. They can count on us to be intransigent in the defense of the National Health Service in the region. We are here to work with everyone and also for, as stated by the Ministry of Health, solving health problems in the region. Health is an essential public service for the sustainable development of the region. Here we will be for this fight and for that fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u214	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed today petition No 542/ XII ( 4. ( a ), from the initiative of the Committee of Users of the Public Services of the Santarém Council, which asks the Government for more health professionals in the area of intervention of the District Hospital of Santarém. It is unanimous the lack of health professionals in some specific areas, as well as the difficulty in fixing these professionals in the most interior regions, outside the large urban centers, and the Santarém district is no exception. The Santarém District Hospital, which dates from the 1980s, provides health care for a population, as mentioned here, of about 200,000 users and, like other hospital units, has over time had some difficulties at the level of human resources, especially in the capture of some specialties, but also in recent years, difficulties at the level of infrastructure, specifically in the operating block. The Grouping of Health Centers of Lezíria, on the other hand, still currently has about 37,000 users without a family doctor. The previous government, the PSD and the CDS, has made a huge contribution to solving these problems. With regard to human resources, in 2015, there was an increase of 6 % of the effectives, specifically with 55 doctors and 341 nurses, and to ensure the financing of the works of the operating block was strengthened the capital of the Hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u217	The recent opening of two new rooms in the operating block alleviates the difficulties, but only partially, so it is necessary to continue the work that has been done, namely the urgency at the beginning and completion of the works of the remaining operating block rooms, to ensure the best and most timely health care for users. In the area of primary health care, Lezíria's ACES (Association of Health Centres ) has made an investment in the training of professionals in recent years, in particular general and family medicine doctors, so it is essential to use this human capital to fix it in the region, where there is a lack of professionals. The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group therefore calls on the Government to take the necessary measures in order to enable health professionals who complete their training in the CAES of Lezíria to strengthen the staff frameworks of this ACES at the end of this period. Finally, Mr. President, Mr. Members, the problems of the district of Santarém, which, moreover, have merited the attention and broad consensus of all the political forces of the district...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u218	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u219	I am concluding, Mr. President. As I was saying, problems have to be seen in an integrated way. It is perhaps the best infrastructure district, we have four hospitals, and therefore it is necessary to continue the effort made in recent years to solve the problems identified and to improve the articulation between the various health units. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u220	It is the turn of Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group to intervene. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to greet the signatories of this petition in defense of the Hospital de Santarém, of their motherhood and of the care that are provided there to the populations, but also drawing attention to the serious problem of the lack of family doctors at the level of primary health care. We are talking about a population of 200 000 users, of nine municipalities, and among which there are, according to official numbers, 34 316 users who do not have a family doctor. What is intended, with this petition, and that the CFP assumes by means of the draft resolution which today puts the vote to the vote, is that, firstly, the total urgency is given to the construction of the new operating block of the Hospital de Santarém, which has long been designed but has not yet been realized. It is also intended that the professionals needed for the Santarém Hospital to be able to perform their functions more effectively, particularly at the level of the specialties, external consultations, which have dramatic delays, seek to recover the approximately 3,500 surgeries identified as necessary, but also to reopen health extensions which have been closed in the area of Lezíria do Tejo, so that users can have access to family physicians, and can thus contribute, of course, to a better service of nearby health care and that this can also help to alleviate the chaotic situation that occurs at the level of emergencies in this hospital unit. Therefore, in our view, the health situation in Lezíria do Tejo presents serious deficiencies that urgently have to be completed and it is in this sense that the PCP, corresponding to the petitioners' claim, presents today a draft resolution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u222	Mr Matias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The District Hospital of Santarém provides hospital care for residents in a large area of the district of Santarém, corresponding approximately to NUTS III, Lezíria do Tejo. There is a population with high aging rates, with specific diseases of this age level requiring very frequent and proximity care. The geographical area covered by the Hospital is also a somewhat dispersed settlement, in some cases marked by very high distances, and extends along the two banks of the Tejo, a river that, in case of fullness, constitutes a barrier difficultly transponible. It has happened several times in the past—and probably one of these days will happen again—with the road between Almeirim and Santarém being cut off, access to the hospital by the populations of the left bank of the Tejo is impossible. In any circumstances, this unique geographical and demographic framework would always make it difficult to provide primary health care in the vicinity, at the level of primary health care. But the problem is further compounded by the systematic lack of family doctors and the inability to form in the region at the pace that would be necessary. As it is understood, the enormous and recurrent difficulties in primary health care inevitably impact on the increased effort required by the District Hospital of Santarém, first and foremost on the pressure to which the emergency service is subject, which runs in large numbers this aging population, very lacking in proximity care. In periods of greater flow, either by very cold or, as now, by very heat, the services even go into rupture, with monkeys through the corridors and many hours of waiting in the service. These episodes of emergency, or even emergency, are faced by experienced but insufficient professionals. Worse: too many times, they are faced by precarious professional teams, employers hired to external companies. in these circumstances of precariousness and work instability, only by miracle the teams can achieve the levels of cohesion indispensable to whom, at each time, has to solve critical problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u224	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u225	I will finish, Mr. President. Moreover, the entire hospital suffers from a lack of professionals and therefore these situations explain the fears of the populations, well expressed in the petition we now appreciate and whose petitioners we greet. the recommendations we have made in our draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u226	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u227	It is necessary to move from the study to realisation, either from a new basic urgency, or from the recommendations that we present here, because the populations of Lezíria do Tejo demand it and, Mr President, above all, because the populations deserve it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u228	To conclude the debate on this item on the agenda, Mr Nuno Serra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to leave a special compliment to the petitioners and start by referring to the importance of the Santarém District Hospital for the whole region and, above all, to the more than 200 000 users that this Hospital covers. For this reason, I congratulate not only those who have brought here this petition and these concerns but also all who have worked in this institution over these years, be doctors, nurses, collaborators in the most various areas, who have done a work of excellence, making this national reference unit in many of its valences. We leave a warning to those who are responsible for hospital governance, both central and local: it is important to motivate and prepare the new ones who enter to maintain the level of excellence that marked the history of the Hospital de Santarém. With regard to the petition, it is fair to mention the concern in the hiring of doctors and this contract has been pressing, either at the hospital level or at the level of primary health care, either by the previous care, or by this protection. The PSD has found and accompanied the numerous competitions for the hiring of doctors who have become empty, not because governments want it but because there are no doctors to fill the vacancies and, when there are, prefer other locations or other conditions. In fact, there is now an authorization for the opening of a competition for 23 new doctors, which we hope will have a much happier end than those that happened in the past. As for the termination of maternity, it has already been proven and proved that it has never been equationd. According to official data and sources, whether by the number of deliveries that are carried out there or by the competence and excellence of the gynecology and obstetric team, this service would never be to close but, yes, to be a service of national excellence. For the PSD, in addition to many other concerns, there is one that has to be a priority right now. It is the question of the operating block of the District Hospital of Santarém and, in this sense, we accompany the diplomas that show a great apprehension here and that we must press the government to start the works as quickly as possible. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u230	I remember the ladies. Members who are running elections to independent external entities until 16 hours : five judges of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Economic and Social Council, the Superior Council of the Magistracy and the State Secret Supervisory Body. We are now interrupting our session, which will be resumed for 15 hours. [[It was 13 hours and 10 minutes.]] [[After the interruption, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u231	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I recall that elections for certain bodies outside the Assembly of the Republic are under way in Conference Room D. Maria II. I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. We will initiate the joint assessment of petition No 32 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend Article 37. o -A of the Staff Regulations to allow a fair retirement scheme for teachers and draft resolutions 438 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — It proposes a transitional scheme for the retirement of teachers and educators with a view to creating justice in the retirement scheme ( The Greens) and 441 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the possibility of retirement to 40 years of discounts without penalties and the application of retirement schemes relating to specific situations ( CFP ). As you know, each parliamentary group has 3 minutes to intervene. To open the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the more than 25,000 petitioners who, motivated by an initiative of the National Federation of Teachers — FENPROF, have submitted a petition to the Assembly of the Republic requesting a fair retirement scheme for teachers, ensuring that this retirement is indispensable for generational renewal. On the basis of this petition and considering this claim to be absolutely legitimate and fair, the Greens decided to present a legislative initiative, more specifically a draft resolution, in order to propose to this House a recommendation to the Government for a solution. Like all the ladies and gentlemen. Members know and I think that no one will have the courage to say otherwise, teachers are an essential element in promoting the quality of teaching and having motivated teachers or demotivated teachers makes all the difference, whether we want or not, in the quality of our teaching and our education. It happens, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and it is not new to anyone either, the policies promoted by the previous Government — not only by the previous Government, but to a large extent by the former PSD/CDS Government — generated the greatest attacks on teachers in Portugal. I am not only talking about unemployment levels, career devaluation, the promotion of job precariousness, wage cuts, but I am also talking about the increase in working hours, the increase in the number of students per class and classes per teacher, and I am also talking about the way in which they have taken time for education, with a greater bureaucratic burden. This, of course, has concrete reflections and it is recognized that the wear of these professionals is a reality and these policies have encouraged this wear. I wanted to recall here a study conducted by researchers from the Higher Institute of Applied Psychology, which revealed that more than 30% of the surveyed teachers had a physical and mental exhaustion caused by the conditions of their working life. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the rejuvenation of teachers has not been facilitated either by the policies pursued. in this sense, what the Greens have come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic is the creation of an adequate and fair retirement scheme. We therefore propose that today the Assembly of the Republic should recommend that the Government begin negotiations in the first place with a view to establishing a pension scheme for teachers and educators.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u233	You would like to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u234	... — I shall finish, Mr President — with the only requirement of the 36 years of service and discounts and, secondly, create an immediate transitional regime which enables the voluntary retirement of teachers and educators with 40 or more years of service and discounts. It is of the most fundamental justice. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u235	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet FenPROF, who has stimulated this petition as well as the tens of thousands of signatories who bring this issue to our attention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not fair or even socially acceptable that, after 40 years of work, someone — be a teacher, child educator, textile worker, operational assistant, electrician, nurse — be forced to work to survive until he reaches the legal age of reform, in a frame marked by a high level of physical and emotional wear, subject to intense work rhythms and when he has already completed his 40 years of discounts. We understand that the long-contributory careers of all sectors of production and activity mean discounts during a lifetime of work and should be duly recognised, in particular as regards their associated rights, whether in terms of age of retirement, or in terms of the right to a decent retirement and pension. We always advocate the valorisation of long-term contribution careers, as it is enshrined in the legal systems of other countries. For this reason, today we bring an initiative that aims to respond to the problems posed by teachers and educators of childhood, who join a long career contributing to a reality that is known and has been signalled several times, of physical and psychological wear sense throughout their time of service, but also extensible to all other workers who have more than 40 years of discounts. We understand that it is of the utmost justice that there is no penalty for workers who want to retire after they have completed these 40 years of work, just as we understand that the specific work reality experienced by many workers, including teachers and educators of childhood, in the performance of their duties, is also taken into account for the purpose of reform. For this reason, we propose to consider the anticipation of the age of access to old age pensions, without penalties, for all workers who have completed 40 years of discounts, to assess the impact of the elimination of special retirement schemes, and to consider the application of specific retirement schemes, in particular to public administration workers, including teachers, identifying the measures and conditions necessary for their implementation. The fight is decisive for the defense and conquest of rights and it is exactly in this struggle that we are and that we will be. This is the way we will continue to go, with the workers and with the people. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u237	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs. Germana Rocha, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the nearly 28 000 signatories of this petition, whose first subscriber is FenPROF. The purpose of the petition under discussion is to create a fair retirement scheme for teachers and the corresponding generational renewal. It proposes the request for the voluntary retirement of all teachers with 40 years of service without any penalty, through the adoption of a transitional regime, also seeking that this scheme be in force and making possible the early retirement from the time of service provided, beginning negotiations with a view to the establishment of a scheme whose only requirement is the provision of 36 years of service and allowing early retirement to teachers who complete 30 years of service. This is a recurring discussion, through the assessment of various petitions and draft resolutions, including those now presented by the CFP and the Green Party. In fact, the PSD considers the mission of the determining teaching class in the present and future of our generations, recognizing that its performance results in physical, psychological and emotional wear and therefore deserves careful and adequate analysis of its specificities. However, and contrary to what the left parties claim, who revoked the special retirement scheme for teachers of 1. the cycle and educators of childhood was the Socialist Party,... [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u239	... in 2005, in the Government of Eng. José Socrates, followed by various transitional regimes and legislative amendments leading to the convergence of public service and social security schemes. It is precisely this legislation of 2005 that the current Minister of Finance invokes to prevent the creation of a special retirement scheme for teachers. The PSD, as a responsible party, cannot have a simplistic and hasty reading on this issue, but rather a serious, rigorous and comprehensive position based on the principles of equity, justice and sustainability of social protection systems, which is why on 8 June it presented an urgent proposal for debate on social security reform, totally rejected by the left-wing majority, which is still a contradiction with the positions now taken here. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't just deal with the tree and leave the forest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u240	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I welcome the petitioners, recognizing the concerns presented. The petition submitted and the draft resolutions of the Green Party and the Portuguese Communist Party affect the creation of a special pension scheme for teachers. Indeed, in 2005 they coexisted with the general retirement scheme, of the Staff Regulations of Appeal, approved by Decree-Law No 498 / 72, about five dozen special schemes. With Decree-Law No. 229 / 2005 a work of convergence was done within the General Box of Submissions (CGA ) in order to eliminate or restrict these special regimes. For the remaining special schemes, the option was in 2005 that they should be adapted in order to gradually converge to the rules of the general social security regime. in this sense, all the measures that have been adopted since 2005 under the currently so-called convergent social protection regime have been aimed at bringing together the system of the General Pension Fund with the general social security regime, as well as eliminating special retirement schemes, which are a source of constant financial erosion of the pension system. This objective is also reflected in the XXI Constitutional Government Programme. There are compelling reasons for maintaining this situation. The creation of another special retirement scheme could have undesirable effects on the sustainability of the pension system. Moreover, the perpetuation of this special pension access scheme will affect not only the General Pension Fund but also social security, since workers registered after 2005 are already covered by the social security system rather than the General Pension Fund. over the course of time, there have been advances and retreats on the matter in appreciation that have always based on regimes of exceptionality. Teachers and questions relating to their career and retirement scheme cannot be treated as exceptional issues. The dignity and appreciation of the teaching class is not consistent with these processes, which are often generators of injustice. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognises that the teaching profession is of a high level of wear, given its specificity, but considers that it is through the career status of educators and teachers that these matters must be thought, discussed and decided upon.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u242	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u243	Mr. President, I'm almost done. Mrs. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group well recognizes the growing demands of the teaching profession and is fully aware of the wear that teachers are subject to. We cannot and must not face these problems by creating new exceptionalities in the retirement scheme, but rather by adapting vocational training to the different phases of the teaching career. At this stage, we must equalize the creation of a legal framework that enables the allocation of other functions to older and older teachers until they reach retirement age.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u244	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u245	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group leaves a word of confidence and recognition to petitioners and all teachers in our country: it contains with us for solutions of rigor, integrated and always looking for the right form. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u246	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I greet the petitioners, the petitioners, the teachers, the teachers, the educators and the educators who are covered in this petition, which aims at a fair retirement scheme for teachers, which is also, and is true, a guarantee of generational renewal, which is indispensable. The existence of long-contributory careers represents two problems for our society: a problem for the lives of those who have worked so many years, have reached advanced ages and continue to work so as not to be penalized in their reform—and this is a question of social injustice—and another problem for the labour market, which is thus prevented from making a generational renewal, because it makes it difficult for young people to enter the labour market. For this reason, the Left Block, long ago, has defended and proposed in this House that it is possible for workers to retire without penalties at the end of 40 years of discounts, regardless of their age. This is the general context, it is the framework in which we look at this issue. But, if this is true, in the case of teachers, in the case of educators and educators, we have an even more serious situation: this social injustice adds problems that lead to the attack of the teaching condition, such as the increase in the number of students per class, the increase in leisure time, the lack of resources in schools, the lack of multidisciplinary teams, the lack of support teachers, the lack of hourly credits, the less democratic management in schools. This is a large set of attacks on the teaching condition, which has worsened the motivation and conditions for each teacher and each teacher to do their job. And this is a problem. At the same time, we cannot increase the retirement age and withdraw conditions from teachers and teachers to practice their profession, and in the teaching profession they have greatly reduced their working conditions. This is a path that has to be reversed, but we already realize that it will be more difficult and it will take a little longer to reverse many of these questions. All the proposals to reduce the age of reform that came to this House in this legislative session have unfortunately been dropped. We know that this path has to be reversed, we know that a new path is needed, and the Fá-CL Left Block will be with teachers and teachers, with all teachers and all educators. We have already begun, there is already a political commitment to reducing the number of students per class, there are already a number of commitments to improve the working conditions of teachers and educators in schools. But we want to do more, we want to do better and we will certainly do it with all the teachers and teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u248	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall, of course, begin by welcoming the petitioners who have signed petition No 32 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) from the initiative of FENPROF, which proposes a fair retirement scheme for teachers. It is important to remember, as has already been mentioned here, that it was in 2006 in the Government of Socrates, and through Decree-Law No 229 / 2005, in the context of the convergence between the CGA and the social security system, that multiple bonus schemes and exceptions to the pension system have been eliminated. In total, 24 schemes were revoked, including those of the Directorate-General for Prison Services, the officials of the judiciary, the forest guards, the Institute of Social Integration, the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), the staff of the tolls, the legal medicine, as well as that of children's educators and teachers of basic and secondary schools, perhaps the largest group of people covered by this revocation. It is also natural that in this demand for a minimum common multiple between the two systems some injustices have been committed in the face of the specificities of some professional groups and their own requirements, among which teachers and educators of childhood will be an example. We know how to be real, between this group, the prevalence of burnout and, defending the CDS, a central role of teachers in the success of teaching-learning in the classroom, as well as the authority of the teacher for the full and recognized exercise of his function, we cannot in any way become insensitive to the fundamental matter of this petition: a fair retirement regime for teachers and that promotes the best education service for students, who are always the central element in the development of educational policy. However, there are two issues on which we must deal with under the penalty of having a schizophrenic and irresponsible speech on changes to the pension scheme. Firstly, we cannot ignore, even for a matter of justice within the public service itself, all the other groups I mentioned, which also had their schemes revoked, and only meet the teachers' case simply because perhaps they will have greater union or claim power. It does not seem serious to us to carry out a change in this dimension and impact only on the part of the education sector and not to analyze a broader picture of equity also within the public service. Secondly, having a general understanding of the risks of the sustainability of the current pension system, it makes no sense to propose an amendment which, given the number of teachers concerned, will certainly have a large impact on this system in the present and medium term without a careful analysis of this impact. There is even the risk that in a populist attitude these changes will be granted, but then they will not have the pensions to pay exactly those to whom they want to benefit. Therefore, for the CDS, this discussion only makes sense, it is only responsible and consequent in the context of the discussion of social security reform, which we have tried to start on a gradual basis and which you have opted for. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u250	It is in this context, then, that we are available to consider these changes, as well as those of other professional groups that I mentioned and which, perhaps, deserve analysis, because only by seriously discussing social security is that we can ensure that any change is made with sustainability and predictability for the careers and expectations of the public function. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u251	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this final speech I would like to stress from now on the fairness of the petition we are discussing and the fairness of the CFP proposals. The proposals presented in this initiative, of course, cover a much wider range of workers than only teachers or children's educators, but we must not fail to underline here, especially in view of the reality and the socio-laboral devaluation of the teaching profession, the importance that this has for teachers. This proposal presented by the CFP has an element of importance at the level of social justice for those who, at the end of 40 years of discounts, intend to reform without any kind of penalties, but it is also a proposal that contributes to the improvement of the quality of public school education, and this is a reality that is not disconnected from the proposal presented by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u253	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u254	I conclude, Mr. President. at the end of 40 years of those who have given much to the country, of those who have produced wealth for the country, of those who have made their discounts for public social protection systems, it is more than fair that, at the end of that time, these workers, including teachers, children's educators and many others, have, in fact, the right to reform without any kind of penalty. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u255	Mr President, will you excuse me from using the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u256	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u257	Mr President, I did not want what I am going to say to be somehow understood as a criticism to the Bureau, because it is not. The Bureau acted accordingly, as it always does. I think we should think - and perhaps it is a challenge that must be launched to the parliamentary groups and to the Bureau - in the form of people who come to see the discussion of petitions can do so in full. When people entered the galleries, the discussion was already under way, which means that the petitioners who made it necessary to attend the discussion lost a part of it. I know that some have come from far away, as from Portalegre, purposely to attend this discussion. This is perhaps a reflection that we have to make, but I do not want to leave the reference at this moment of the discussion of the petition where, in particular, this matter has happened. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u258	Madam Member, I recognize the relevance of your concern and even regret that it may have happened to people who have moved to Parliament who have not had the opportunity to attend the part of the discussion on the motivation that brought them. I believe that we must consider this in the Conference of Leaders, in view of future agendas. In any case, I would like to thank you for your comment, Mrs Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the fourth item on our agenda, which is part of the joint debate on petition No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Maria de Lurdes of Jesus Leite Ribeiro and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to improve the conditions of treatment of patients, in particular in the care of emergency services, at the Hospital de Guimarães, and draft resolutions 174 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide the Hospital de Guimarães with adequate conditions for its normal functioning ( BE), 437 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent work in the emergency services of Our Lady of Oliveira Hospital in Guimarães ( CDS-PP ), 439 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — By conditions of care and work worthy of the emergency service of the Hospital de Guimarães ( The Greens), and 443 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By valuing and strengthening health care at the Hospital da Senhora da Oliveira, Guimarães ( PCP ), in general. I ask for the understanding of the honourable Members. Members for the fulfilment of the times, and for this discussion there is the time available for 2 minutes for each parliamentary group. Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners who come to defend the Hospital de Guimarães and all its services and who require dignified conditions of care in the emergencies. This petition well mirrors the concern of the populations of Upper Ave. There are about 350 000 inhabitants who are potential users of the National Health Service and the Hospital de Guimarães. I also wanted to take this opportunity to greet the professionals of the Hospital de Guimarães, who, despite all the difficulties and taking into account their precarious situation, seek to ensure a quality service to the users of the National Health Service. This petition raises three absolutely central questions: first, the lack of professionals and the precariousness in which many continue to be in the Hospital de Guimarães ; second, the need for investment in the means and facilities of the Hospital, from now on in the emergencies ; third, but not least, this legacy that still exists in the Ordinance No. 84 / 2014 of the previous Government, a true Pokémon that reaches the corners of the Hospital de Guimarães and constantly threatens the devaluation and loss of valence in this Hospital. This heritage we do not want it and we want it to be quickly reverted. For this reason, the Left Block presents a draft resolution that seeks to guarantee the maintenance of current valences, the strengthening of medical, assistant and technical personnel and intervention in the media and facilities, to end patients in corridors and with ambulances in line of waiting in emergencies. There must be urgent measures to ensure that the Hospital de Guimarães fulfils its mission, which is to provide quality services to the users of the National Health Service in Upper Cávado and, in particular, throughout the region of Guimarães. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u260	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that the CDS accompanies the more than 4500 Vimarans who rightly requested the urgent conversion of the urgency of the Hospital de Guimarães, to whom I now greet and congratulate this initiative, leaving a word of recognition to the workers and to the administration of the Hospital de Guimarães for the work done with some adversities. The Hospital de Guimarães is over 20 years old, and it is clear that wear and wear of the years and the intensive use of facilities and equipment. It adds population pressure, because, as you know, this hospital serves not only Guimarães but also Fafe, Head of Basto, Mondim de Basto, Vizela, Family, Felgueiras and Celorico da Basto. Therefore, population pressure is obvious and enormous. In addition to this state of advanced physical wear, either of the facilities or of the equipment, it is common to enter the urgency of the hospital, as Mr. Deputies said recently, and we see people in the corridors waiting to be hospitalized, people in maces waiting to be cared for, or people waiting for more damage to the complementary means of diagnosis to be repaired. Indeed, the CDS has been warning about this problem for several years and has repeatedly emphasized the need to urgently recover, at least immediately, the urgency of the hospital, not only physically but also re-equipment it with more and more modern equipment. Although the former Government has created the necessary conditions for the implementation of the works claimed by the petitioners, which we follow, the truth is that, almost a year back, nothing has happened and the works in the hospital are resisting to begin. Having said this and ending up, Mr President, in order to fulfil the time available, the CDS recommends to this majority that it give shape to promises that it will not tire out, in particular with regard to the miracle of economic recovery with the use of European funds, and that it therefore take the legislative and administrative measures necessary to carry out the essential works of remodeling the urgency of the Hospital de Guimarães, both physically and at the level of equipment. We look forward, with the populations, to seeing the Hospital de Guimarães' works. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u262	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Greens, I welcome the thousands of subscribers who, through this petition, have engaged in defending the Hospital de Guimarães and all its services, especially those who are here with us today and who have come from so far to follow our work. The Hospital da Senhora da Oliveira, in Guimarães, has long been in need of works in the emergency service, but, despite the various and constant announcements that have been made over the years, the truth is that we arrived in 2016 and nothing has been done. The urgency remains in real chaos, the space for this service remains very small, without conditions for those who work in it and without conditions for the users, who wait long hours to be cared for. It is recalled that, in addition to the population living in the municipality of Guimarães, this hospital still responds to the populations of other municipalities, such as Fafe, Head of Basto, Vizela and Mondim de Basto. It is true that the populations were over time demanding works in the emergency service, but rather what came by the hand of the previous government was Portaria No. 82 / 2014, which declassified the Hospital Center of the Vale do Ave, withdrawing from it services and specialties. In fact, this door, to be applied in all its dimensions, admitted the closure of several specialties or even the closure of birth blocks, which made no sense, especially when the news noted that in 2015 there was an increase in births at the Hospital de Guimarães. It is therefore clear that this would not take into account the local reality, nor the interests of the population, and the only concern of the PSD and the CDS was to save money at the expense of people's access to health care—and this did not happen only in Guimarães, it happened throughout the country. In the meantime, the new parliamentary framework outside the last legislative elections has already tried to revoke this door, and now it is necessary to respond to the other problems facing the Hospital de Guimarães. in this sense, Les Verdes presents a legislative initiative for the government to initiate rehabilitation works in the emergency service of the Hospital de Guimarães and to contract health professionals in need, thus creating conditions that allow quality care to the populations, because they also have the right to health. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u264	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor. Ms. Carla Cruz ( PCP ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, by welcoming the petitioners present here and the more than 4600 citizens who joined this initiative in defending and valuing the Hospital da Senhora da Oliveira, in Guimarães. I would like to say that it was the initiatives undertaken by users and the dedication of the professionals there who perform functions that have in fact minimized the impact of the harmful measures that successive governments have taken on health, particularly the last government. It was the struggle waged by users, professionals and, above all, your fight against Guimarães, which, together with the new correlation of forces that exists in the Assembly of the Republic out of the elections of 4 October, already allowed to revoke the Ordinance No 82 / 2014, which was so pernicious for the provision of health care in the Hospital of Guimarães, but also a little throughout the country. But very relevant is still the requirement to carry out the work in the emergency service. Today we heard the CDS make a glow here, trying to clear its responsibilities in failing to comply with a resolution adopted unanimously last year, here in the Assembly of the Republic, a resolution which the previous government failed to comply with, today, demanding that what it has not done for four years, on the contrary, has contributed to the destruction and degradation of health care. But I once again said, the CFP Parliamentary Group presents here today a legislative initiative that, if approved, will resolve the problems of the Hospital de Guimarães. That is: that works in the emergency service be started in 2016; that the staff of the Hospital de Guimarães be strengthened; that the conditions of work be improved; and that the unit of care that exists in Heads of Basto is maintained, always so threatened with its closure. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u265	Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners and all health professionals who at the Hospital da Senhora da Oliveira make the day-to-day of the thousands of users of this hospital much better. We have attended a strange debate here, let me say so. The office had harmful consequences, they say, but I remember that, from 2011 to 2015, the hospital hired 91 more doctors, 35 more nurses and 30 more operational assistants; the debt, which was 40 million and in 2011 led suppliers to cut the supply of important medicines to hospital patients, dropped to 0 ; a recapitalisation of EUR 23.3 million was made. In fact, it was this recapitalisation that allowed the opening of the invitation to tender for works in the emergency services of the hospital, also very well-claimed — for 20 years we have claimed in Guimarães for new emergency services – and the project is already being awarded and is being launched for the work. So in 2016, thanks to what was done in 2015 from a financial point of view, it will finally be possible for Guimarães to have a new urgency. So I said, this is a strange debate, but it is a debate that deserves our concern, because if it was from 2011 to 2015, we look to the future with great concern. I am now addressing professionals and petitioners, because we cannot lower our arms. The 2016 Budget is already below 2015. More: this social-communist government has launched for the Guimarães Hospital, as well as for others, new financial obligations—we have the refund of wages, which costs money; we have 35 hours, which is estimated to cost more than 1 million euros for this year only, and I say again, with less budget than in 2015! Therefore, I invite the left-wing parliament that supports this social-communist government, to turn from words to acts and give the Hospital de Guimarães, at least with the same means as it had in 2015, and thus can continue to serve the patients of the municipality of Guimarães better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u267	Mr Luís Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting all petitioners in the person of the first petitioner, and to do so is to welcome their concerns. This petition tells us that it was the health cuts that produced catastrophic results in the urgency of the Hospital de Guimarães. In the past four years, the legacy left to us by the PSD Government and the CDS was in fact a matter of urgency for the opening up of television newspapers in Portugal. They were reported as a hospital without beds, without monkeys, without professionals, with waiting time beyond what was reasonable... The legacy was also a portarium, already spoken today, which declassified the hospital and put in danger fundamental valences, which was not denied by the hospital's successive annual reports, where it is reported that there are fewer doctors, Mr. Deputies, fewer nurses and fewer operational assistants. Faced with the complaints and demands of the users, who have also signed this petition, the PSD and the CDS say that the debate here brings us is a strange debate. Yeah, actually, I don't think it's anything strange; what's weird is what PSD and CDS have done over the past four years. When users complained because of the emergencies, PSD officials said it worked normally; when users complained because of a door, PSD officials said that the door was in force but not to be applied; when users claimed due to insufficient human resources, PSD and CDS officials said that human resources were more than enough. This week Mr President of the Management Board said about the petition, which we are discussing today, that it is no longer right to be, because the demands of the users have already been met. It is true that many of the demands are resolved today. They are resolved by a PS government that refers, in 10 months, to what PSD and CDS have destroyed in four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're revoking the door? Yes, we have. Did we authorize the hiring of more human resources? Yes, we did. In fact, this week there are 13 more doctors whose employment has been authorized. Do we requalify the urgency? Not yet, but in the future this will be done. Does it make sense to discuss this petition? It does, because, if there was no other reason, the mere fact of allowing the difference between the last four years of a PSD and CDS government and the 10 months of PS governance with regard to the defence of Guimarães Hospital is more than enough. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u269	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on our agenda with the joint debate on petition No 519 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — from the Maxipet Lda initiative, represented by Luís Guilherme, requesting the reduction for the minimum rate of VAT applicable on pet food under draft law No 280 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce the VAT rate applicable to pet food products for the intermediate rate ( PAN ), in general, and draft resolution No 447 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the reduction in the VAT rate on pet food products with a view to including this reduction in the State budget for 2017 ( BE). Each parliamentary group has 3 minutes. For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the petitioners who have applied for the reduction, for the minimum rate, of VAT applicable on pet food. The VAT rate currently applicable to pet food products is at a maximum of 23 %. Given the difficulties with which many zoophyll associations, informal animal protection groups and many family groups are discussed to be able to feed the pet animals in charge, the proposal to reduce the VAT rate of these food products for the intermediate rate materializes an important social measure. This amendment would represent a significant saving in the budget of persons holding pets, as well as of all associations which so often replace the role of the State and who work daily with extreme financial difficulties to carry out a mission whose merit we must all recognize. In addition, the fact that in Spain the VAT rate applicable to these products is 10 % means that those who live at the border choose to go to the neighbouring country to buy the same food that could be purchased in Portugal, but at a lower price, resulting from the fact that Spanish traders have a significant margin in setting the price due to the marked difference in taxation between the two States. This difference of 13 % influences the selling price to the public and, of course, has an impact on the economy of our country as it withdraws competitiveness from national trade. In addition to tax revenue obtained to go to Spanish coffers, this situation still encourages, in border areas, the emergence of a parallel economy, and there are reports that Spanish food distributors sell their products in our country without being taxed. No less important, the adoption of this measure represents the path on which food, whether it be of people or animals, should be considered as a basis for survival, making no sense, in such essential matters, to determine discrimination based on tax taxation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u271	Mrs. Members, Mr André Silva spent 2 minutes and 9 seconds and in the electronic panel record negative time of 1 minute, when, as the author of the project, he was assigned 3 minutes to intervene. I ask that the correction be made. Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the petitioners who have applied for a reduction in the VAT rate for pet animals and say that, in our view, the current VAT rate for this purpose is not justified by four essential securities. First of all, it penalizes in a very incomprehensible way for a society like ours who are animal owners and caregivers who constitute essential support for the daily life of many people not only by the emotional ties that are established among them, but also by the essential services that are provided to society, as happens, for example, with guide dogs or animals that are very important in search and rescue or policing missions. Secondly, this high tax incidence severely makes it difficult for many pet caregivers, in particular for protector associations whose commitment, most of the time, is voluntary and which is often threatened by difficulties in providing adequate food due to the weight of their charges. Thirdly, this higher rate — this should be made clear — does not apply to exotic animals or luxury products, but rather to essential food goods for pets and with a relevant social function. Finally, it must be said that there is a marked, incomprehensible difference between the VAT rate in Portugal in this area and the rate in Spain, for example, which naturally leads to parallel economic movements and causes a loss of tax revenue in IRC and VAT on public record in Portugal. For all these reasons, the Left Block Parliamentary Group, aware that it is a decision which has budgetary implications, is also aware that it is a measure which is required for reasons of fiscal rationality, competitiveness of the Portuguese industry and, above all, of justice to pet owners and caregivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u273	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u274	I am concluding, Mr. President. Therefore, the Left Block proposes that an assessment of all the factors involved in reducing the incidence of VAT on pet food products should be initiated as soon as possible, with a view to the possibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u275	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u276	... to include this resolution in the State budget for 2017. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr President, it is true that I still had time, but there is no problem because I'm done.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u277	Mr President, I am very sorry to you because you were on the point of thinking recently about the limitation of time. I'm asking you to make up for my failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u278	Relevant!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u279	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a petition promoted by a company that produces food for dogs and cats and wants to see reduced the VAT rate applicable to their products. A petition signed by nearly 7000 subscribers, which we welcome, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to reduce the VAT rate for pet food from 23 % to 6 %. This should be analysed taking into account the VAT rates currently affecting the various goods and services and more generally within the framework of the tax policy applied in Portugal. Given the universe of goods and services currently taxed at 23 %, it would not be understandable, for the general nature of people, that it would be possible to reduce to 6 % the rate applied to pet food, maintaining at the maximum rate electricity and gas, hygiene products, preserves and compotes of fruits and vegetables, musical instruments and sports practice equipment, equipment intended for the use of solar, wind and geothermal energy, among many others. The normal rate of VAT is very high, strongly penalizing the consumption of citizens with lower incomes. The existence of two other intermediate and reduced VAT rates enables this effect to be mitigated by applying these rates to goods and services of first need. Thus, within the framework of this tax, the CFP understands that the priority should be to reduce the value of the normal rate and to affect the intermediate and reduced rates of goods and services that meet the basic needs of citizens. The reduction in VAT for pet food may be considered in the future and is not a priority. The adoption of a fiscal policy that is fairer and more appropriate to our country's development needs requires decisive action that is not limited to VAT. As the Portuguese remember very well, the former PSD/CDS government imposed in 2013 a brutal tax draw on labour income, which added significant increases in other taxes, while deepening the promotion of economic groups and large companies, due to the reduction in the IRC rate, the allocation of tax benefits and exemptions and the facilitation of aggressive tax planning. The political framework resulting from last October's elections allowed some measures to counter this policy of favouring large capital at the expense of the tax breakdown of workers, pensioners, families and small businesses, measures such as the extinction of the extraordinary overtax of IRS, the reduction of the maximum rate of IMI or the reduction of the VAT of restoration. These are measures such as those we consider to be priority in the current framework. These are measures such as these that enable us to move forward towards a fiscal policy that is fairer and more appropriate to the needs of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u281	Mr Ivan Gonçalves, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet all the authors and signatories of this petition which gave rise to the two legislative initiatives under discussion, one of the Left Block and the other of the NAP. Today, there is a growing awareness of animal welfare issues, and this is a concern that the Socialist Party accompanies. Moreover, the evolution of society is also measured by the way in which it deals with all forms of life, in particular by the dignity it attaches to the relationship with all animals, both those we used to call ourselves as a company, and all others who provide various products indispensable to the life of most Portuguese people. Moreover, the time goes by when sustainability in exploiting the resources that the planet offers us was a minor matter and, despite the many progress that is missing, this has been good news. This same concern, which is reflected in the Government's programme supported by the Socialist Party, enshrines the need to enhance social, environmental awareness and to promote animal welfare, but also refers to the intention that animals should no longer be considered "things" in the Portuguese legal system, which was already publicly confirmed by the current Minister of Justice. It was also because we appreciated the promotion of animal welfare that we voted in favour of the inclusion in the State budget for 2016 of the possibility of veterinary expenditure being deducted from IRS, a proposal that was approved and is currently in force. And we voted in favour because that was a fair and balanced proposal. The proposals that the NAP and the Left Block bring us here today are, however, different from these and should be analysed in the light of what is its framework. in this case, it is proposed to reduce the VAT rate applicable to pet food products. There is, of course, the question of the elimination of revenue for the State that could need to be compensated; however, we do not want to focus only on financial matters because it seems to us that the work that is done in the Assembly of the Republic should not have only and as the only principle to value financial and budgetary matters, especially in such matters. In our view, the reduction in the VAT rate of goods and services should be an exception rather than a rule. It should be an exception justified by reasons of a social, health, educational, cultural or when goods of first need are concerned. Well, we don't think that's the case. And it would be too unfair to approve this measure when we know that a normal VAT rate is applied for part of the food intended for humans. In other words, we could fall into the weirdness of applying a reduced VAT rate to pet feeding when, in relation to human feeding, a normal VAT rate is applied. We are all aware of the cost of having pets and the effort that many Portuguese make so that their animals can have a dignified and comfortable life. Still, the State should not confuse what is essential of what is accessory, until that distinction is already made by law. Foods for the production of animals intended for human consumption, and because they are an essential asset, are already taxed at the reduced rate of VAT. thus, the Socialist Party cannot follow these proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u283	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u284	I'm done now, Mr. President. As the Socialist Party said, in this way, we cannot follow these proposals, and we will therefore vote against them, valuing, as always, the discussion we must make on these issues and the promotion of the dignity of the relationship between people and animals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u285	For an intervention, Mrs Rubina Berardo from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u286	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen : I also begin by welcoming the authors of the petition under discussion. Those with pets know well that this decision comes from a mixture of motivations — of affection and others of a more rational nature. We all know that this decision, which must be made consciously and responsibly, brings a set of costs that exceed food. Depending on the species of animals, we have not only objects suitable for their care, such as cages, collars, products for animal hygiene, but also the costs of vaccines, anti-pleas and deparasitants, finally, an effort that is not smaller but that we all know in advance that can be quite demanding. To reduce the argument of the tax treatment of pet owners to feed does not include the diversity of costs and sacrifices to be considered in hosting a pet. These projects are intended to reduce the VAT rate for pet food products. Based on what arguments? First argument: the difference of 13 % between the VAT rate in Spain ( 10 %) and the VAT rate in Portugal ( 23 %). Well, that argument is not very solid. In this way, almost all products should be reviewed. Animal feed doesn't find any specialty here. If it is confirmed, as the NAP says, that there are Spanish food distributors who sell their products in our country without being taxed, this is a clear mandate for the supervision of the Tax Authority and these proposals under discussion today would not change that supposed reality. Secondly: the competitiveness of Portuguese companies and the employment they create in the production and sale of food products for pet animals. If we are to follow the supposed increase in jobs in the restoration sector, as the Socialist Government argues in the case of the fall in VAT in the restoration, we can expect to sit by the results on the labour market in this area of feed. No one disregards the relevant role of pets in Portuguese families. In fact, it is important not to forget which was the Portuguese party that led the deepening of basic legislation in strengthening animal welfare: the PSD. However, to ignore the always political choice of the products to be included in the list of reduced and intermediate VAT rates is to ignore that tax distribution is made of political choices on the most essential goods to the population. And that is the debate we have today, here, not another. in other countries, Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, with governments congenerous to one of the parliamentary groups that is currently discussing one of the projects, are precisely the food products of pets the first goods to be sacrificed on the altar of tax increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u287	You would like to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u288	I'm done, Mr. President. Let's try to figure out what are the proposals that are under discussion and that would put a lower VAT. But lower than what products? I bring here a very simple supermarket account, to see what products would be at the rate of 23 %, and they are not high luxury products. This is the case with the toilet paper, which is kept with 23 % VAT, is the case with toothbrushes, which is kept with 23 % VAT and also with the toothpaste, which is kept with 23 % VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u289	Mr. Member, the account is long and the time is short.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u290	I wonder if this is fiscal justice. We don't believe that! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u291	Mrs. Members, I inform you that, within 3 minutes, they will close the polls of the elections for independent external bodies. If, perhaps, some Member has not yet exercised his right, please proceed immediately. You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: This petition is part of some assumptions and are assumptions with which, I believe, many will agree. The first is that pets are very important for both families and for the development of a healthy society and, above all, a free society, in which people are free to choose their own lives and make their choices. The second is that the charges with pets often have a substantial weight in the budgets of these same families, and we know well that, as we well know of the sacrifices that families often do in order to be able to pay the charges either with food or, for example, with veterinarian. The third assumption is that a pet is not a luxury. No doubt a pet is not a luxury. But it is also important to realize here that this petition is not about this, it is not about these assumptions; this petition is about the tax treatment to be given to feed pet animals, in particular the VAT to be applied to it. And here we have to look at the VAT tax lists in an integrated way. In fact, it was good for us not only to do so on this issue but on many others, because it is recurrent how to put these matters and look at one given rather than to look at the whole. The truth is that our system has three different rates and the normal rate is not applied to luxury goods, the normal rate is applied to the generality of the goods. For example, goods with a higher rate than the lower rate, specifically with an intermediate rate, are, as has already been said, fruits, fruit, canned, vegetables, margarine. They are certainly not luxury goods and many would even classify them as essential goods. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u293	But I do give another example, which weighs a lot on the family budget and is taxed at the normal rate: clothing and footwear. So is it not absolutely essential that any family, regardless of their income, have, at least, housing, food, clothing and footwear? Oh, my God! Is this not also an absolutely essential expenditure of families? Oh, my God! In some cases, yes, may be luxury goods, but for the generality of families they are certainly not luxury goods, they are essential goods. And they are goods that are also taxed at normal rate and that are, in many cases, must be added to national production. Therefore, I think it is impossible to look at this question would not say with seriousness but with good sense without looking at everything and at all rates and without looking at them in their whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u295	from the CDS, of course, everything that is initiatives to make...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u296	You've wasted your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u297	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying on the part of the CDS, whatever initiatives are to make the table of VAT rates fairer, taking into account the needs of families, and also this issue of pets, of course, we have all the opening up and we will be in favour. As far as matters are concerned, I think we should put them in a little more time and a little more sense. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u298	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens also want to begin by welcoming the petitioners of this petition No 519 / XII ( 4. ( a ) that bring concerns to the Assembly of the Republic regarding the fact that feed is subject to the normal VAT rate, i.e. 23 %. And on this they weave a set of considerations, one of which is that, when we talk about feed, we are talking about products of first need for families and also about associations that host these animals. Looking at the discussion that has already been made here, I think that this petition has, from now on, a merit produced in the debate that took place here, which is to make it clear that this thing of the different VAT rates has much to say to you and this thing of the first necessity also has much to be said to you. Firstly, we have a reduced rate, the minimum, for goods of first necessity, but what was evident in this debate, and in others that have been done in the Assembly of the Republic, is that there are many essential goods which are subject to the normal VAT rate. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this petition is also an additional 'employment' so that we can think of this injustice which is created, of essential products being taxed at the normal rate of VAT, and there are other reduced rates. And, in fact, this should deserve our consideration. Now, what do the Greens understand? The Greens understand that the moment of appreciation of the State budget is always the right time for us to materialize this thought. And, therefore, this bill and this draft resolution end up being a little uncontextualized about what will happen in the coming months of September, October and November. That is where I believe that we should launch this discussion and, indeed, the Greens are committed that this matter of feed should necessarily come into this discussion, but also others which have arrived at the Assembly of the Republic and which have been the subject of proposals by the Greens, in particular equipment for energy efficiency, the reduction of VAT in electricity and gas and also in some human foods which are outside the reduced rate. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a reflection that we have to make and, of course, to materialise, always in the sense of greater justice, because this issue of taxes is also an instrument that we use for the kind of development and society we want to promote. And that's what we have to think about when we make these divisions between the different VAT rates. Deep down, this is what the Greens would like to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u300	For a second and, necessarily, short intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been said here that reduced or intermediate VAT rates should apply to essential goods, to goods of first need, to priorities. Well, all right, ladies. Members, for most families, and they are not so few in Portugal, who have pets the feeding of animals is considered an essential good, a good of first necessity. Why? Because many Portuguese consider pets as an integral part of their family aggregate. On the other hand, it is also important to say that associations which, for years, have replaced the State with 23 % VAT. Another argument that was presented here and which is interesting is that reduced rates should be a clear exception. Mr. Ivan Gonçalves, I agree! In the discussion of the next State Budget, I would like to hear this argument from the Socialist Party when we discuss the tax exemption for Tauromachic artists. [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u302	Mrs. Members, we conclude the joint assessment of petition No 519 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of Bill No 280 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), in general and draft resolution No 447 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). We move on to point 6 of our agenda, which consists in a joint assessment of petition No 89 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by André Pimpão Graveto Araújo and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend the existing legislation on animal traction vehicles in order to prohibit their movement in public, and draft resolution No 445/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a survey on the use of animal traction vehicles and consequent regulation ( NAP ). Mr André Silva, to whom I give the floor, is very active today. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP proposal, which calls on the Government to draw up information on the use of animal traction vehicles and consequent regulation, follows a petition from citizens whose work I take to congratulate. Recognizing that this is an issue that has not yet been discussed in Portuguese society, the NAP has chosen to reformulate its legislative initiative, putting forward a pedagogical and inclusive approach that may involve the Government and the other parties in the debate that is necessary in the country on this subject. There are obvious dangers of road safety arising from the movement on Portuguese roads of animal traction vehicles which are not subject to approval, signalling or hiring of insurance to travel on public roads, and the occurrence of fatal accidents caused by this type of vehicle is common. The Road Code does not provide that these drivers need driving licences, even though they circulate side by side with motor vehicles, and therefore a child may, for example, drive a car. There are also no requirements regarding the knowledge of the rules of the Road Code and there is no deterrence from alcohol consumption, since there are no penalties for drivers. In addition, there are still questions about the welfare of the animals concerned. It is observed that, often, excess load, deficit feeding, lack of drinking, lack of protection against weather or misapplication of equipment are subject to. There are several complaints that these animals do not have adequate rest times or conditions adjusted to the hottest days. There is also no specific regulation for the use of animals in traction transport, so animal welfare rules are very disregardful. The way these animals are used and treated is not compatible with an evolved society and we know that it is possible to protect them from exploitation and wear that are not effectively necessary. It is therefore necessary to know this reality better, to discuss it and, together, to reassess the regulation of the conditions and requirements for the movement of this means of transport, and to that end there must be time and space to listen to and involve regulators and social and economic agents.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u304	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to maintain the availability of the hearing that has so far been in our session. Mr Fatima Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u305	Mr President, first of all, I welcome you, as well as the Members and the Members. Members, the first petitioner, André Pimpão Graveto Araújo, and all other petitioners. This petition, in essence, aims to defend road safety and also punish cruelty to animals. in this measure, it requests the ban on the movement of vehicles of animal traction on the public road. According to what was clarified to us by the petitioner, this is a problem that lives a lot in the Algarve. The draft NAP resolution seems generally to have seemingly harmless proposals, but we also have some doubts about the need for them, in particular when it suggests that a survey, a study, of the number of people who use these vehicles should be made. In fact, we have to ask ourselves whether people or animals are first. We think animals must be protected, but first people must be protected. And what happens is that in rural areas people still use these types of vehicles very much, they need them, as well as in cities and historic centers, particularly in terms of tourism, being also used by people who cannot walk and use these vehicles to see historical centers. We fear that what is behind this NAP initiative is, above all, an attempt to penalise and ban the use of these vehicles, and that is what we are concerned about. It is a matter of concern because we know that the economy has to work, that people have to use, and sometimes we fear that there is an overlap between the urban environment and the people who live in the city in relation to the people who live in the countryside. On the other hand, it is said that horses have to use brakes — it is a fact. But if you feel hurt with the brakes, the horses—and those who live in the field know—gives whips and reactions. What happens is that if they don't use the brakes the people that go on top of the horses can fall, and that's what worries us. Opinions have been requested either from the IMT (Instituto de Mobility et de Transportes ) or the National Road Safety Authority which, in relation to insurance, states that the same is not mandatory in trolleys, but is not, for example, on bicycles. We are also told that there is no very significant danger, that is, a serious problem of road sinequality, if we meet the verified indices, as well as the speed of these vehicles. It is also mentioned in these opinions that in some places, such as in the Algarve, if the entities want to ban on some roads, because they think it is dangerous, the movement of these vehicles can do so, even though, as far as the cargo is concerned, there are already fines for when that burden is in excess.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u306	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u307	That is why the IMT points out that it does not appear to it to be a matter which should be prohibited. In short, we are here to defend, above all, people. We want the protection of animals, but we feel that it is not because there is punitive legislation that animals are protected. With regard to historical centres, the chambers themselves can legislate to establish that the animals who wait do so in the shade and not in the sun. But unfortunately farmers walk in the sun, as well as trolleys and horses...! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u308	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, when we talk about the use of animal traction vehicles, it is important, first and foremost, to know and take into account the concrete reality of our country. This is because the concrete reality of our country is also made by many people, in many villages, mountains and fields, who treats and cares well for their animals, in harmony with nature and in an ancestral relationship with animals, founded on the work of the earth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u310	But it is also a reality made of need, abandonment, reform of misery, closed public services and non-existent transport. It may even seem strange to some of you. Members, but there in those villages in Trás-os-Montes, in the Beira Interior or in the Algarve, who spends hours traveling in a wagon to go to the market or to the pharmacy, or who lives in conditions of extreme poverty walking from land to land with cars and animals, who live in this way does not do so by choice or by whims. In fact, for this purpose it is important to leave this simple repair to the project presented by the Party People-Animal-Nature : missing, in the text, the part about the people! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u311	We want to express our consideration and appreciation for concerns about animal welfare, but the indifference with which people are treated, the living conditions of people, the poverty of people is revolting. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] For us, the priority in this debate should be the search for solutions to ensure the conditions of mobility — and life! — that are still being denied to them today. But if between the previous proposal and the present one the NAP has had a clear retreat, it must not fail to point out that the creation of barriers and difficulties added to the lives of these people means not the resolution, but the worsening of the problems. If what is at stake is road safety matters, then the opinions of the National Road Safety Authority and the Institute for Mobility and Transport (which we want to record for its clarity, rigor and even wisdom) should help to clarify any doubts. We mentioned: "(...) are not comparable, either frequently or seriously, the potential damage caused by animal traction vehicles and the potential damage caused by motor vehicles. (...). A serious problem of road sinequality cannot be considered, particularly if we meet the rates of sinequality found in other types of vehicles. Also taking into account the low speeds of these vehicles will hardly be a special danger for other road users. Do not keep on seeking. ” Finally, we stress the relevant observation addressed to the Assembly of the Republic in this case: « A hypothetical prohibition... » — or the complication, we added — «... of the movement of animal traction vehicles at nothing would guarantee the proper treatment of animals by owners ». We are due to the proper treatment of animals, we are for animal welfare, we are against poverty and social exclusion, we are against racism and xenophobia, we are for the improvement of living conditions and, therefore, we cannot agree with this proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u312	Mr Abel Baptista, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u313	Mr President, perhaps, you would not need to speak after what has been said by the last two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen who spoke before me. It is that, indeed, questions that have been raised are probably not studied. Therefore, the question that arises here, of trying to prevent people who have difficulty in mobility from travelling on the public road, is at least an attack on human dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u315	It is that there are people in this country who use animal traction vehicles — who treat them well and who fully live with them — to be able to have their own mobility and transport the little merchandise that they can grow on their small agricultural parcels to sell it on the local market and that would thus be prevented from doing so. On the other hand, it is a complete fallacy to say that to drive animal traction vehicles you don't need any kind of license. It's true. But it's not the only case. I myself, who am a cyclist, am on the road and, to that end, I do not need any license or driving licence, nor do I need any civil liability insurance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u316	And it's also an animal traction vehicle. No offense, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u317	Yes, we can say that it is also an animal traction vehicle...! [[Laughs and applause from the CDS-PP and PSD.]] With a difference: it is a human animal traction vehicle. Therefore, if above all are people, what is not taken into account in this project and in this petition are people. In addition, in this case, the animals are also called into question and are not protected. It is that there are many animals that are protected today and that, being extinct, there are still, for example, the case of the Miradense donkey, which, if it were not used for traction and for walking people, would be extinct or the case of the clawed horse, which, if not used as a means of traction, would probably already be extinct. Mr André Silva, of the People-Animal-Nature party, this draft resolution, wanting to defend animals, wanting to defend people, seriously harming people, is not defending animals and is attacking nature. If you were to limit the use of combustion traction vehicles, for example, in many circumstances in the rural world, in many environmental protection areas, if you were to be prevented from circulating and replaced by animal traction vehicles, then, yes, we would also be defending nature, which is not the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u319	In fact, in some small European cities there are animal traction vehicles to be used for collective transport. But here, yes, we must preserve animal welfare, which has to be compatible with human coexistence, not only road, by means of animal traction vehicles, but also coexistence between people and animals, which is especially what we must defend in today's world.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u320	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u321	I shall conclude, Mr President, by leaving a personal final note: this is my last speech in this plenary because from now on I shall no longer be a Member, as requested, of resignation to the mandate and will soon be voted on in this plenary. [[General applause, having the CDS-PP, PSD and PS applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u322	Mr. Abel Baptista, the spontaneous reaction of the House speaks for itself. It was, to all the titles, eloquent. The Bureau is associated with this acknowledgement of the fact that you have always taken up your position as a Member of Parliament here too. I would therefore like to speak on behalf of the Bureau, and certainly by interpreting the sentiments of all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, wish you the greatest future happiness, in the assurance that you have contributed, with your example, to thank and prestigious the parliamentary institution. Congratulations, sir! [[General's applause, with PSD, CDS-PP and PS colleagues applauded standing.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the debate. For an intervention, Mr António Cardoso, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to leave a very brief note of greeting to Mr. Abel Baptista and wish him the greatest happiness in his career. Count on a friend. We've always considered it that way. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet those responsible for petition No 89 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) requesting the amendment of the existing Act on Animal Traction Vehicles, applying the prohibition of their movement on the public road. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has given the best consideration to this petition, having found in this initiative questions which it considers very relevant and which deserve consideration. For PS, any material that involves the safety of people and goods is treated with priority. For the Socialist Party, the security of people and goods has no price. Therefore, all concerns aimed at improving the movement of persons and goods on the public road will always be welcomed, especially the characteristics of animal traction vehicles. As for the health aspects of how animals are treated and the physical conditions in which they work, it is up to the State services to be vigilant and to act accordingly whenever any infringement of maltreatment occurs. There is sufficient legislation to ensure the well-being of these animals. It is from the public knowledge that the good performance of the veterinary public health authority in the defense of animals is done. The concerns referred to in this petition make every sense to be considered. However, the request for a ban on the movement of traction vehicles on the public road cannot be accompanied by the Socialist Party, since the withdrawal of persons is concerned with the freedom to choose their means of transport or to prevent anyone from, having no alternatives, circulating on the animal traction vehicle, even if the existing road safety legislation is complied with. As regards draft resolution No 445 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), which recommends that the Government prepare a survey on the use of animal traction vehicles and consequent regulation, it shows very positive signs of the safety of animal traction vehicles on the public road. The diploma also expresses great concern about the treatment given to the animals used, with particular emphasis on their abandonment, when they are near the end of life or lose working skills. In view of these facts, in sanitary terms, it makes sense to have a compulsory control and registration of all animals used in the traction of cargo transport vehicles. Despite sharing these concerns, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not follow this legislative initiative, since the issues raised are already covered by existing legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u324	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are called upon to discuss the issue of the movement of animal traction vehicles on the public road, as a result of petition No 89 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), signed by 4389 citizens, who claim the ban on the movement of vehicles of animal traction on the public road and draft resolution No 445 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) of the NAP, which recommends to the Government a survey on the use of animal traction vehicles and consequent regulation. The petition calls for this House to prohibit the movement of these vehicles, while the draft resolution only recommends the regulation for their circulation and the conditions for the welfare of the animals used by those vehicles. As is known, this draft resolution of the NAP constitutes a substantive amendment to the original proposal which, as the petition, had the same object: prohibition of movement. Since the amendment of the NAP initiative fully maintained the justification for reasons, which is geared towards banning the movement of vehicles of animal traction on public roads, it is legitimate to conclude that the specific regulation for vehicles of animal traction intended by the NAP will not be anything other than the prohibition, in fact, of the movement of such vehicles. If it were not, at least there would be a reference to this content in the justification presented and there is no, indeed, it does not exist. In both cases there is the assumption that there is no regulation in the legislation in force for the movement of animal traction vehicles, either for tourist purposes, for work purposes or for the carriage of passengers or goods. That does not correspond to the truth. In fact, the existing Road Code includes a chapter — the third — on this subject, in particular Articles 97. o is 98. the, which establish that in all that is not provided for in that Code, the transit of animal and animal traction vehicles is subject to local regulations. In other words, it will compete with local authorities to define, where they consider it necessary, appropriate regulation. The draft NAP resolution does not propose the repeal of this article in the Road Code, but argues that it is the Government that regulates a matter which is, by law in force, referred to as local regulations. If this House approved the draft resolution of the NAP, it would be immediately contradictory to the law in force, which is unacceptable. Thus, either the petition or the draft resolution under discussion converges on a prohibitive perspective for the movement of these types of vehicles unaware that, at many points in the country, animal traction vehicles are used by various types of rural and/or ethnic communities for the transport of people and small-scale goods, which do not have resources for the movement by other means than these.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u326	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u327	I will now finish, Mr President. The adoption of a prohibitionist position by this House would set up a decision that, in the economic, social and local context in which it would apply, would inevitably take on contours of ethnic or racist discrimination and social discrimination for the poorest and excluded social sectors of our society, which, for the Left Block, is completely unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u328	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to take advantage to wish Mr Abel Baptista the greatest professional happiness and success on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group. I would also like to welcome, on behalf of my parliamentary group, the thousands of citizens who have associated themselves with this petition that we are now discussing and who, through it, intend to ban the movement of animal traction vehicles on the public road. As a first note, I would like to say that the Greens follow the concerns of the petitioners regarding the need to safeguard or ensure animal welfare, especially in the situations mentioned above and that they may involve weakened animals which often bear excess weight. But I also wanted to say that we do not accompany the petitioners in order to proceed without further banning the movement of animal traction vehicles on the public road. We do not follow the petitioners in this prohibition, from the very outset, because this discussion will have to take place on a broader plane and, above all, it will have to address the very dynamics of the rural world which cannot, in this context and in any way, be ignored. In other words, a discussion involving the possible prohibition of the movement of vehicles of animal traction on the public road will have to be done, bearing in mind all the variables involved and all the dimensions that this discussion involves. We therefore welcome the amendment of the NAP's position on this matter, which, by leaving the ban on the movement of animal traction vehicles on the public road, has chosen to present to us a draft resolution which, in our view, is, however, a more sensible proposal than the original proposal which intended to prohibit the movement of such vehicles, without more — what I would say was a position to erode fundamentalism. What we consider necessary and possible is to safeguard animal welfare, without questioning the remaining variables of the problem and, of course, the dynamics of the rural world. This is an essential point for the Greens. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u330	Mr André Silva, there is still time, so I give you the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u331	Mr President, I welcome Mr Abel Baptista, wishing him the greatest happiness for his life and thanking these months of coexistence that have been enough to feel, at this moment, friendship with you. Mrs Fatima Ramos said that the movement of animal traction vehicles on the municipal roads could be prohibited if the municipalities considered dangerous. It is true, Mrs Deputy, but the fatal accidents, most of them, not all of them, take place on national roads and not on secondary roads. I also heard, despite many constructive criticisms, the usual argument of those who really disregard the welfare of animals saying that people are being put first and then animals. Don't! You're talking about those who are at the end of the line, who don't have any kind of protection. contrary to what has been said, I meant clearly that there is no regulation on the protection of these animals that are daily abused in this sector. Animal welfare in this type of transport is not acute.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u332	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have with us to attend the work in the Diplomatic Gallery, Mr. Ambassador of the Republic of France in Portugal and Mr. Diplomatic Counsellor, to whom I, on behalf of the House, present our most lively greetings. [[General applause, stand up.]] On behalf of the House, I also bear witness to our solidarity with the trials that the French people are experiencing today. We are entirely with your cause, which is also ours in the struggle for freedom and the affirmation of the values of the democratic rule of law. [[Ps, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]] Let us turn to agenda item 7, which consists of the joint discussion of petition No 510 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Submitted by Rita Isabel Duarte Silva ( Animal Association ), requesting that the Assembly of the Republic take into account the concern of citizens with the issue of animal protection and legile in order not to be given subsidies and public support to Tauromáquica activity, and, in general, draft law No 180 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — prohibits the use of public money for direct or indirect financing of Tauromachical activities ( PAN ), 287 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents institutional support for performances that cause physical or psychic suffering or cause animal death ( BE) and 288 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents public financing for Tauromachic shows ( The Greens ). I report that 3 minutes are assigned to each parliamentary group. For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Life is made of choices. We make our choices and our choices make us. Choosing means prefer, select, choose. Our whole life is made of choices and if there are some that do not dictate our future, others have a structural impact. Today, we are debating an impactive choice. We intend to debate whether or not public money should finance Tauromachic activities. We intend to debate whether or not public resources should be at the service of an extremely violent spectacle that inflicts pain and suffering on sensitive beings. Denied by political decision makers, the financing of these activities is as real and as evident as the opacity of the numbers, whose research is as complex as looking for a needle in a straw. However, support for bullfighting amounts to many million euros, from then on through the central power, with subsidies for the creation of bred-breed cattle, strategically included in the list of indigenous breeds, to be eligible for financial support. Also as a trendy example of the role of the State in this matter, which contributes and validates this anachronistic spectacle, is the exemption of VAT for Tauromachic artists equated with doctors or nurses. But it is through the municipalities that the financial support granted covers and perpetuates a parasitic activity of the state, translated into numerous and creative procedures with public money. I leave some of the many examples: sponsorship of races, payment of publicity, loan of municipal transport, rent of cars, purchase and offer of tickets of races, rent of bulls, hiring of knights and slaughterers, subsidies to bullomach collectivities, purchase of allusive books, sponsorship of bull schools, financing of museum houses of bull killers, surrender of fractions of buildings, donation of properties and, the cherry at the top of the cake, the pharaonic works in bull squares, temples of the cult of violence. Tauromakia has become an industry which, rather than operating in a market economy with the competitive rules of any other economic activity, is a public money-steward that takes away opportunities to much more decisive areas in our society, such as health, education or research. Regardless of whether it is for or against the bullfighting, we must be equidistant enough to know that it should not be public money to support an activity that is controversial, which implies free violence and suffering on animals only for entertainment, which runs counter to the latest European legislation and development of a healthy society and which, moreover, most Portuguese do not accept and do not support. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] During the intervention, an image was designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u334	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u335	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to greet the petitioners who have presented a citizen initiative that seeks to ban public subsidies on Tauromachic activities. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is a citizen initiative of the greatest importance, with over 30 000 subscribers, almost as many as those that would be necessary for a citizen legislative initiative. The petition questions with much objectivity the public funding that continues to be channelled to activities linked to the bullmach. This petition, such as the bill presented here by the Left Block on the same subject, places at the heart of the debate, on this issue, the problem of violence, violence transformed into spectacles. The performances with animals that inflict suffering and even the death of animals who participate in these activities are not carried out...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u336	In Salvaterra de Magos there were no towers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u337	... with a civil perspective of respect for the rights of animals. As serious as this is, too, the possibility of becoming a barbaric act, of brutal and explicit violence, on animals in a spectacle. It must be said that this insensitivity of some is embarrassing us. Therefore, it is not permissible for a State that wishes to respect, a State that respects itself, to allow in any way the financing of such activities. Regardless of whether we like tourists or not, the fact is that a respectable State, which has a view of civilizational development, cannot admit that public funds, money from our taxes, can somehow promote shows that at the centre of its activity have violence on animals. It is precisely in this perspective that the Left Block presents its bill, which seeks to prohibit institutional support for performing performances that inflict physical or psychic suffering or cause animal death. We expect two things from this debate: firstly, all those who, in some way, promote shows with animals, still legal, have an idea that they can put into practice, at least to remove violence and suffering from animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u338	You have finished your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u339	Secondly, this debate serves to raise the awareness of our society about the imperative need to solve this problem of turning violence into spectacles. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u340	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, to begin by welcoming the many petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic to request a legislative initiative to put an end to subsidies and public support for any Tauromachic activity. I want to say that the Greens are perfectly aware of this request, which is made to the Assembly of the Republic, because, moreover, this compromise was also included in the electoral manifesto presented by the Greens in the last elections. That is why, of course, we had the responsibility to bring here, regardless of the petition, a legislative initiative in this regard. In any case, there is no doubt, from what it was possible to understand, that this petition has given rise to this need for discussion and the presentation of legislative initiatives. What the Greens legislative initiative proposes is exactly the end of public funding to Tauromachic shows and it summarizes itself as follows: given the characteristics of absolute violence in this show, given that a good and growing part of Portuguese does not tolerate this show, what we believe is that this spectacle, to exist, must be self-financed. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u342	Tell that to the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u343	That is, if it exists, it is self-financed, not with the public money of all Portuguese. Moreover, if those money were allocated, in particular, to agriculture, and so much lack our family agriculture and the dynamisation of our rural world, we would consider it much more advantageous if they were directed there than for the tourdas. Basically, this is the proposal the Greens make. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u344	Tell that to the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u345	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Lima has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the intense public debate that takes place in Portuguese society, everyone recognizes that the Tauromáchian events are a historical, cultural, social and economic legacy that remains of great relevance to several municipalities and regions of our country. Among the various expressions, social practices, festive and ritual events that make up the Tauromachy, we continue to record the presence of many spectators in tourdas in a square or to experience ancestral practices, such as stringed tourada in the Azores, the Arab chapel in the municipality of Sabugal, or the traditional abandoned ones. Popular bullfighting, in addition to being an identity factor of many populations and their lands, involves aesthetic values for some admirers, which have contributed to the preservation of the environment and popular culture, further increasing the tourist offer of the municipalities, with corresponding economic benefits to the locations where these practices are rooted. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u347	in this sense, Tauromachic culture is an important cultural identity of many Portuguese regions to which this House cannot stay away. However, the Socialist Party understands, is sensitive and respects the freedom of expression and opinion of those who support an opposite vision and who defend the gradual extinction of this practice. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, while this is a lawful activity, permitted by law and duly regulated, there must be at the same time respect for the freedom of those who identify with the Tauromachy,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u348	... as well as the different communities that culturally and traditionally experience them. Although we understand the reasons and arguments invoked about animal protection and welfare, we cannot follow these bills of law that condition the intrinsic practice of the personal and collective identity of the communities that develop them, which abruptly limit an economic sector and which extinguish a cultural element that is a development factor in some regions of our country. On the other hand, by developing the Tauromáchic activities in municipal territory, the conditions of these bills interfere with the autonomy of local power, in accordance with Article 235 (2). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u349	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u350	in this sense, we understand that it must continue to be the responsibility of municipalities, parish and autonomous regions themselves to decide on how to carry out strategic management in economic, cultural, tourist and social terms of the territories and populations that integrate them and not the Assembly of the Republic. Consequently, the risk of interference in the autonomy of local and regional power is present in these bills. Therefore, the Socialist Party cannot follow up, voting in favour, these projects, despite understanding the other positions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u351	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u352	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting, of course, by congratulating the petitioners here, perhaps, I can also begin by telling the parties who have presented legislative initiatives in the requested sense, the BE, the Greens and the PAN, which we return to the same, we return to the debate on freedoms and tolerance, the freedom and tolerance that you can, whenever you can, attack. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, that's true. It is a debate on freedom, which you insist on searching, but the CDS will never tire of defending itself. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u353	The freedom to make choices, the freedom not to look in front of the statesmanship.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u354	Just for a few choices!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u355	For every choice! Freedom from allowing ourselves to be led by prohibitionist policies and taste. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Moreover, the position of the CDS is known and acknowledged and was explained a few days ago in this House by Mr Telmo Correia, do not quote it to themselves because I am far away from doing so well, and therefore excuse me from repeating it. But let it be very clear to anyone who wants to mask this debate with the issue of subsidization in terms of scarce resources, there too the CDS has a firm and perennial position. The CDS rejects easy subsidization, which diverts people's money to the accessory and not just to the essentials. And it's here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we literally go back to the cold cow.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u356	Cold cow? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u357	In the recent past, we have said, and we repeat, that the overwhelming majority of the alleged public support with which they want to end simply does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u358	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u359	There is no public support for the Tauromachia granted by the central State or by Europe, which was, in fact, very clear in the framework which Mr André Silva showed of the rostrum, in which the Members were all exclusively from chambers, chambers which are, many of them, chaired by parties of the gentlemen who defend these projects. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u360	Show me! Show me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u361	And I must say that this is written and published in a variety of places and that, therefore, you can consult, where... [[It's just reading!]] [[BE's protests.]] [[Just read it! It's published!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u362	Mrs. Members of the CDS-PP, please do not harm the intervention of your own Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u363	They're disoriented!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u364	It is reciprocal, Mr. President. Where, to legislate in this regard, Mr. Members, it is to legislate on dead letters, unless you want to finish — and I do not want to believe that this is possible — with the direct support schemes for the animal sector, in particular the suckler cow premium and payment supplement to the maintenance of indigenous breeds, or with support measures for livestock producers of indigenous breeds. That's what you want, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? I hope, quite frankly, I don't. I sincerely hope that your prejudice will not harm the fundamental and vital activity for Portugal, which is the livestock sector and, in the broadest sense, of course, agriculture. If what you want is something else, if what you want is to put an end to the bull machia, as you have repeatedly shown here, do it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, make it clear and once and for all. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] As regards municipal support,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u365	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u366	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your kindness. As I was saying, as far as municipal support is concerned, I would suggest, particularly to the Greens Ecological Party, that they consult the chambers that they wish to grant, and now that they also apply to these chambers and will see what the outcome will be, and ask them whether they want to give such support or not, and in addition to that, that they respect the constitutional autonomy of these chambers, and that they do not want, here too, to direct and condition the proximity policy that the municipal chambers develop with their populations. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[Protests from BE, The Greens and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u367	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP welcomes petitioners No 510 / XII ( 4. ( a )... [[Continued protests of BE, The Greens and PS Members and CDS-PP CounterProtests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u369	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the parts are legitimate, but in redundancy, for those who are using the word, it doesn't seem to me to be the best solution. You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u370	Thank you, Mr. President. The PCP welcomes petitioners No 510 / XII ( 4. a ) that, by using this instrument of political participation, they request the Assembly of the Republic to legislate in order not to be given public subsidies and support to all and to any Tauromachic activity. Tauromachic activities are a phenomenon that continues to divide opinions in our country. Thus, various animal protection movements and their well-being consider the bull to be a degrading and cruel spectacle, in which a pet is tormented for mere entertainment of assistance, which is qualified as unworthy of a civilized society. But the associations and fans of the Tauromachy replicate, affirming it as an integral part of the heritage of Portuguese popular culture, calling the race of bulls as a unique spectacle, considering the brave party as a school of virtues. As for the initiatives presented here today, it seems doubtful to address by means of legal prohibition practices that are felt as traditions or elements of cultural identity of certain communities and sometimes even whole communities. As the past has already shown, it is not the legal prohibition of these practices with a view to their suppression and the consequent repression of the communities that live them and feel them more strongly, which puts them to an end. It also raises doubts about the possibility of legal prohibition of public entities being able to intervene under the conditions of their realization, in particular by claiming, as a basis, that only what is sustainable will survive, in accordance with market laws. There are also practical application contradictions that show the need for reflection on the issue under discussion today. Decree-Law No 103/2009 of 15 June 2009 established the legal regime for safeguarding immaterial cultural heritage, creating a system of legal protection and advocating the promotion, defense and enhancement of manifestations of immaterial cultural heritage of communities. Thus, a question has already been asked: for example, the Arab chapel in Sabugal was included in the National Inventory of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage, hence due to its obligation to safeguard it, in particular by the State. In view of the projects presented here today, how the components of the safeguard policy provided for in Article 3 are compatible. that of the Law and the support to be granted in this context by public entities, when it is proposed to prohibit any public, direct or indirect support for Tauromachic activities? This and other questions remain to be answered, in addition to one return to this subject in the same line, which shows the need for further reflection and discussion of alternatives for what the CFP is and will always be available. We reaffirm our commitment to improve the protection of animals and to establish a more harmonious relationship between human beings and non-human beings. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u371	Mr Nuno Serra of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: Following the analysis of the petition that aims to prohibit public subsidies for tauromáquica activity, we have already verified that, either within the Ministry of Culture or within the Ministry of Agriculture, there is no support for this activity. In fact, I believe that those who come here to question the support of IFAP (Instituto de Financing for Agriculture and Fisheries ) when they do so call into question the subsidies for those who keep our indigenous races, for those who protect and work the milk sector — a sector in crisis — and therefore we often have to do the risk analysis of the words we use and of what we call into question. But, on this subject, we regret that the question of support for Tauromachy and IFAP's support is being used to generate persecution attitudes to people, families and businesses, taking farmers and farmers, who do a lot, beyond the creation of indigenous races, to see their names being questioned each time they receive a fund to produce agricultural goods, to produce more for our national economy. This is an important warning that we bring to all Portuguese people and that it is reflected in some attitudes of intolerance and arrogance that we often see and that we have come to see in our country: Portugal lives in a democracy and it is unacceptable that there are organizations, whatever they are, who persecute people, families or businesses, only for ideological prejudice. Portugal cannot tolerate that, for 40 years, this House, the House of Democracy, has defended the use of the word 'freedom', of free expression and local autonomy, for now that word is only used by some at times that they are interested in, when, at other times, they use the word 'ban' as a lexicon of custom. [[Well remembered!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u373	In view of this inconsistency and this hypocrisy, and it is enough to look at the diplomas that have entered here, where, for example, the honourable Members. Members of the Left Bloc appeal that funds should not be allocated to shows that inflict psychological suffering on animals, I ask the honourable Members. Members of the Left Block: have they ever had the same attitude toward human beings? That is, has it ever been to examine the subsidies and support given to the films and to see if there is any fact in these films that can cause and inflict suffering on the most sensitive and violent people who can bring any suffering to the most sensitive people? Question: Are you paying attention only to animals or have you forgotten about people? But more, Mr President, I ask you, for a matter of consistency, whether the Block of the Left, while you had the presidency of the City Hall of Salvaterra de Magos, you have ever had the opportunity to present a document such as that presented here today! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] I would ask Mr President to send a document from the Municipal Chamber of Salvaterra de Magos which proposes the Tauromachy as a cultural and immaterial heritage of the municipal interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u374	He's here, he's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u375	We still have the issue of local autonomy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u376	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u377	I shall conclude, Mr President. When the parties presenting the diplomas want the state to decide locally what the municipal chambers do, I ask: are we on the way you want? Is this decentralization? Is this what it is to give more powers to autonomy, or is it the opposite? Or does this decentralization only serve you at some point? Finally, I want to leave a big challenge to the Green Party and the Left Block, and it has to do with a very close camera here, the City Hall of Moita. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you present these same documents locally in this municipality. More: I propose that they do so in the 2017 electoral programme. They propose that the support for Tauromakia should be terminated in this municipal chamber. [[Congrats from PSD, CDS-PP, and from PS Members Ascension Simões and Maria da Luz Rosinha.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u378	I call for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u379	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u380	Mr President, my appeal is to request the distribution of the document which has just been presented in the debate so that it can be proved that, while the Left Block was in the City Hall of Salvaterra de Magos, there has ever been some funding for some bullfighting. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u381	Of course there was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u382	Let's try it! Try that! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u383	Madam Member, do not extend the debate. Please call on the Bureau in the exact terms of an appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u384	I've got all afternoon to be heard. I've got all afternoon, but I'm asking myself to be heard, because I think it's important... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u385	Mrs. Member, just a moment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they understand that for the Bureau itself, everyone must be able to hear the request of the honourable Member. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u386	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I request that the list be distributed with the funding of the authorities to Tauromachical activities, to confirm that Salvaterra de Magos does not appear on this list and to prove that there has ever been some funding from the Municipal Chamber of Salvaterra de Magos,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...while the Left Block had a political role in this House, to some tower. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u387	Question is made, Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u388	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u389	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u390	Mr President, it is only to ask that a document be circulated, signed by the former President of the Municipal Chamber of Salvaterra de Magos, which was from the Block of Left, with the title Tauromakia as an immaterial cultural heritage of municipal interest. It's a proposal from the House. [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS MP Simões.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u391	Now! [[Financing! There isn't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u392	Isn't there? Oh, my God! Your mask has fallen!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u393	Documents submitted to the Bureau shall be distributed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will create conditions for us to continue our work. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u394	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would particularly like to thank the Member of the CDS for all the recommendations she has made to us — I like to make recommendations to us —...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u395	Say that to Alcochete!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u396	... but I must tell the PSD Member that when he comes here « send a mouth», if I may express it,... [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests, hitting hands on the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u397	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, can you please manifest yourself more appropriately to the protection of furniture? Oh, my God! Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u398	It was a nice informality, it's not to attack. But the honourable Member should study first and perhaps be surprised at the positions that the Greens have taken over the years in the Moita Municipal Assembly in relation to everything that is associated with bullfighting. So that is what we are talking about. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] With regard to pursuing attitudes towards companies or people, Mr President, we would have much to talk about, in particular, the increase in VAT in the restoration, and out there, outside,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The companies that have closed in this country! You have not missed business winding-up strategies. But that's not what we're talking about in this debate... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u399	You've wasted your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u400	I'm done now, Mr. President. Whether you want or not, that is not what we are talking about in this debate. It is clear that the project that The Greens present has to do with the logic that they understand to be the Tauromachic spectacle and it is clear that what we consider...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u401	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u402	... is that this petition, which entered the Assembly of the Republic, and the project presented by The Greens always contribute to the awareness of someone else against the Tauromachic spectacle. I don't hide this from anyone, and there must be a legislature in which the Tauromachic show actually ends. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u403	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u404	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u405	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u406	Please. Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u407	Mr President, I would like to ask the City Hall of Vila Franca de Xira to confirm the value transferred to the School of Touriers José Falcão during the year 2004, which does not correspond to that indicated in the table that was presented. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u408	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the next item on our agenda, the assessment of petition No 63 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Submitted by Liliana Maria Ferreira Vieira Escalhão and others, requesting the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic in order to prevent the Lisbon Commercial Ateneu from being sold, together with draft resolutions 432 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the Lisbon Commercial Ateneum in order to continue its intended purpose ( PSD ) and 448 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recovery of the Ateneu Commercial de Lisboa ( BE ). Each parliamentary group has two minutes to intervene in this debate. Mr Sérgio Azevedo, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u409	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the petitioners and the subscribers of this petition and say that the Ateneu Comercial de Lisboa, with 130 years of history, has a recognized public merit in the development of such diverse areas as education, culture and sport. This is a milestone in the cultural universe of the city of Lisbon and that today lives a difficult, insolvency process, which has not only phased out the few cultural initiatives that remain in the Commercial Ateneu but has also called into question its heritage, in particular the accelerated destruction of the building, the Palace of the Counts of Povolide, as well as its important heritage acquis. It is, as Mr President said, a milestone in the culture and sport of the city of Lisbon. The preservation of cultural heritage, Mr President, is a fundamental task of the State and its administration. It is with deep regret that we note that the city of Lisbon, throughout all this time, did not have the ability to preserve this important space, as the Commercial Ateneu de Lisboa is. Therefore, Mr President, our draft resolution calls on the municipality, together with the Ministry of Culture, to seek a solution that will enable the Lisbon Commercial Ateneu to pursue the purposes for which it was intended. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u410	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Campos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners and by saying that Athens has always carried out its activity in the palace of the Counts of Povolide, on the street of Santo Antão. Created by an initiative of a group of traders, in order to democratize teaching and culture, Athens has developed its work over decades, according to the republican spirit, which understands culture as a common good. He diversified his activities, investing in particular in the field of sport, and acquired a multidisciplinary sense that made him one of the best known meeting places in Lisbon. Time was, however, leaving its marks. There has been a gradual degradation and is, three years ago, faced with an insolvency process. It became desirable to speculate real estate and came to think of a luxury hotel. There was no public intervention on the pretext of being a private entity, although recognized as a public utility since 1926. The members of the Group of the European People's Party have repeatedly been alerted to this situation. In the same vein, our Parliamentary Group believes that the acquis, heritage and memory of the Ateneu Comercial de Lisboa, which they represent for the imagination and collective identity, must be preserved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u412	There are, moreover, background, such as in the Silver Arm Factory and the Fundação Ricardo Espírito Santo. We therefore consider that the Directorate-General of the Book, Archives and Libraries and the Directorate-General of the Cultural Heritage, in partnership with the City Council of Lisbon, should make efforts to assess, inventory and classify the mobile and property heritage of the Commercial Ateneu. That the insolvency proceedings, harmful to the public interest, be examined, taking into account the right of preference of the State in respect of recovery plans. Let the palace of the Counts of Poffolide be classified.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u413	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u414	I will finish, Mr. President. And that it be considered its acquisition and recovery as a public entity in conjunction with the City Hall of Lisbon, in view of the creation of a cultural pole in the line of its history, roots and memory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u415	Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u416	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is, of course, a sincere greeting to the more than 7,000 petitioners who bring to the Assembly of the Republic a question which, at first sight, would perhaps be of local scope, but we are talking about the Lisbon Commercial Ateneu. Ateneu is an institution of public utility, with a cultural history more than a hundred years and of recognized interest to the former shopkeepers and traders of a former Lisbon. It is an institution which has always said 'present' in the matter of freedoms. It is a leisure space of free assembly of several generations, of encouragement to education, democratization and dynamization of sport, with undeniable artistic and architectural relevance for its real estate heritage. For this vast set of legitimate and valid reasons, this issue, in the field of debate, public exposure and assessment, is in fact very supplanted by this very local scope. And the state, which is truly regrettable, which has arrived at Ateneu Comercial de Lisboa, deserves not our indifference but our civic and political mobilization. Today, therefore, the PS Parliamentary Group is in favour of safeguarding its documentary, archival and bibliophile husbandry, speaking in favour of the classification of its real estate, in particular the Povolide County Palace, and is in favour of seeking a model in conjunction with the City of Lisbon, so that it can produce a viable solution that will restore the dignity of the Lisbon Commercial Athens legacy in the future. thus, the Socialist Party also welcomes the two draft resolutions that are now under discussion. Before I finish, I would like to say to Mr Sérgio Azevedo of the PSD that it is not a providential mission of the Municipality of Lisbon to interfere in the management of all private and associative institutions in the city. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues resuscitated]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u417	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u418	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words, on behalf of the Greens, are to greet the subscribers of this petition, whose purpose is to prevent the sale of the Ateneu Comercial de Lisboa. This petition has, in the perspective of the Greens, two great virtues: on the one hand, stresses the need to prevent the sale of Athens as a way to be preserved as a cultural space and, therefore, as an instrument of democratization of culture, and, on the other hand, draws attention to the need to rehabilitate the building of this centenary institution that is in full historical area of the city of Lisbon. Now, at a time when one of the solutions on the table, given by the insolvency administration, is exactly the closure of this historic building for a real estate project—of course! — this petition is of increasing importance and an unforgettable opportunity. It is recalled that there are 777 m2 of covered area and 8280 m of total area in a very tempting historical area for large real estate interests. And it is precisely this alienation process that, first of all, it is important to stop, so that the Athenau pursues the goals for which it was created and which, in fact, accompanied it throughout all these years. Thus, in accordance with the position taken by the Greens in the Municipal Assembly, when this matter was under discussion in this autarchical body, it remains to be said that we fully monitor the objectives and concerns of the petitioners, because in fact the building that today houses the headquarters of the Lisbon Commercial Ateneu is one of the most remarkable buildings of the street of the Portas de Santo Antão, including the heritage letter annexed to the Lisbon Municipal Director Plan. It is therefore necessary to safeguard the heritage and the valuable husbandry of the Ateneu Comercial de Lisboa, but it is also necessary to proceed to the urgent classification of the Ateneu Comercial de Lisboa and its rehabilitation as a collective turned towards culture, sport and the association service that the lower Lisbon area so accurate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u419	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u420	Mr. President and Mr. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I welcome the subscribers of the petition we are discussing. Since so much has been said about the Ateneu Comercial de Lisboa, I take advantage of these few seconds that I have to say something more about the association movement and the conditions to which it has been subject over time and which also dictate the outcome of many collections of culture and recreation and associations a little around the country. I am speaking in particular of the contempt that has been given to the association leader, the lack of resources and resources for the popular associative movement, and also, of course, of the worst conditions under which the Portuguese people themselves live, that they are removed from associationism and that they prevent them from participating in association life, either from the point of view of working time or from the point of view of economic availability. And in addition to all this, the income law expelled thousands of associations and collectives from the homes they were in. On the draft resolution of the PSD under discussion, I think it is enough to say that the PSD proposes to the Assembly of the Republic that it should take the only step it cannot take. Therefore, in the face of a situation which concerns the viability of an institution and the maintenance and safeguarding of the heritage, the PSD proposes that the House deliberate to recommend to the Government that it maintain the Athens, which is a private entity, to carry out the tasks that it has been carrying out so far. It is true that the State must provide the institutions with means for them to perform their cultural, recreational, social role, but it is no longer true that the Assembly of the Republic can decide on the internal life of an institution. On this draft resolution of the PSD little more can be said, but one can say something about the draft resolution presented by the Block of Left, and we welcome, because it presents measures that the CFP has already come, including, to point out as a solution, in particular in the local bodies, in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon and in the City Hall of Lisbon, and that aim at inventory, first, and the possible classification of the heritage, which is belonging to that institution, which at this moment, through an insolvency process, is being opened not only to the alienation of the heritage as to its disfigurement to become a luxury hotel, plus an enterprise of those that will pulcate and proliferate by the city of Lisbon, which, little by little, is becoming more and more into a park of entertainment for the rich of other countries. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u421	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u422	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As regards the motion for a resolution and the draft resolutions we are discussing, I would like to say that we have some sensitivity to the matter in question, even though it seems to us that this should, in fact, be, in the first line and, perhaps, in the last instance, in the area of local affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u423	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u424	We are discussing the case of a building located in Lisbon that should have been discussed in the Lisbon Chamber because, essentially, this is a local matter. Our sensitivity has to do with, of course — especially for those of us, ladies and gentlemen, who are lisboets — with the tradition of these institutions themselves, the tradition of the city. We respect all this. It is an ancient institution, in its origin of republican tradition, as are many of the Athenians, who gave an important service to the city and the country in the formation, in the arts, in the culture, in the sport. All these are respectable facts. Of two, one: the institution is either private or not private. And if it's private and it's subject to an insolvency process, I honestly don't understand, Mr. Members — we are not against this — how the Assembly of the Republic will resolve insolvency proceedings of private institutions. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u425	It's a little confusing! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are strict and fair in this story, even taking in the words of a famous song, which the honourable Members say. Left-wing Members, surely, know well, may someone be who is not, the truth is that these institutions are no longer what they were. That dynamic Athenian, rising, where many workers and children of trade workers were there, concentrated there, is no longer the reality of Lisbon today, and that is why the institution was led to insolvency, and that is why this problem arises. It is clear that there are several things that have our agreement, such as preserving the building, preserving the facade, trying to ensure that that heritage continues to have a utility related to its origin, keeping the spoil, not letting destroy the library, saving the file. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u426	With all this we are in favour. Now there is one thing that has to be very clear: who should have resolved should have been the Lisbon Chamber. Interestingly, it was the Socialist Party Member who came to tell us that this was private. That's right! So how come you tell us that it is private... The House, which is of the Socialist Party, the House in which you have been for seven years — I repeat, seven years! — the current leader of this majority, the current Prime Minister, what have you done to solve this problem? [[Nothing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u427	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u428	Zero! The House has done zero to solve this problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u429	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u430	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, the finger must be pointed to the City Council of Lisbon, because it is its primary responsibility. We will not make these two initiatives unfeasible, but it is with the City Hall that must be resolved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u431	It is the House of Lisbon that can classify, it is the House that can rehabilitate, it is the House that can seek a solution, as it is evident, and it is the main responsible for the state of degradation to which the Athenian arrived today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u432	Mrs. Members of the next item on our agenda is the 2015 Assembly Management Account, for which there are no time allocated, as you know. They are also on the agenda, but without time allocation, the motions for resolutions Nos 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Cape Verde signed in the city of Praia on 30 March 2004, 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves Protocol No 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, open for signature in Strasbourg on 24 June 2013, and 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement of the Asian Bank for Investment in Infrastructure, signed in Beijing on 29 June 2015. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the voting period, I would ask the Secretary to read the file and the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u433	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 289 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Clarifies fiscal neutrality in non-conventional therapies by the first amendment to Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August, the basic framework for non-conventional therapies, and Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September, which regulates Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August, in respect of the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 290 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the parish of Santiago dos Velhos, of the municipality of Arruda dos Vinhos, to Freguesia de São Tiago dos Velhos ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission. I also inform you that the Left Block has requested the withdrawal of its draft resolution No 424 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement urgent measures to enable difficulties in training for people with disabilities and disabilities ( BE ). Finally, I am going to announce the results of the various electoral acts that occurred during the day. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the act of election to the State Secret Supervisory Authority shall be of the following content: « At 20 days in July of two thousand and sixteen, the election of members to the State Secret Supervisory Authority was held. The result was as follows: Voters — 221 Votes 'yes' — 148 White votes — 62 No votes — 11 In accordance with applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, the following candidates are elected for the State Secret Supervisory Body: Vice Admiral José Deolindo Torres Sobral ( PSD ) Dr. João Barroso Soares ( PS ) Dr. Teresa de Andrade Leal Coelho ( PSD ). To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores, Pedro Alves — Diogo León. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote for the Supreme Council of the Magistracy shall be as follows: "At the 20th day of July of two thousand and sixteen days the election of vowels was held for the Superior Council of the Magistracy. The result was as follows: Voters — 221 Votes 'yes' — 165 White votes — 45 No votes — 11 In accordance with the applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, the following candidates are elected for the Supreme Council of the Magistracy: Actual: João Eduardo Vaz Resende Rodrigues Jorge Salvador Picão Gonçalves Maria Eduarda de Almeida Azevedo Jorge André de Carvalho Barreira Alves Correia Susana de Meneses Brazil de Brito Serafim Pedro Madeira Froufe Victor Manuel Pereira de Faria alternates : Paulo Jorge de Sousa Pinheiro Paulo Rui da Costa Valério Gustavo Weigert Behr. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores, Pedro Alves — Diogo León. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote for the Constitutional Court shall be as follows: « At the 20th day of July of two thousand and sixteen, five judges were elected to the Constitutional Court. Candidates proposed by List A : Professor Doctor Manuel da Costa Andrade Professor Doctor Cláudio Ramos Monteiro Professor Doctor Gonçalo Manoel de Vilhena de Almeida Ribeiro Law Judge Joana Maria Rebelo Fernandes Costa Juíza Counsellor Maria Clara Pereira de Sousa de Santiago Subtomayor. Article 163 ( h ). the Constitution and Article 16 ( 4 ). the Act of Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ( Law No. 28 / 82 of 15 November, amended by Laws No. 143 / 85 of 26 November, 85 / 89 of 7 September, 88 / 95 of 1 September, 13 -A / 98 of 26 February, and by Organic Laws No. 1 / 2011 of 30 November, 5 / 2015 of 10 April, and 11 / 2015 of 28 August ), the result was as follows: Voters — 221 Votes 'yes' — 162 White votes — 43 No votes — 16 In view of the result obtained, the proposed candidates are elected to the Constitutional Court: Professor Doctor Manuel da Costa Andrade Professor Doctor Cláudio Ramos Monteiro Professor Doctor Gonçalo Manoel de Vilhena de Almeida Ribeiro Law Judge Joana Maria Rebelo Fernandes Costa Juíza Counsellor Maria Clara Pereira de Sousa de Santiago Subtomayor. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores, Pedro Alves — Diogo León. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote on the election to the office of President of the Economic and Social Council shall be as follows: « At the 20th day of July of two thousand and sixteen days the election was held for the office of President of the Economic and Social Council. The result was as follows: Voters — 221 Votes 'yes' — 105 White votes — 93 No votes — 23 In accordance with the applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, the following candidate is declared not to be elected as President of the Economic and Social Council: Antonio Fernando Correia de Campos. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores, Pedro Alves — Diogo León. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u434	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system for this purpose. [[Pause.]] Before we begin the voting, I take advantage to greet Mr Abel Baptista, because this is the last time he will be here with us, and wish him the greatest personal, professional and political happiness. [[General applause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework registers 222 Members, to whom are added the Members of the PS Carlos César and Luís Testa and BE Paulino Ascension, making 225 the Members present, and therefore we have a quorum of deliberations to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, we begin by voting No 113 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of three military in the accident with a C-130 plane at Montijo Air Base ( RA President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ). I use to inform you that in Galeria II and in representation of the Portuguese Air Force there is a delegation headed by the Commander of the Staff of the Lieutenant-General Air Force Amendio Miranda. Mrs Emília Santos will read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u435	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On Monday, July 11, three Portuguese Air Force soldiers died: Lieutenant Colonel Fernando Castro, Captain André Saramago and Sergeant Amendio Novais. Their deaths occurred following a tragic accident with an Hercules C-130 plane during a training mission at the facilities of Base Air No 6 in Montijo. This is undoubtedly a moment of sadness and deep suffering for their families, but also for the Air Force and for all of our Armed Forces. The dedication, delivery and services provided to our country by the military who perished in this tragic accident, at the service of Portugal, cannot be forgotten. July 11 was a day of mourning for Portugal and its Armed Forces. The Assembly of the Republic recognizes the services provided to Portugal by the military killed in this tragic accident and presents to its family, comrades and friends the most sympathy and expresses its deep regret for the success. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u436	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 113 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 116 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Condemning and regretting the attack on Nice, on the National Day of France ( RA President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ). I call on Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u437	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On July 14th, National Day and Party Day in France, ended tragically. In Nice, a truck went wildly about hundreds of people who were celebrating the values of freedom, equality and fraternity. A terrorist act that caused 84 fatalities. Our human feelings make us immediately think about the families of the victims. Our solidarity is also addressed to the people and to the French state. In order to deepen European cooperation, in preventing and combating terrorism, Portugal says that it is present in a policy that affirms and defends the values of freedom, democracy and sovereignty of States, oriented towards a culture of security and cooperation in international relations. This fight against terror is played on several fronts, because its causes are multiple. The weakening of threats makes them sometimes find new targets, new methods and new protagonists. This terrible challenge requires States attitudes of persistence, effectiveness and lucidity, to avoid attacking responses of rights, freedoms and guarantees or promoters of xenophobic feelings. Only in this way will the values that distinguish us and we will honor the memory of those who have already fallen, for the simple fact that they are exercising their freedom and their rights. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, thus expresses its greatest significance to the families of the victims, France and the French. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u438	Mrs. Members, as you know, is present at the Diplomatic Gallery Mr. Ambassador of the Republic of France in Portugal, Jean-François Blarel. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 116 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 114 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Greetings to Portuguese athletes medalled in Europeans of Athletics in Amsterdam ( RA President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ). I'll inform the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are present at the Gallery II Mr. President of the Portuguese Athletics Federation, Professor Jorge Vieira. [[General applause.]] I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u439	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Sunday, July 10, was a special day for Portuguese sports. Before the European football end, in Paris, Portugal shone at the highest level in Europeans of Athletics, Amsterdam. In the half marathon, Sara Moreira was a gold medal and Jessica Augusto bronze medal. Patrícia Mamona won the gold medal in the triple jump and Dulce Félix won the silver medal in 10,000 meters. Tsanko Arnaudov won the bronze medal in weight launch. This success is well demonstrated by the individual qualities of these sportsmen, but also by the level of demand and organization that Portuguese athletics have achieved, both at the level of clubs and at the level of the Federation. After the successes of Carlos Lopes, Rosa Mota, Fernanda Ribeiro or Nelson Évora, the capacity to renew Portuguese athletics is welcomed, well translated into this new generation of athletes. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the excellence of the participation of these athletes in Amsterdam, also wishing them the greatest successes for the Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u440	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 114 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 115 / XII ( 1. ( a ) — Greetings to the National Soccer Selection, for having a sacred champion of Europe ( RA President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ). Mr Duarte Pacheco will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u441	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last July 10 at Saint-Denis Stadium in Paris, the National Soccer Selection was the champion of Europe. The National Selection had reached the mid-finals of two Worlds and four Europeans. In 2004, Portugal lost its final game against Greece. Now, for the first time, the Selection won even the end and brought the Henri Delaunay Cup to Portugal. It's Portugal's biggest event in the sport that loves the Portuguese, the football. Writer Albert Camus once said that it was football that owed everything he had as right about one person's morals and duties. After what we saw at the end of the European Championship in Paris, the phrase wins us, Portuguese, a new sense. That game actually had a little bit of everything: the dramatism of the team captain's injury, Cristiano Ronaldo; the sacrifice and the help that revealed those who remained in the field; the luck that accompanies the champions; and already in the extension, the inspiration of Eder, who had not yet played a single minute in this championship. An epic game. A great lesson in life. This 2016 National Euro Selection has already brought together one of the best ever generations of Portuguese football. It is one of the best players in the world and the best European of today. The players of the Selection play at the highest level in several European championships and are a good example of the professional excellence achieved by the training and organization of national football clubs and the Portuguese Football Federation. Furthermore, to assess the recent European title of the Sub-17 Selection and the qualification of the Sub-21 for the Olympics, there are reasons to believe that this success will continue in the near future. But what we saw throughout this Championship, and in particular in the game at the end, was more than the value of individualities, was even the strength of a collective. Everything spoke louder than the sum of the parts. The selected Fernando Santos and the 23 invited players wrote a page of glory that will last in the memory of all Portuguese. An example and inspiration for us to face, with social cohesion and patriotic dedication, the challenges that we have as a national community. A National Soccer Selection is always much more than the 11 players in the field. The great Brazilian chronicler Nelson Rodrigues had already said: "The selection is the Country in Chuteiras". The National Selection represents the millions of Portuguese who, in Portugal and in the four corners of the world, form our national community of values and culture. If there were any doubts, it would be sufficient to witness the impressive demonstrations of joy that followed on the night of victory and on the day of the arrival of the National Selection to Lisbon. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, thus honours the Directorate of the Portuguese Football Federation, the National Selector and the remaining technical team and all 23 players convened by this unforgettable victory at the 2016 European Football Championship in France ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u442	Mrs. Members, I inform you that Prof. Pedro Dias is with us, representing the Directorate of the Portuguese Football Federation. We shall then proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause.]] Mrs. Members, I inform you that Dr Fernando Elias Claro is also with us, representing the Directorate of the Federation of Skating Portugal. We now proceed to vote No 117 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — From greeting to the National Hockey Selection in Patins, for having been sacred champion of Europe ( RA President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Abel Baptist.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u443	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In the Pavilion Dr. Salvador Machado, in Oliveira de Azemés, the National Hockey Selection in Patins gave more joy to the country. After football and athletics, it was the turn of hockey in skates, an old acquaintance of national sports victories, not leaving their credits by hands. Portugal conquered its 21. the European title in hockey in skates — a fact that didn't happen 18 years ago — is by far the country with more European titles in this modality. The victorious journey of Portugal in this European championship culminated in the victory over the European champion in title, Italy, by 6 - 2, in a game marked by an extraordinary and memorable reversal. This Selection showed to be at the time of selections, where they scored names as António Livramento, Ramalhete, José Leste, Chana, Vítor Hugo or Carlos Realit, real glory of national sport. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, greeting and honour, thus the players, as well as the Directorate of the Portuguese Skating Federation, the National Selector and the remaining technical team and support structure for the National Hockey Selection in Patins, for their commitment and dedication and for this important victory at the European Championship of Hockey in Patins, which dignifies and prestigious the Country and national sport ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u444	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause.]] Let us now turn to vote No 118 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Greetings of World Population Day[ Members of the Portuguese Parliamentary Group on Population and Development ( PS, PSD, PCP, BE and CDS-PP ) ], which will be read by Secretary Emilia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u445	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The World Population Day was celebrated on 11 July with the aim of raising awareness and alerting the international community to the importance of population issues being framed in development policies. The UN decided that in 2016 this Day would be dedicated to universal access to reproductive health services, in order to emphasize the essential importance that reproductive health plays in creating a just, equitable and developed world. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-Mon, pointed out, ‘Reproductive health is an indispensable part of the development equation. Women and young people who are in good health and who have the power and the means to make their own decisions about how many children they want, and when they have them, are better able to contribute to the development of their societies. ’ Still, there is a deficit in women and young people's access to health and education in many countries, including in developing countries and teenage pregnancy, continues to reach worrying proportions. According to data from the United Nations Population Fund, about 1,8 billion young people are entering reproductive age and lack of access to sexual and reproductive health results in the main cause of deaths of adolescents between the ages of 10 and 19 years in developing countries, and the incidence rate of sexually transmitted infections is still higher in ages 15 to 24. Investing in the human rights of all people, without leaving anyone behind, investing in universal access to programmes and sexual and reproductive education and health care is making the crucial investment in healthy, productive, equal and more sustainable societies. Thus, under the applicable regulations and constitutional provisions, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the World Population Day, reaffirming the importance of universal access to programmes and sexual and reproductive education and health care in the construction of a more just, more supportive and developed world».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u446	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on what we did not vote in the morning. The Bureau accepted, although considering that it should not be a precedent and at a forthcoming Conference of Leaders will explain why, the request of the PSD to postpone for the next legislative session the vote of amendments to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 27/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates the access to the pregnancy of replacement by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July (procreation and assisted medicine), so we will vote on this requirement and then we will see what will be done. [[The vote was taken with 108 votes against (PS, BE, The Greens and PAN), 107 in favour (PSD and CDS-PP) and 15 abstentions (PCP).]] [[Pause.]] There are some doubts here. [[Pause.]] The question is whether we will assume the presences or the number of Members who form a bench. However, it has always been assumed that it was the number of Members who form a bench, i.e. the votes are counted according to the number of Members who form a bench. It's always been that way and now it's not the end of it. Therefore, the request was rejected. We can therefore proceed to the next vote, which is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 27 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates access to the pregnancy of substitution by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( production of assisted medicine ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN and 20 PSD Members (Alvaro Batista, Ángela Guerra, Antonio Costa Silva, Antonio Leitão Amaro, Antonio Lima Costa, Cristóvão Norte, Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro, Duarte Filipe Marques, Fatima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Luís Vales, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Margarida Mano, Miguel Santos, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Regina Ramos Bastos, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against the PS, CDS-PP, PCP and 2 PS (Isabel Santos and Renato Sampaio) and abstentions from 8 PSD (Berta Cabral, Carlos Abreu Amorimori, Joana Barata Lopes, Joel Sauga, Laura Monteiro Maria, Maria Magal, Maria and Costa Costas.]] [[P.S.'s applause, standing Members, BE and P.N., standing, and The Greens.]] Let us now proceed to the vote in the speciality of the so-called Decree...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u447	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u448	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u449	Mr President, in order to facilitate the work, I would like to suggest that we vote together on all the amendments, if there is no opposing side, and the new Decree, with the amendments adopted in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u450	Mr President, the Bureau applauds everything that means simplifying the work. Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u451	Mr President, it is only to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u452	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall then proceed, as Mr Pedro Filipe Soares proposed, to the vote on the following proposals by the Block on the Left : amending paragraph 8, amending new paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 and renumbering paragraph 9, by 12, all of which are Article 8. the Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, as set out in Article 2. the Decree of the Assembly No 27 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ; and the addition of paragraphs 5 and 6 to Article 14. the same Law No 32 / 2006, of 26 July 2006. We shall jointly vote on these amendments and the Assembly Decree No 27/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Regulates the access to the pregnancy of replacement by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( Assisted Medicine Processing ), as amended in the meantime. [[The vote was put to the vote, and the vote was put to vote, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN and of 20 PSD Members (Alvaro Batista, Angel Guera, Antonio Costa Silva, Antonio Leitão Amaro, Antonio Leitão Amaro, Antonio Lima Costa, Lima Costa, Cristovão Norte, Crisovão Simão Ribeiro, Duarte Filipe Marques, Fatima Ramos, Firmino Pereira, Luís Vales, Margarida Balseiro Lopes, Margarida Balseiro Lopes, Margarida Balseiro Lopes, Margario Balseiro Lopes, Margarino Pereira, Marsec, Mars-PP, Margarida Balseiro Lopes, Maruro P PS (Isabel Santos and Renato Apali Renato Apcons of 8 PSD (Barta Cabră Cabral, Carlos Abrepu Abrea Cabral, Carlos Abrepu Abreu Amori Amori Amori Amori Amori Amori Amori, Joan Amorini, Joana Barera Barera Barera Barera L Pedroa Barera L, Pedroa Barara Lope, Pedro Barera Lope, Joel, Joel, Joel, Joel Mad Mado Mado Mado Mado Made Made Made S Maria, Sar Maria, Maria, Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria, Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria, Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Ma Ma Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria, Maria, Maria was was was was was, Maria Maria Maria Maria, Maria, Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma Ma was was was, Maria, Maria, Maria Maria Maria Maria, Maria, Maria, Maria Maria, Maria, Maria Maria Maria was was was was as was as was as Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria, Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria, Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria was as was as was, Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria was as was as was as was, Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria, Maria Maria, Maria, Maria]] [[P.S.'s applause, standing Members, BE and P.N., standing, and The Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u453	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u454	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u455	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CFP will deliver to the Bureau a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u456	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall then proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 418/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2015 ( Commission on European Affairs ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 327 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — By defending the District Hospital of Santarém in conjunction with the primary health care of quality and proximity (The Greens). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 351 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Improving health care at Santarém Hospital ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 440 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue to wagering in health care in the district of Santarém ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 442 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Improving the provision of health care in Lezíria do Tejo ( PCP ). With regard to this draft, the PS requested a separate vote on points 1, 2, 3 and 5.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u457	Mr President, I am sorry, so we ask that points 1, 3 and 5 be voted together and then paragraphs 2 and 4 alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u458	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Let us then vote on points 1, 3 and 5 of draft resolution No 442 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on point 4 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 446 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of resources at Santarém Hospital and its primary health care network ( BE). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 438 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes a transitional scheme for the retirement of teachers and educators with a view to creating justice in the retirement scheme ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 441 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the possibility of retirement to 40 years of discounts without penalties and the application of retirement schemes relating to specific situations ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] [[At the moment, there are demonstrations of public protest in the galleries.]] I ask the public present in the galleries not to manifest themselves, even in case of joy, which is not the case, nor in case of protest. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 174 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide the Hospital de Guimarães with adequate conditions for its normal functioning ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 437 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent work in the emergency services of Our Lady of Oliveira Hospital in Guimarães ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 439 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By conditions of service and decent work at the emergency service of the Hospital de Guimarães (The Greens). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 443 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By valuing and strengthening health care at the Hospital da Senhora da Oliveira, Guimarães ( PCP ). With regard also to this draft resolution, the PS requested the separate vote on points 2, 3 and 4 and then the rest. Having no objection, we shall first vote on points 2, 3 and 4 of the motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall vote on the rest of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 280 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce the VAT rate applicable to pet food products for the intermediate rate ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 447 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the reduction in the VAT rate on pet food products with a view to including this reduction in the State budget for 2017 ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and CDS-PP Member João Rebelo and abstentions from the PCP and the CDS-PP Members Isabel Galicia Neto, Nuno Magalhães, Patrícia Fonseca and Telmo Correia.]] Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 445 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a survey on the use of animal traction vehicles and consequent regulation ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, votes in favour of the NAP and abstentions from the Members of the PS Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Diogo Leone, Inês Lamego, Ivan Gonçalves, João Torres, Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] Mrs Inês Lamego, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u459	Mr President, I would like to inform you that Members João Torres, Diogo Leon, Ivan Gonçalves and I will send a statement of vote on this vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u460	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr António Eusébio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u461	Mr President, on behalf of the elected Members of the Socialist Party for the Algarve circle, I will present a statement of vote on the previous vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u462	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 180 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — prohibits the use of public money for direct or indirect financing of Tauromachical Activities ( PAN ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the members of the PS Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Diogo Leone, Inês Lamego, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Torres, Luís Graza, Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, and abstentions from PS Deputies Alexandre Quintanilla, Antonio Cardoso, António Sales, Eurico Brillante Dias, Filipe Neto Brandão and Paulo Trigo Pereira, and from the CDS-PP Member João Rebelo.]] Mr António Cardoso, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u463	Mr President, I would like to announce to the Bureau that I and Mr Sales will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u464	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote, also in general, Bill No. 287 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Prevents institutional support for performances that cause physical or psychological suffering or cause animal death ( BE ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the Deputies of PS Alexandre Quintanilha, Antonio Cardoso, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Diogo León, Eurico Brillante Dias, Filipe Neto Brandão, Inês Lamego, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Torres, Luís Graça, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Rosa Maria Alberz and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] We will vote for Bill No. 288 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Prevents public financing for Tauromachic shows ( The Greens ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the members of the PS Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Diogo León, Inês Lamego, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, João Torres, Luís Graza, Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, and abstentions from PS Deputies Alexandre Quintanilla, Antonio Cardoso, António Sales, Eurico Brillante Dias, Filipe Neto Brandão and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mr Telmo Correia, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u465	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to announce, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote, to which we will add a document of the Municipal Chamber of Saviour of Magi...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u466	Mr President, I ask you not to give any more information. The vote shall be taken in writing. I ask you not to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u467	... where there are tax exemptions for Tauromachy, thus proving that the Left Block lied in this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u468	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u469	Mr President, we are now voting...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u470	Mr President, during the vote there can be no debate on any subject, much less on chambers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u471	Mr President, there was an accusation from the CDS-PP that during the debate did not present any documents on the subject, which lacks validity, and that is why it is a falsehood. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u472	Mr President, you may make the statement of vote in writing that you understand. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 432 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the Lisbon Commercial Ateneum in order to continue its intended purpose ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 448 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recovery of the Ateneu Commercial de Lisboa ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on the Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2015. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Cape Verde signed in the city of Praia on 30 March 2004. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The overall vote on motion for a resolution 13 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves Protocol No 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, open for signature in Strasbourg on 24 June 2013. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement of the Asian Bank for Investment in Infrastructure, signed in Beijing on 29 June 2015. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 381 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of a national strategy for the ornamental plants and flowers sector ( CFP ). Point 2 of the resolution was replaced by the author. At the request of the PS, we first voted points 1 and 3. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PS and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] Let's vote for the rest now. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 415 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to recruit and link teaching staff in public higher education institutions ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mr Porfirio Silva, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u473	Mr President, I would like to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u474	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u475	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that the PSD Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u476	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 218 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthen protection for teachers in the disease ( BE ), whose resolution was replaced by the author. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u477	Mr President, it is to inform you that I will also give a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u478	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Hélder Amaral, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u479	Mr President, I should like to inform you that we will also deliver a statement of vote on this vote that we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u480	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 429 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It proposes the modification of the mobility mechanism procedures due to disease and the conversion of the educational component into non-lethal without aggravating the time of childhood educators and teachers of basic and secondary education ( PCP ). At the request of the CDS-PP, we shall proceed to separate the votes by points. First we shall vote on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we voted on point 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 250 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Need to study air quality and epidemiological study in Alhandra due to the pollution effects of CIMPOR ( BE ) ( replaced text within the Commission ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 302 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the process of identification of asbestos in public buildings, installations and equipment and its full removal ( BE ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 326 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue the process of identifying and removing asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment where public services ( PSD ) are provided. The Left Block requested the vote on point 1 separately, followed by the vote on the remaining points of the draft resolution. Let us therefore vote on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions of the BE and the CFP.]] We are now voting on the remaining points of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 391 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the conduct of a forensic audit to the Credit Card of the General Deposit Box ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the PSD, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mr António Leitão Amaro asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u481	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u482	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u483	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u484	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u485	Mr President, just to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u486	It's also registered. We will have many written explanations of vote during the month of August, for the gaudio of our services of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Laughing.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 370 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures for the installation and operation of the Centre for the Promotion and Valorization of the Tapate de Arraiolos ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolutions Nos 268 / XIII ( 1 ) was followed by the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works ( 1 ). ( a ) — Changes in the tracing of the extension of A32 and immediate lifting of current conditionants ( CDS-PP ), 398 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotion of change to the planned layout for the extension of A32, as well as the elimination of current conditions in the same ( PSD ) and 408 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government study an alternative outline for the conclusion of A32 ( PS ). The Green Party calls for a separate vote on points 1 and 2. Let us then vote on point 1 of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP and the NAP and the Greens' abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 414 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Termination of the trace and conditioners of A32 in the parish of Branca, municipality of Albertaria-a-Velha ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 330 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define as priority the re-qualification of the National Road 238, in the section between Cernache do Bonjardim and Ferreira do Zêzere ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 371 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — For the necessary and urgent requalification of the National Road 238, in the section linking Cernache do Bonjardim ( Sertã ) to Ferreira do Zêzere ( Os Verdes ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 372 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotes inspection actions to ascertain and guarantee the quality of the public passenger transport service provided by Transportes Sul do Tejo ( TST ) ( BE ), the text of which was replaced by the author. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 402 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By monitoring and ensuring compliance with public service delivery obligations by TST Transports Sul do Tejo ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 279 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently initiate de-absorption operations in the port of Póvoa de Varzim and promote studies to find durable solutions to the problem of absorption in several national ports ( BE), having paragraph 1 of the resolution was replaced by the author. The PS and the CFP call for a separate vote on points 1 and 2. Let us therefore vote on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 403 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The guarantee of the navigation and safety of the fishing port of Povoa of Varzim and the conduct of a technical study that solves the structural problem of the landing ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The following is draft resolution No 420 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen investment in dredging works in national ports, particularly in the port of Póvoa Varzim and Vila do Conde ( PSD ). The PS shall first request the vote on points 1 and 2 after the vote on point 3. We shall vote on points 1 and 2 of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We continue with draft resolution No 422 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government present a long-term solution to ensure security in the port of Póvoa of Varzim and a work priority plan at fishing ports across the country ( CDS-PP ). As requested by the PS, we shall vote together on points 1, 2 and 3, after which we shall vote on point 4. Let us begin by voting on points 1, 2 and 3 of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 249 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Supports the organization of the production of mushrooms SHITAKE and ends with the penalization of new producers through the presentation of bank guarantees as a pre-contractual condition in projects approved under support for rural development ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The following is draft resolution No 373 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take legislative and training measures to reduce the high number of deaths involving agricultural or forestry tractors ( CDS-PP ). The CFP and the PS call for a separate vote of points 2 and 3 and then for the remaining points. We shall vote on points 2 and 3 of the draft resolution. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the PSD.]] We're going to vote on the remaining points...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u487	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u488	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u489	Mr President, in order to recall that in the request we have tabled, we intend to vote separately on points 1 and 4, in addition to points 2 and 3, which have been voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u490	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on point 1 of the draft resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the BE, in favour of the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 390 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — By maintaining the tax exemption for the consumption of small producers ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us replace draft resolution No 401 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the inclusion of the Multi-Pision Crate Hydraulic Use Undertaking ( Pission dam ) in the priorities for investment in irrigation ( PCP ) ( amended text within the Commission ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 419 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 139 / 2010 on accidents with agricultural tractors and prepares a report on compliance ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The following is draft resolution No 425 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of legislative measures, monitoring, support and training with a view to drastically reducing the weakness of tractors ( PSD ). The CFP and the PS call for a one-by-one vote on the four points contained in the draft resolution. We shall vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PS and BE and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 4 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and BE abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 252 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the production, processing, distribution and marketing of mushrooms and wild truffles ( PS ). The CFP requests that the numbers of this project be voted on separately, so we shall first vote on paragraph 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on paragraphs 2 and 3. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 396 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Status of funding for vocational training for people with disabilities ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u491	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u492	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u493	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u494	Ah, but they're green!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u495	I'm asking the ladies. Members not to manifest themselves because at this time the difficulty of attention is very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u496	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u497	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u498	Mr President, as all parties are aware of the fact that this situation is already being resolved, we will also present a vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u499	To make a statement of vote it is possible to be more synthetic, Mr. We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 392 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Guaranteeing the legality and respect of workers'rights in the restructuring process of the New Bank ( BE ). At the request of the PS, we shall vote separately on point 1 of points 2 and 3 of this draft resolution. We shall vote on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us vote on points 2 and 3. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 423 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Suspension of collective dismissal in the New Bank and safeguarding rights and jobs ( CFP ). At the request of the PS, we shall first vote on points 1 and 2 and then on points 3 and 4. Let us begin by voting on points 1 and 2. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 3 and 4 of the motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 353 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures to combat child poverty ( CFP ). Here, too, the PS asked for a separate vote on point 4 on the remaining points. Let us therefore begin by voting on point 4. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We now move on to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 18 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates access to administrative information and reuse of administrative documents, including in environmental matters, transposing Directive 2003/4 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on public access to environmental information, and Directive 2003/98 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 as amended by Directive 2013 / 37 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the reuse of public sector information. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE and the PCP and the abstention of The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u500	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u501	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u502	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u503	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u504	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u505	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u506	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. The Left Block Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u507	It is also registered, Mr. We shall proceed to the vote on the text of replacement presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 136 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Legislative Initiative of Citizens ) ( PCP ), 167 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June regulating the Citizens'Legislative Initiative ( second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ) ( BE ), 188 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative ), simplifying the procedures and requirements laid down therein ( CDS-PP ), 208 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June to make the Legislative Initiative of Citizens ( The Greens ) accessible, 210 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June by reviewing the requirements and procedures for the delivery of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PS ), 212 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June, reducing by 20 % the number of signatures necessary for the submission of legislative initiatives by citizens ( PSD ), and 213 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April ( approved the Organic Law of the Referendum Scheme ), reducing by 20 % the number of signatures necessary for the presentation of popular referendum initiatives ( PSD ) ( the authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u508	Mr President, I suggest that this replacement text be voted jointly in general, in speciality and in global final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u509	Good help, Mr. Deputies. I note that this replacement text requires, in a comprehensive final vote, an absolute majority of Members in effective office, using electronic voting, so I ask the services to prepare the system for the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, we can vote. [[Pause.]] We shall then vote jointly in general, in the speciality (assuming by the plenary of the indexary votes held at Commission level ) and in the overall final vote the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, and was approved unanimously, with 199 votes in favour (PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN).]] I know there were Mrs. and Mrs. Members who have not been able to vote. Unless any Member of Parliament or any Member of Parliament wishes to state that he voted against or abstained, the text is deemed to have been adopted unanimously in the overall final vote, by means of an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u510	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u511	I assume it is to help the Bureau. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u512	Mr President, I suppose it is redundant, but it is only to confirm that I cannot register.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u513	Well, there's no problem. The honourable Member is registered for quorum purposes. The replacement text was adopted in a comprehensive final vote, by means of an electronic vote, unanimously. More than this is impossible to record.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u514	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u515	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u516	Mr President, the CFP will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u517	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I had the information that the PSD would withdraw from the vote draft law No 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). As, by the way, it has not withdrawn the legislative initiative, we shall, in the specialty, vote on Bill No 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, the tenth amendment to the Election Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No. 14 / 79 of 16 May, the sixth amendment to Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of local authorities'organs, and the third amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendant, approved by Organic Law No. 4 / 2000 of 24 August, adapting the electoral incapacity active to the new civil regime of disabilities ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on the proposal for an addendum to Article 38. o -A to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April ( Organic Law of the Referendum ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 5 Amendment to Law No 15-A/98 of 3 April It is added to Law No 15-A/98 of 3 April (Organic Law of the Referendum Regime), as amended by Organic Law No 4/2005 of 8 September, 3/2010 of 15 December, and 1/2011 of 30 November, and by Law No 72-A/2015 of 23 July, a new Article 38a, with the following wording: ‘Article 38a Disabilitys Do not enjoy the right of participation in the reference: Subjects to protection on the basis of limitation or alteration of mental functions, the sentence of which, for these reasons, has determined the inability to exercise the right to vote; Those who noticefully present a limitation or serious modification of mental functions, even if not subject to the protection of sentences, when placed in a psychiatric establishment, or as such declared by a board of three doctors to be tried by private decision.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u518	The overall final vote of Bill No 63 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) was harmed by the diploma to have been rejected in the specialty. We proceeded to the vote on the replacement text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on the drafts of lein. 98 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the supply of programme services in TDT, ensuring adequate technical conditions and price control ( BE ), and 185 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure universal access and issuance of all public television service channels via terrestrial digital television ( TDT ) ( PCP ) and draft resolutions 282 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — To improve the coverage and extension of the supply of digital terrestrial television programme services ( TDT ) ( Os Verdes ) and 298 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare for the extension of the supply of programme services on terrestrial digital television ( PS ) ( the authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u519	Mr President, the replacement text can be voted together in general, in speciality and in overall final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u520	It is from these contributions that the Bureau appreciates. We shall then proceed to the joint vote in general, in the speciality (taken by the plenary of the indexary votes held within the Commission ) and the overall end of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u521	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u522	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u523	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u524	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on Bill No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Return of cultural property which has been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 60 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u525	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u526	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u527	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u528	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November, corrected by the Declaration of Amendment No 4 / 2006 of 16 January, and amended by Laws No 78 / 2013 of 21 November, and 34 / 2014 of 19 June, establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAM ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the BE and abstentions of the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] We now generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the proposals of Lein 186 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAA ), and 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 54 / 2005 of 15 November, corrected by the Declaration of Amendment No 4 / 2006 of 16 January, and amended by Laws No 78 / 2013 of 21 November, and 34 / 2014 of 19 June, establishing the ownership of water resources ( ALRAM ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the PSD Deputies António Ventura, Berta Cabral, Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, votes against BE, PCP and Os Verdes and the PSD abstention.]] Mrs. Members, with regard to the same replacement text, submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, on the proposals of lein. 186 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 17 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), we shall vote in the specialty ( recruitment by the plenary of the indexary votes held within the Commission ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now vote in a global final vote on the same replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on the proposals of lein. 186 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 17 / XIII ( 1. ( a). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the PSD Deputies António Ventura, Berta Cabral, Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, votes against BE, PCP and Os Verdes and the PSD abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u529	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u530	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u531	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u532	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u533	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u534	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u535	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. The CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u536	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members will then vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation in the overall final vote on Bill No 23 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes a system for the reimbursement of fuel taxes for freight transport undertakings by amending the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, approved by Decree-Law No 73 / 2010 of 21 June 2010 and the General Tax Infringement Scheme, approved by Law No 15 / 2001 of 5 June 2001. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u537	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u538	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u539	Mr President, it is only to inform that, with regard to this vote, the PSD will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u540	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u541	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u542	I suppose it's for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u543	Mr President, yes, it is for the same purpose. The CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u544	Be registered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the proposal for a law No 323 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — I have established a family farming support scheme in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then, in general, vote on Bill No 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In defence of family agriculture in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE and the PAN and the Greens abstain.]] We proceeded to the vote in the overall final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein. 55 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combat forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation ( BE) and 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combats modern forms of forced labour by the tenth amendment of the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 to the fifth amendment of the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work, approved by Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 and the third amendment of the legal regime for the exercise and licensing of private employment agencies and temporary employment undertakings, approved by Decree-Law No 260 / 2009 of 25 September ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote together, in general, in the speciality ( recruitment by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the Commission ) and in the overall final vote, the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, concerning draft law No 94 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the obligation to present the unemployed for the fortnight ( amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006, 3 November ) ( BE) ( the author withdraws his initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u545	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u546	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u547	Mr President, it does not have to do with this last vote, but with a request for a waiver of final drafting of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic, which regulates access to the pregnancy of replacement, making the third amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( production of medicines assisted ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u548	Therefore, we must vote on the oral request submitted by the Left Block. Let us then vote for it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the PAN, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CFP.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will report on the opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u549	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Public Ministry of the Comarca do Porto, Case No 5 / 2016, the Subcommittee on Ethics of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr António Borges ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u550	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u551	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Auditors, Case No 18 / 2014, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Paula Santos ( PCP ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u552	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u553	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees refers to the extension of the replacement of the mandate in accordance with Article 5 (2) and (3) (a ). the Statute of Deputies of Mrs Carla Tavares ( PS ), Electoral Circle of Aveiro, being replaced by Mrs Inês Lamego, since 14 July inclusive, and until 24 November 2016. The opinion is to extend the replacement of the mandate of the Member concerned to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u554	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u555	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees refers to the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3. a is 7. the Statute of the Deputies of Mr. Abel Baptista ( CDS-PP ), electoral circle of Viana do Castelo, being replaced by Mrs. Ilda Maria Menezes de Araújo Novo, with effect from 16 September 2016, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-20.u556	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 63 to 73 of the Journal for plenary meetings of 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20, 25 and 27 May, and paragraphs 74 to 85 for plenary meetings of 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 29 and 30 June. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further requests for a word, I wish everyone a decent rest and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who leave right away for a good holiday. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 13 minutes.]]
