ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I ask the Authorities to open the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: drafts of lein.o 237 XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the organization of the Maritime Police ( CFP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 238 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — National Maritime Authority ( CFP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 239 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the time limit for the preservation of documents relating to the application of the extraordinary system of taxation ( CFP ), which is lower than 5. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 326 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue the process of identifying and removing asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment where public services ( PSD ) are provided, which falls to 11. the Commission, 327 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by defending the District Hospital of Santarém, in conjunction with primary health care of quality and proximity ( The Greens ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 328 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Paris ( President of the HR ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get on the agenda. According to a PSD marking, we will appreciate draft resolution No 321 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote the dynamisation and growth of the tourism sector in Portugal ( PSD ). To open the debate, Mr Paulo Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has made remarkable progress in the recent years in the replacement of the country's fundamental macroeconomic balances. A work of the then PSD-PP coalition government. After years of wrong public policies of the then socialist government that led to the stagnation of unsustainable growth and accumulation of debt, the PS government was then forced to resort to international aid and to negotiate and sign a memorandum of austerity. The adjustment process, which soon began with the PSD-PP coalition government, led to profound changes, of the greatest relevance to the present and also to the future of the country. First of all, we passed from a situation of chronic, rather high external deficits to a balanced, first, and surplus external balance. Macroeconomic and investment data also showed a very positive trend and results. In all this process of economic recovery in the country, the tourism sector has proved to be of strategic importance. The PSD-PP coalition government's commitment to tourism was indeed flagrant and very successful. Exports of tourism services grew on average on an annual basis 8, 6 % between 2010 and 2015 above the already high growth of exports, which was 7 %, and largely above imports. The tourist balance has thus seen its surplus rise in the past six years by 85 % and in 2015 amounted to EUR 7750 million, i.e. 4, 3 % of GDP. If Portugal was able to register in 2015 a surplus of the external balance for the third consecutive year, this was largely due to the dynamism of tourism. A fifth of the total correction operated in our balance of goods and services, chronic and strongly deficient until adjustment, was due to the sustained improvement of the tourist balance. We did so by investing with confidence in the requalification of the offer, seeking and conquering new markets and expanding our share in those we were already present. If tourism proved essential to lead to the opening up of the economy abroad, it was no less important as an investment attracting sector. The tourism sector — like our entire economic policy of the time — has generated employment and has contributed to reducing the recessive effects on domestic demand, which an adjustment process such as that for which we have been forced to pass inevitably has motivated. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to the traditional tourist regions of Portugal - Lisboa, Algarve and Madeira - have joined others, who, however, have shown strong growth - above the national average - as is the case with the North, Alentejo and the Azores. It is noted that, in the case of the Azores, the former Government has decided — and well— to liberalise the airspace of São Miguel and Terreira. Because the result was impressive: low-cost airlines flew to the Azores leading to an increase of 59 % in sleeping in the Azorean destination. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u5	Madeira also has impressive figures: compared to last year, there is an increase of 11 % in the number of guests, 19 % in the overall income and 20 % in the fourth income, thanks to the policy of the PSD Government in Madeira. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, tourism has become, in this way and across the country, a clear determination and commitment of the PSD-PP coalition government — a sector of vital importance, as a strategic vector of exports, investment and employment. There are many signs of a remarkable performance in the sector over the past five years. The number of tourists increased sharply: between 2011 and 2015 the increase was 29 %; between 2011 and 2014 the accumulated growth of foreign tourists was 34 %. Foreigners were 50 % of tourists in 2010 and were already 57 % in 2014. Moreover, in that year, there was a strong growth in internal tourism. The total profits of hotel establishments have already increased, in accumulated terms, 37 %. There are, however, indicators that indicate space for further progress, such as the average duration of the stay. In addition, the seasonality of the sector in some regions of the country must continue to be minimised. In any of these areas, progress depends crucially on long-term strategies, strategies that need to be intelligent and also stable. It is therefore essential that the dynamics acquired by tourism in recent years — thanks to the PSD/PP government — not only is not lost, as can be intensified. And that's possible. The PSD, which has always placed great importance and priority on the tourism sector, will continue to pay attention to its evolution and to contribute with suggestions for improvement. Tourism responds to two of the unmistakable priorities of any public policy programme aimed at serving the country's needs, largely consensual: creating jobs and increasing exports. This has been the case in the recent past and it is of the utmost importance that we ensure that this will continue to be the case. Given the fundamental importance of a business environment conducive to initiative, creativity and innovation, we believe that we should promote the adoption of a new national plan for tourism, organized around the focus on individual tourists and the freedom to act in the private sector. We propose the adoption by the national strategic plan of programmes aimed at boosting specific markets and products such as religious tourism. in this case, it is necessary to enhance the synergy relationship of the Fatima-Lourdes-Compostela axis. Another measure: continue to simplify the legislation for the sector in order to enable private operators to develop diversified tourism products that respond effectively to tourism demand. We must also, in a clear and courageous way, conduct an analysis with the private sector, of the whole tourism chain, to identify costs in the context of tourism activity that are limiting the competitiveness of the sector. Making tourism even more competitive is a national challenge. That is why we must reactivate the government structure — which existed with the previous government — and that was a cross-cutting working group that was promoting the periodic elimination of context costs. A work which has merited the unanimous approval of the sector's agents. In order to strengthen the role of the private sector in the promotion of tourism, we argue that the private sector should in a blatant way be associated with the definition, implementation and evaluation of the political component for the promotion of Destination Portugal. We must also direct part of Portugal 2020's funds to the tourism sector and to the qualification of the particular destination for the qualification of human resources. In addition, we should give a word of profound praise and encouragement to all those who work in the area of tourism, to all those who manage this area and to all those who invest and risk tourism. It is mainly for them that we owe the success of Portuguese tourism. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, the PSD promoted this debate on tourism because it is an economic area of fundamental importance to the country. It is also an area of great interest and dedication of our party. To bet on tourism is to bet on job creation, to bet on tourism is to bet on investment, to bet on innovation, to bet on services exports, to bet on what the country needs most. We must have as a national challenge to make Portugal one of the 10 most competitive destinations in the world. In 2015, our country occupied 15. the location at the World Economic Forum ranking. Towards 2013, we went up five places. We have to continue on our way up the last few years. To bet on tourism, as we have done, is to bet on the future of the country, it is to create more jobs, it is to create more investment, it is to create more innovation, it is to create more exports. That's what we did! That's what we want it to be done! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u6	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, five of us have signed up. Members to request clarification and Mr Neves informed the Bureau that he intends to respond at the end of the first group of three requests for clarification and then at the end of the second group of two requests for clarification. Therefore, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Neves, first of all, thank the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for bringing about such an important issue for the country, for the Portuguese economy and, above all, because the workers deserve this debate, the entrepreneurs who have been drawn by tourism deserve this debate and those who in the past have introduced useful and beneficial public policies for tourism also deserve this debate. Having said that, I wanted to move directly to the legislative initiative under discussion. The draft resolution, which was carefully analyzed by the PS Parliamentary Group, has three aspects that I would like to mention : it has a look that I consider good; it has a look that seems frankly bad; and it has a third that should be explained by V. Ex.a because I still do not know if it is good, if it is bad, because I did not quite understand the position of the Social Democratic Party. The good thing, and it's not new, is that finally the Social Democratic Party decided to come to the game within the framework of politics. in fact, we have witnessed in these debates and in these appeals to successive draft resolutions, mostly with a very significant set of generalities, but which are indeed a change of strategy of the Social Democratic Party, which has definitely abandoned that phase of the ammo after it has ceased to be government. They stopped kissing and started doing something to get political and discuss matters, and that is very good for democracy and for political debate. The bad thing, let me tell you, is the very content of the draft resolution in two significant aspects: the first is the exhibition of motives, which is a little a usual fantasy of the PSD and CDS. It is, in fact, a fantasy, already a cassette that is systematically placed and that, Mr, Mr, serves almost everything. It serves tourism, serves companies, serves innovation. Anything you want to do, they come up with reasons for the legislative initiatives and put the macroeconomic aspects in place. But, Mr President, I would like to ask you which part you have not yet understood, since the macroeconomic issue is not that country of wonders that you so much refer to. in this process, there is still another issue that deserves reference, which is the draft resolution itself. The resolution itself is marked by a complete departure from the importance of public tourism policies, and this is truly worrying and clearly inserted in this draft resolution. What we do not yet know what it is, and I ask you to explain it very clearly, is this draft resolution presented by the PSD, because it is perhaps the best and deepest criticism of the PSD to the full inactivity of the previous government in relation to tourism... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... or, better, if you prefer, the failure of the previous government in relation to tourism. [[PSD protests.]] And here, Mr President, because the tourism folder was in the hands of the People's Party CDS and who brings to this House the theme of tourism is the PSD, let me ask the following: is this not only a criticism of the government but in some way a harsh and deep criticism of your former coalition colleagues? [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u8	It seems to me that this is really relevant. I understand the discomfort of these benches,... [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u9	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u10	... but it seems to me to be a natural question that deserves a natural answer, even if it is not for your former government colleagues. But let's go to the motivation show, talk a little bit about it. At a certain point, you, in the explanatory statement, say that you have made remarkable progress in the replacement of macroeconomic balances. Mr President, we are back on the same subject again. But what remarkable progress has been made in the replacement of macroeconomic balances? Oh, my God! Mr President, are you talking about the issue of the deficit that you have promised to come down, come down, come down and never be able to guarantee the values that you have promised? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] The deficit continues above 3 % because you never got the values you promised. [[PSD protests.]] You are referring to the issue of debt, which you also promised to go down quickly, as soon as they reach power, and what has increased? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] Mr. President, there's an unbearable burb on the PSD bench and it's impossible to keep talking.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u11	I'm asking the ladies. Members of the PSD board to ask the speaker more gently, so that he can continue to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u12	I was asking whether it was the issue of debt, which with you always grew and were unable to come down, which they were talking about and still referred to the issue of unemployment, which with you had the highest rates of the decade. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy! The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are very nervous, they're agitated. Take it easy! They'll have time to talk. They've got plenty of time! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u13	Mr, 2 seconds of silence and then you can start again with more success, let's wait. At least, the Bureau will try to help.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. To safeguard the health of Mr. PSD Members, I'm going to change the subject. I don't speak any more of what the delirium of your explanatory statement is. I will then change the subject and move on to what was the real blackout, which I mentioned at the outset, of the policies in the area of tourism to which you have made over time and which deserves reference. in fact, firstly, this diploma demonstrates this blackout because you have been there for four years and have a set of intentions in this diploma which in the past have not put into practice. But perhaps worse than this blackout was the harmful tourism policies that you have implemented, the most obvious increase of 77 % in the VAT of restoration. And you know very well how impact this has had,... [[PSD protests.]] ... which was dramatic in unemployment, was dramatic in the fall of tax revenues, including, contrary to those that were your goals,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u15	...with a dramatic impact also on the increase in social expenditure to pay unemployment allowances for the unemployed you have created with the increase in the VAT of restoration. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paul Neves, this was one of the emblematic measures of what they have done in the past and which has had these totally negative effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u17	But you didn't stay here. They invested in public schools, in hotel schools. Every week, or week yes, week no, they said they were going to close a school. So they had a kind of action contrary to what they ask now. You have invested in the importance of interiority for tourism. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] As you know, tourism has a significant impact on the development of regions and you have invested significantly in this area and have ended up having a total lack of support mechanisms for tourism companies, mostly micro-enterprises, which today have significant problems with their solvency. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, they need to explain very well why they are now bringing this diploma here. Finally, I would like to mention two other questions. By going directly to the draft resolution, Mr President, in points 1, 2 and 3, you are calling for the adoption of the new national strategic plan for tourism to be promoted. They also say in point 3 that the national strategic plan of programmes to boost tourism is proposed. And they go that way, all around the national strategic plan for tourism. What is happening on this subject? You have made a document, Tourism 2020, which is a document of intentions, containing five good intentions. You don't want politics, you want principles. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, listen, please! At a certain point in this document, you ask: « should the tourism sector in Portugal have a national strategic project? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u18	I'm asking the ladies. Members to let Mr Pereira finish his speech, in fact, his request for clarification, which he is doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u19	So they ask: "should the tourism sector have a national strategy project? And Mr. Secretary of State of the CDS, Adolfo Mesquita Nunes, writes the answer here: "Our answer is negative. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That is, you are proposing today a draft strategy, with a set of very significant intentions, when your Government said that the response to the need for a strategic project for the country was absolutely negative. And I'm not saying that, it was you who wrote it in your intentions programme, which is Tourism 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it cannot be taken seriously that it should be placed in a draft resolution that they thought was negative and did not want in the past but now that they think it must be done by the Government of the Socialist Party. That deserves an explanation. The second question that deserves to be explained is the fifth aspect that you put in your programme. in the fifth aspect, you say very clearly that the competitiveness of the tourism sector is due to a reduction in the remuneration of workers in the tourism sector. This is very clear in your proposal. Mr President, I want to tell you that this is your usual song. We are not concerned with this, we do not promote the impoverishment of the country and much less the impoverishment of the tourism sector and its workers, which are a strategic asset. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u20	In fact, you know the importance of this strategic asset for tourism and the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u21	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Paulo Neves, through you, the PSD has chosen to speak of four years of economic success of tourism. Mr President, I would like to speak to you on the other side of the four-year currency of economic success, which has certainly not been addressed in your speech. It was four years of success at the expense of the worsening working conditions and the withdrawal of rights to thousands of workers in the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u24	You know the sector well and, therefore, you know that the precariousness of tourism is not the exception, it is the rule. For example, it is the use of unpaid internships and unpaid work that, in the summer, hold fundamental and permanent services of hotels, it is the use of professional internships that, although paid, respond to permanent needs, it is the use by employers to the expiry of the collective contract to then hire temporary workers who pay for misery to workers in luxury hotels that tourists in this country receive. You certainly know about this reality, but here you spoke of an example about which we would like to hear your opinion, you said of Ryanair. Mr Member, I will show you a Ryanair work contract, which says that what you are going to pay this worker is €299 and that the working time can be increased up to 50 hours per week. This is the successful practice of tourism in this country and multinationals, who use and abuse people's need for work to accumulate profits at the expense of their exploitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u25	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u26	But he says more about this contract. You know what he says? It says: 'The normal working time is 19 hours and 62 minutes...' — I repeat, 19 hours and 62 minutes! — «... and is 3, 92 hours a day. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Sir, this is unacceptable! The appreciation of tourism cannot be made at the expense of degradation, exploitation and withdrawal of rights. The appreciation of tourism requires, first of all, the appreciation of its professionals. And, Mr President, I would also like to hear here about another issue which is unacceptable. There is a luxury hotel in the capital of the country, which is the Sheraton Hotel, which resulted in the dismissal of two pregnant workers, one of them union leader, just so that the union leader cannot defend his colleagues. What do you have to say about chains of international hotels that fire pregnant workers and then resort to temporary work companies to pay far less to workers who meet the permanent needs of these hotels?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u28	What does the PSD have to say about the other side of the currency of economic success made at the cost of precariousness and withdrawal of rights? for our part, Mr President, I want to make it clear that the path of the need to defend tourism and the importance of tourism in the country's economic model cannot be based on low wages, precarious work and violation of fundamental rights. The PSD never opened its mouth to denounce these things that happened over four years. from the PCP side, in the past, in the present and in the future we will continue to be on the side of the workers and on the side of the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u29	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira de Os Verdes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Neves, in the 22 proposals presented by the PSD today to dynamize tourism we noticed that there is not a single reference to thermal tourism, and we even understand why. It is that the previous government has made a decisive contribution to liquidating thermal tourism, at least on the Saldada Stones. At the blight of your PINs, of projects of national interest, UNICER has benefited from an extended set of tax benefits and did what it wanted at the Salgadas Stone Thermal Park — literally did what it wanted! We see: in the investment contract, UNICER has undertaken to provide the Salgadas Rocks Thermal Park with tourist infrastructures and with the provision of quality tourist and hotel services. And, above all, it made a commitment to develop two hotel units in the Termal Parque de Pedras Salgadas, the Hotel Avelames and the creation of a new hotel unit, with tourist apartments, through the recovery of the Grande Hotel. The truth is that the Hotel Avelames or, better, the Hotel Sisa Vieira, was demolished six years after it was built, and still above it had been built with the participation of public money — today there is no Hotel Avelames or Hotel Sisa Vieira. As for the Grand Hotel, it remains in ruins. We well know that this PIN project was assigned in 2005, therefore, during the PS government, but the completion of the works of the Termal Park occurred with the PSD / CDS government. In fact, several members of the previous government were there at the inauguration, including Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, then Prime Minister. That the members of the Government of then did not remember to ask for the 110 jobs that UNICER had been creating, we even understood, because there was a great need for concern about the levels of unemployment in the region, which certainly was not the case of the previous government. Now, get there, inaugurate the Park, inaugurate the ecohouses and don't notice that the two hotels have not been built is that it seems too much to us! A hotel is a big, very big thing; two hotels are two big, very big things, but still it seems that no one has noticed or asked anything. It was all right because the public interest was not present, the public interest was missing at the ceremony and therefore at the Salgadas Stones, UNICER literally did what he understood. I ask you, Mr President, whether in this particular case, in the case of the Salgadas Rocks Thermal Park, the previous government has allowed a large « knife » in the thermal tourism of Salgadas Rocks. On the other hand, Mr President, the PSD is now very concerned about tourism, and still well, but in the 22 measures it presented does not make any reference to the exploitation of oil in the Algarve. In this respect, I would like you to explain to us how the defense that the PSD makes of oil exploration in the Algarve can contribute to promoting tourism. How does this activity fit the strategy that the PSD is now defending to promote tourism in our country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u31	To reply, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, you speak in discomfort on our part about what we have been discussing on tourism. Mr President, we have absolutely no discomfort — indeed, there is no logic of having any kind of discomfort. What is the discomfort the Democratic Social Party has in a government that we have led, together with the People's Party, in which the numbers speak for you. The number of tourists increased 28 %,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u33	... I repeat, while we were government, the number increased 28 %! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u34	Mr President, tell me what is the discomfort of this issue. More: the number of foreign tourists increased 33 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u36	...we became 15. the most competitive destination in the world, we were 20. or we went to 15. o. Mr President, what is the discomfort of these numbers? Discomfort, I tell you, it was if we had what you already have since taken over: there is no economic growth, the increase in unemployment is more than flagrant, the investment does not exist, the exports are falling. These, yes, are elements of discomfort and not the success we have had during the five years of our governance. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Carlos Pereira spoke in « blackout ». Member of the Commission, who is asking for a « blackout » are you who want to forget what was the situation in the country in 2011. But the Social Democratic Party does not forget how the country was in 2011, the Portuguese do not forget how the country was in 2011. Therefore, if there is a « blackout», it is yours and refers precisely to your balance, which must shame you, because it was a balance that brought misery to the country and we did the recovery of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] As for your claim that we do not invest in the interior or other regions of the country in the area of tourism, Mr Deputies, it is not true. You know perfectly well that we invest in other regions. Tourism in Portugal is not only Madeira, it is not only Algarve, it is not only Lisbon, it became also Porto, it became also the Azores, it became also the Alentejo. And that was thanks to the tourism strategy of the previous government, which we led.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u37	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u38	Mrs Rita Rato, allow me to tell you not to agree with you when she says that the rule is precarious in the area of tourism. [[Oh, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u39	This is unfair to those who invest in tourism in Portugal, to those who manage tourism in Portugal and to those who work in tourism in Portugal. But I will be very clear, Mrs Democrat : a few days ago the Social Democratic Party called on us to meet with a conference linked to tourism and we were very clear about the rights of those working in the area of tourism. Very clear. Therefore, honourable Member, if you want to be satisfied, you can stay, because we are with you when you say there has to be work stability in the area of tourism, but it is not unfair to say that it is an area where the rule is precarious. It is being unfair to those who invest and those who manage tourism in Portugal and who are doing extraordinary work. These are the ones that should be praised, because that is why we owe the good results that this area has in Portugal. however, Mrs Deputy, do not ask me to go into detail with regard to Ryanair or other companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u40	Ah! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u41	And what about the pregnant workers who were fired? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u42	... but, answering at the same time to Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I will say that if you have, as you seem to have, some cases that raise some doubts and want to denounce, it is not to us that you should ask, but to the Secretary of State for Tourism, who is present. Therefore, if you have doubts, if you have complaints to do, the Secretary of State is present, it is your government and you can immediately send the Labour Inspectorate to find out the truth of what you are saying. Do not ask us these questions, ask the Secretary of State, who is on the bench of the government and your government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u43	Two more Mrs are registered. Members to request clarification from Mr Paulo Neves. Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Neves, today gives us the PSD with a project that recommends to the Government that it adopt measures that promote the dynamisation and growth of tourism in Portugal. First error of analysis: by the way, in recent times, the tourism sector has even grown in the country. from there be strange this recommendation. According to data from the INE last March and by 2015, overall tourism revenues increased by 12 %, the number of guests increased by 18 %, the number of sleepings by 20 % and the number of landings at the airports by 14 %. Even the Government's own programme recognizes and places tourism as a strategic sector for employment and export growth. So it's nothing new what the PSD here brings us. This is another « number », among many « numbers », with which the PSD has provided us over the past few months. It is appropriate to say that « the mountain has yielded a mouse». [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] According to the error of analysis: during the four long years of lead, they never presented anything and now, a seated one, they give us proposals to jorros. Imagine that there are proposals already implemented on the ground, such as a strategy for tourism, as I said; the modernization and simplification of the sector through the Simplex, which you have abandoned; the valorization and qualification of human resources, which your government has reduced, precariously and disqualified; the dynamization of accessibility, which the PSD/CDS government has promoted, leading to serious setbacks. Mr President, would you like an example of this serious retreat? in the main tourist region of the country, the Algarve, your government imposed increasingly hated tolls, which blacked out tourism, the country and the region and brought back the road of death to the Algarve.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u45	Well remembered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u46	Third error of analysis: the PSD does not even have any trace of shame in the face, when we are told that it is necessary to bet on the qualification and focus the action of hotel and tourism schools, when in this matter, and not only, the previous government does everything exactly the opposite. I recall that in 2012 the then Secretary of State for Tourism said that the Government would close 4 of the 16 schools in the country — Mirandela, Fundão, Santa Maria da Feira and Santarém. If these and other schools did not close, it was due to protests, opposition by autarchs, populations and other entities. Who was the State Secretary of Tourism? Cecilia Meireles, PSD Government / CDS. Fourth error of analysis: if the PSD, such a friend of tourism, aims to grow this sector, it is not clear that its government has practiced and reinforced so much evil in the main tourist region of the Algarve. You've reinforced that evil! It is that the PSD/CDS government in hiding, in the wake of everything — of autoarchs, populations, business associations — has signed several hydrocarbon operating contracts that will kill the Algarve, the country's main tourist region. Therefore, this proposal is not actually understood when it is known that tourism activity is incompatible with the exploitation of oil and gas. Only Algarve accounts for about 50 % of the external revenue of tourism and about 50 % of the GDP generated by tourism. Mr. Paulo Neves, I would like you to address these errors of analysis. What measures do you have to counter what you said here, which is, in fact, an insanitary contradiction that you would like to explain. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u47	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo neves, the tourism sector is of great importance to the Algarve, having seen a positive development in recent years, benefiting from various conjuncural and external factors. But this reality does not hide the fact that a wrong political and economic strategy of successive governments has pushed the Algarve into an excessive dependence on tourism and related activities, neglecting other economic activities that they have already had and which could continue to have a relevant role in the regional economy. in the Algarve, we can't put all the eggs in the tourism basket. As the PCP has been defending for a long time, it is necessary to recover the productive capacity of the region in industry, agriculture and fisheries, as it is necessary to abolish the tolls on the Via do Infante. Only in this way will it be possible to ensure sustainable economic growth, job creation and combating injustice and social inequalities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paul Neves, workers cannot be the only ones to whom the benefits of the positive development of tourism in the Algarve region are denied.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u50	The contrast between the increase in profits recorded in the sector and the worsening exploitation of those who create wealth is shocking: workers. On the one hand, Algarve tourism has been recording records behind records regarding the number of guests, the number of sleepers and the profits. On the other hand, workers see their living and working conditions worsen year after year. The Algarve that remains after the end of summer is well the portrait of a country in which, by action of the previous government's exploitation and impoverishment policy, they fatten the low wages, unemployment, precariousness and deregulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u52	He could not fail to welcome the courageous struggles of workers in defense of their rights, which took place, for example, at Hotel Crown Plaza, in Vilamoura, in the Gulf of São Lourenço, in Quinta do Lago, in Club Praia da Rocha, in Portimão, in the hotels of the Carlos Saraiva Group, in Albufeira, among many other courageous struggles carried out by the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u54	Mr. Paulo Neves, your party, the PSD, brings here today a draft resolution proposing the adoption of measures that promote the dynamisation and growth of the tourism sector. They are more than two dozen measures, but not one, with a view to improving the working and living conditions of workers in this sector. And even in the rostrum, you were not able to say a word about the workers and their rights. They cannot hide that your choice is today, as in the past, by the worsening exploitation of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u55	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u56	in the Algarve, in the country there is no quality tourism with poor wages, with irregular working hours, with increasingly intense working rhythms, with months of forced unemployment stoppage, with abusive recourse to trainees, with pressures and blackmails on workers and with attacks on trade union freedom. in the tourism sector, as in all other sectors, what is required is the exploitation of work and workers. That is the way, honourable Member. That's our choice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u57	To reply, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u58	Mr President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, I would be unjust if I did not start by thanking you for bringing even more figures and more praise to the policy of the former Government in the area of tourism. Thank you very much for bringing in, thank you very much for recognising. You only have recognized that it was a successful and successful policy for the country! [[PSD applause.]] As for the issue of Simplex, of which you also spoke, I must say that we have made many changes that have made it easier to invest in Portugal in the area of tourism, which would be easier to do business in Portugal in the area of tourism. I will remind you: changes in the licensing of local tourism. The honourable Member will be the first to acknowledge that it was a very correct measure of the previous Government and that it has led to the growth of employment and employability in this area of tourism in Portugal. More: we founded regional entities. The honourable Member should recognise that we had more entities and the former Government did very well to reduce these regional entities. More: we increase the value of tourism promotion in Portugal. As you know, if there is anything that the current government has done, it is precisely to reduce the funds for the promotion of tourism in Portugal. In fact, the current government, which you support, also at the national level of reforms, which enthusiasts you, is not given a word to tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u60	Is it normal, Mr President, that in the national reform plan presented by this Government there is no word on an area as important to the country as tourism?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u61	Not one!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u62	With regard to the questions raised by Mr Paulo Sá, recognizing — what is good for him and thank you — the records, as you say, of the area of tourism in Portugal, he also raised the question of saying that things went well, but that it was due to situations outside our country. Sir, that's not good for you. It doesn't suit you, because first, it's not true. This mania that you have that what goes well is the fault of others and not of the Portuguese is an injustice to the Portuguese. in the last five years, the area of tourism has gone well and this is due to those who work in tourism, those who invest in tourism, those who manage tourism. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And these are the Portuguese, they are not those who are outside Portugal. So when you want to talk about the praise, which you did, do not forget that these praises should be addressed to the Portuguese and not to those who are out there, because victory was ours, you should honor all Portuguese, those who work in tourism, those who invest and those who manage tourism. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u63	Answer the question about the dismissal of pregnant women!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u64	For an intervention, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: No one questions today that tourism is a strategic activity for Portugal. It is the main export sector, representing 15, 3 % of total domestic exports and 8, 2 % of employment. In March 2016, tourism in Portugal grew 12, 6 % in terms of global tourist revenues; 18, 8 % in number of guests; 20, 3 % in number of sleeping places; 20 % in hotel revenues; and 14 % in number of passengers arriving at national airports. The Spanish market is growing more than 70 % in 2016, where we made this year a clear bet and an increase of 25 % investment in promotion. These growths are so much more relevant because they are higher than those observed in the previous year and also the global average. Since 2005, tourist recipes have grown every year only with the exception of 2009, which shows that Portugal's assertion as a tourist destination in the international context is a process that does not go back and that will continue to happen. We are currently 27. the world country in terms of tourist recipes, 10. the European Union and we are at the top 15 of the world's most competitive tourist destinations after we came down to 20 in 2013. the place.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u66	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u67	I therefore have no doubt that this activity has, in fact, resistance to economic cycles and a capacity to reinvent itself at less easy times, anticipating solutions and finding answers to the challenges that arise. The results that we have today reflect strong public and private investments over the past 10 years, which have allowed Portugal to affirm itself as a qualified, innovative destination, with competitive air accessibility and under favorable conditions to take advantage of the evolution of demand, its deviations and its interests. Since 2005, Portugal has seen a substantial increase in accommodation capacity, either in quantity or in quality, especially in hotels of four and five stars, this capacity is very differentiating. For this purpose, the mechanisms created then to encourage investment and simplify licensing made at the time of the successful Simplex 2007. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Tourist animation companies grew exponentially, as a result of the simplification made in 2007 of the rules of entry into the formal economy. In 2005, there were 56 and in 2010 they shot at 1108. Since 2005 we have seen the growth of air traffic to Portugal, the appearance of low-costs and the approach of Portugal to the centre of Europe and the world. In 2005 the Portuguese airports had 10 million passengers, today they have 20 million passengers. We have grown up in all tourist indicators over the last 10 years. But the challenges are great and we must make tourism more valuable to create more wealth, to create qualified jobs and to actually contribute to territorial cohesion and to mitigate regional asymmetries. To do this, we have to do the homework and prepare for the next decade. If, today, Portugal lives a positive wave of tourist demand, it is essential to create the conditions to respond to the great challenges we have: increase the value of supply; deconcentrate the search geographically; deconcentrate the demand throughout the year and mitigate the effect of seasonality. Only in this way will we have a sustainable activity from north to south of the country, from the inland coast, throughout the year, which creates qualified jobs. Although the macro indicators of demand and economic performance of this activity have been positive over the past 10 years, this reality has not yet had the desired impact on companies and on the income of people working in tourism. The financial autonomy of tourism companies has worsened over the past four years. Decapitalisation and difficulties of access to credit led to their financial autonomy falling to 0, 22. The last four years have been guided by the absence of specific support mechanisms for tourism companies, including risk capital, financial innovation instruments and lack of strategic guidance in the COMPETE. The persistence of low wages of workers in tourism is a consequence of this fragility of companies, particularly in restoration, who lived years of financial suffocation trying to survive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, the lack of dynamisation and promotion of domestic tourism followed in recent years and the lack of regional development policies at the level of tourism have aggravated the coastalization and concentration of demand in major tourist destinations and regions. In 2015, 90, 3 % of sleeping in Portugal concentrated on the coast. in the last four years, the seasonality index rose to 39 %. The average stay of tourists dropped to 2, 8 days, while in Spain gained ground increased to 3, 5 days. These are the great challenges that we face and to which we must respond, assuming the State, without complex and without prejudice, its role in creating the conditions for companies to create more wealth and more employment, not only in some regions of the country, but throughout the territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must create attractive factors that lead tourists to know regions that are not the traditional ones, to stay longer, to come throughout the year and to spend more in Portugal. This is what we're working on. We assume, from the outset and clearly, the need for a planned strategy that enables us to navigate in the direction and not in the sight of others, taking up the concept of a strategic tourism plan, abandoned in recent years, as all our competing countries have. We have already presented the basis for your discussion last week in social consultation to all the social partners and we will launch the public consultation of the new strategy for tourism next May 24th, at the Convent of Christ in Tomar, as has already been publicized. We want it to be a shared and participated strategy involving civil society, regions, businesses, workers, institutions and demand. I take advantage of the request that they actively contribute to the construction strategy, so that it is a shared strategy that ensures stability of options and commitments in the coming years. In fact, it is essential that we make efforts in a common sense — the public sector and the private sector — to ensure greater effectiveness in the work done by all. We're not cross arms waiting for the strategy while we're building it. What have we done in six months? To meet the capitalisation and financing needs of tourism companies and to boost investment, we put on the ground the new Supply Qualification Line, worth EUR 60 million for the next two years. It has already been approved on this Line launched one month ago, operations amounting to EUR 2, EUR 6 million, currently under consideration projects with an expected investment amount of EUR 38 million. We also launched the Innovation Fund for Tourism, with an appropriation of EUR 50 million, which is intended to finance innovation and entrepreneurship in tourism. We will speed up the implementation of Portugal 2020. When this government took office, only one project — a restaurant — had received support from PT 2020. at this time, we can report that we have already paid incentives to 74 tourist companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are also dynamizing the instruments of financial innovation in tourism — venture capital and real estate investment funds — whose activity in recent years has been paralyzed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u69	We have responded to the VAT rate in the restoration to alleviate these companies financially by promoting job creation. To promote air accessibility, which is crucial for tourism growth in Portugal, we launched the new air routes and tourist operations pick-up programme as a way to ensure the competitiveness of the destination Portugal. now, by 2016, we have already confirmed 25 new routes to Portugal and the reinforcement of 16 existing routes. in the context of the digitalization of the offer, we are implementing the program Portugal Wi-Fi, to make free Wi-Fi available in historical centers and monuments throughout the country and to develop programs for digitization of the tourist offer. We are also betting on culture as a differential factor in Portugal. We will launch the Programme « 30 public buildings, 30 investments », to place public buildings on the market for rehabilitation and investment and to enhance the tourism potential of our country. Alongside this Program, we are developing a public space reserve centre for events, thus placing the accessible heritage, to be used by all. As a way to combat the seasonality of tourism activity, we have apostolate in the diversification of products, particularly in the collection of international conventions and events, creating, to this end, a specialized team that is already on the ground. We are working with Algarve on a programme for its repositioning and combating seasonality, which has already been implemented, including the capture and strengthening of air routes and tourist operations for the low season, diversification of products, such as nature tourism and cultural animation programming. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Very important, we are promoting the tourist dynamization of the interior, through the development of anchor tourism projects, as well as the promotion of routes and bet on differential tourist products. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are also working actively on simplification and administrative modernization through Simplex+, as announced yesterday. in this context, we are, in particular, simplifying the licensing of tourist enterprises and restoring the possibility of opening hotels when the works are finished, a possibility that was eliminated in 2014 without understanding the reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u70	Another step back!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u71	Simplifying, responsible, is to generate confidence and predictability and is a determining factor to attract investment and to make more transparency in the processes. At the level of promotion, we are betting on digital, because it is inevitable, unavoidable and responds in an effective way to the need to be where people are: online, maintaining the total investment in this area. What we reduced, yes, by 75 % was the company's fee associated with the provision of digital service. But we are not neglecting off-line channels because they have a fundamental role in some markets, as we all know, that it is the example of Germany, which is growing 20 % for Portugal this year. With regard to human resources in tourism, we are clearly committed to their valorization and to the dignity of tourism professions, and are in clear disagreement with proposals whose concern is only the costs of the 'work' factor. It only makes sense to have growth in tourism if it is associated with the creation of wealth, skilled employment and the promotion of equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in recent years, despite the growth of tourism activity, tourism employment has decreased by 12 %, indicating the financial difficulties of companies, the increase of undeclared work and informality, which is politically and morally unacceptable and which, I am sure, we all condemn. With regard to the qualification of people, we are strengthening and valuing public tourism schools, inverting the tendency to dismantle the network. Therefore, we are already implementing the plan we launched last April, for these schools, which includes: the clear assumption that public tourism schools are not to close;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the approach between offering schools and real demand needs; new curricula, with betting in behavioral and technological areas; the opening of the hotel of application of the School of Hotelaria e Turismo de Setúbal, which has been ready for more than two years and which is closed for no reason; the requalification of the hotel of application of the School of Hotelaria e Turismo de Faro, which we have already concluded; the construction of partnerships between schools and institutions of higher education; the internationalization of schools, through not only existing protocols but also new associations. We want to increase the student employability rate and increase the number of students in schools by 25%. We want to strengthen tourism schools in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] with regard to knowledge, the measures now proposed by the PSD do not add anything new, and have already been implemented. The provision of extended and systematized information to all participants in the value chain of tourism has already been made at the beginning of this month, on the website of Tourism of Portugal, through Travel BI, which, in fact, we invite you to consult, because it has very useful information about markets, demand trends, tools available to companies, contacts of the tourism team network of Portugal abroad. Also the Satellite Tourism Account has already been reactivated and the presentation of its first results will be made in 2017. In conclusion, the results of tourism activity are very positive, but we cannot let ourselves get drunk and stop preparing for the future. Destinations do not build on a day and tourism does not walk by itself, resulting from effective and joint work, planning, investment, qualification of supply, qualification and valorisation of people and human resources in tourism and the promotion of destinations. The setting is favorable, but not an end in itself, because if we do not have quality in supply, services and experiences, everything is ephemeral. The challenges are great and we are pleased to see that we all recognize tourism as something strategic for Portugal. We believe that everyone can make important contributions to the future in Portugal, so I invite you and you. Members to participate actively, with new and constructive ideas, in the public discussion on the tourism strategy for the decade, which the government is launching. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u72	Mrs Ana Mendes Godinho State Secretary, there are five Mrs. Members registered to request clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u73	Mr President, I shall first respond to a group of three and then to a group of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u74	All right. So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u75	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, let me begin by congratulating the PSD on the opportunity of this debate, because it is a very interesting debate right now. In fact, if, in the face of the reform process in Portugal in recent years, there are sectors where we can effectively measure the fruits of the changes that have been made, without a doubt that the tourism sector is a sector that expresses these same amendments very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u77	The year 2015, just to catch that year, is characterized by exactly what we had, from the point of view of our consolidation, up to the commercial balance, a third consecutive year in which we managed to have surpluses, and surely the tourism sector was essential for having these surpluses. The year 2015 was absolutely historic, from the point of view of tourism numbers. It was the best ever year of tourism, exceeding 2014, which had already been the best year ever. It was one year in which the total profits of the hotel industry grew by about 13 %, we are talking about a value of around EUR 25 billion; we are talking about a year in which the level of profitability of the activity rose — RevPAR ( Income per Available Room) rose by 14, 4 %, to an average income of € 38, which contradicts, even many of those voices that said that in the tourism sector what was rising was the low price model. These figures clearly contradict that matter. The number of tourists who stayed in Portugal grew 9, 6 %, but the number of sleepings increased above that, which is a sign that tourists who come to Portugal are staying longer, and this is also very important for our tourist sector. The employment rate in December 2015 rose by 2, 2 percentage points vis-à-vis 2014. Finally, it is also important to mention here that tourism has grown in this direction in all regions; that is, the number of sleeping in all tourist regions in Portugal has increased. Today, any of us who go out to the streets in Porto, Lisbon, Cascais, Braga, or in any of our cities effectively perceives the difference and even the very positive impact it has had on matters such as, for example, urban rehabilitation, that is happening. This is undoubtedly due to the effort, entrepreneurship capacity, innovation, creativity that entrepreneurs and tourism workers have been able to have in recent years. But it is also proof that, when it becomes flexible, when the State recognizes this intelligence, that capacity, that creativity of companies, the truth is that the economy is growing, the truth is that there is innovation and certainly that we all have a lot to gain from it. But I also find it important to recognize the effort and work that has also been done by the political power in recent years, by autarchs, but also by people who have exercised governmental functions, such as the former Secretary of State Bernardo Trindade, or the former Minister of Economics António Pires de Lima, or the former Secretary of State of Tourism Adolfo Mesquita Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u79	The truth is that today we have a government that, contrary to that, for every announcement it makes is a step back; for every measure it announces is a reversal. And if there is a sector where this should not, nor can it happen, it is exactly in the tourism sector. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u80	in the tourism sector, what we have to do is exactly the opposite, it is to strengthen what has been done. I leave you a council, Madam Secretary of State: do not move, do not change, do not ruin, do not return! Do the opposite, strengthen what comes from behind,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u81	...give capacity for entrepreneurs to invest even more and generate even more jobs. however, there are a number of issues that concern us and concern us because we have also talked a lot about tourism sector entities, tourism sector associations, tourism business entrepreneurs, workers in this sector and we know that there are great difficulties today. Certainly seasonality is a difficulty for tourism in Portugal. We know that in some regions this seasonality derives a little from its nature (the sea and the sun is a little from its nature ). We know that there is also seasonality in some products, such as congresses and major events, and I am reminding myself, for example, of the Web Summit, which will be a great event in Portugal. And so we have to try to fight seasonality. Question : is it the intention of the Government to maintain a programme which is very important for the region of the Algarve — a region which, in view of its nature, has a great seasonality — what is the Training-Algarve Programme? This Programme was responsible for human resources training in 2015 and 2014 and for the maintenance of jobs at lower times. In fact, it is important, and already here has been much talked about the Algarve, remember that in 2015 unemployment in the Algarve even came to be below the year 2011. So in the summer of 2015 we managed to have less unemployment in the Algarve than we had in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u83	I therefore ask you a very specific question: does the Secretary of State for Tourism want to maintain, or not, this Algarve Training Programme, which is very important? I would also like to ask you another question, Madam Secretary of State. in a sector such as tourism, which always has a seasonality component, even if we try to combat it, one thing that is very important is to have a flexible labour law, a work law that effectively allows the sector not only to adapt to its difficulties, its constraints, but also to be able to provide quality service, because I think that is fundamental to the country. Quality goes a long way through the exploitation of human resources, through their training, but also through terms, from the point of view of labour laws, a flexible dimension. We read the Government Programme, we read the agreement that the Socialist Party made with the parties on the left, and some of them very much on the left (Left Block, Portuguese Communist Party, Green Party ), and we see that logic is to prohibit all term contracts. Question : Will the Secretary of State go on this path or will she struggle to create an exception, in the area of tourism, allowing the end-of-term recruitment for cases of true seasonality? We today have, fortunately, many service companies, many services that are made to tourism that generate stable employment contracts in business frameworks, but we know that in some areas, such as catering or hotel tourism, it is not possible to stop having contracts to end. I would like to know if you are going to defend this exception for the tourism sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u84	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Eusebius.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u85	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this draft resolution shows that crabs go through difficult times. Mr President, 'do not move' was exactly what you did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u86	And that's why tourism has grown!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u87	The PSD did not do what it now proposes and the CDS was a lack of tourism policy. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. PSD, one of the priorities for tourism in the public policy programme would be to create jobs. Did you know that the population employed in housing, restoration and similar moved from 286 000 in 2011 to 259 000 in 2015? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We are well aware that this reduction in employment is due to the previous government, in view of the tax increase that applied to companies, in particular the increase in VAT by 77 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] They also propose a new national strategic plan for tourism. But what plan? The one in the past? The one the former Secretary of State left us? The one who hated liberalism? Oh, my God! A strategic anti-plan, in which freedom is confused with lack of strategic guidance? Oh, my God! And in which the vision is confused with evangelization and I quote: "The person, freedom, openness, knowledge and collaboration"? Oh, my God! [[PS laughter.]] Is that plan where it is stated, until exhaustion, 'we do not want to identify strategic products'? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Secretary of State, is it not strange that the previous government, which has done nothing for a tourism strategy to be launched, is it now to say that progress is crucially dependent on intelligible and stable long-term strategies? Oh, my God! Madam Secretary of State, I ask: was the public discussion on the 10-year strategy for tourism not presented last week in the Standing Committee on Social Concertation to all the social partners? The public consultation session will always be held next Tuesday, 24th? contrary to the recent past, is this an open and shared process? Ladies and gentlemen. Members in this draft resolution also identify seasonality as a specific weakness. But I ask you: isn't the government working at various levels in the fight against seasonality, particularly in the uptake of air routes for low- and intermediate-season periods? Oh, my God! Is there not a programme to encourage training and combat precarious employment planned? Oh, my God! In this respect too, they are in contradiction, because what they did in the sector, in addition to facilitating redundancies, was to contribute to the precariousness of employment with a low-wage policy. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u88	Mr President, in terms of training, the Socialist Party has extended the network of hotels and tourism schools, has defined a portal for its work and a strategy. Do you know what the gentlemen have done? You have closed several schools — Santa Maria da Feira, Fundão, Santarém — and, as if it did not arrive, you have still uninvested those that remained! Mr. Secretary of State, after so many questions, the wagerings of the Strategic Plan for Training and School Network were launched in April. And what the PSD is now proposing does not add any value to what has already been announced publicly by the government and which is now being implemented. And to conclude, I must say that the system of knowledge management of tourism in Portugal already exists, Mr Deputies, and has already been implemented. The provision of extended and systematized information to all participants in the value chain of tourism was made in May, on the Tourism website of Portugal, through Travel BI which, moreover, I advise you to consult because you have very useful information about markets, search trends, tools available to companies, contacts of the Portuguese tourism team network abroad. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in six months, the current government has done what the PSD is now proposing, as has already been publicly disclosed and is public knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u89	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u90	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State for Tourism, the PSD is presenting to us today a set of measures to strengthen the tourism sector, but it has forgotten - perhaps because it is too much thinking in the private sector - that it is central to us in this discussion and that it has to do with the need to deconcentrate the demand and the need for the promotion of the interior. We know that, over the past four years, the PSD/CDS government has carried out a frightening investment in the interior, a disinvestment that has contributed to coastalization and to the concentration of demand in the usual destinations. But our country is much more than the sun and much more than beaches. Therefore, it is necessary to channel efforts to develop tourism in the interior, deconcentrating the search geographically; it is necessary to extend the tourist activity of the coast to the interior. And we don't have to invent anything because we don't lack wealth, we even have left out, what we need is to potentiate it. For example, we are talking about the scientific and cultural heritage of the archaeological legacy. This heritage must be strengthened in order to represent appeals to tourism in the country and thus also contribute to the development of the places. Even today, The Greens begin, in Avis, a journey called « Vias do Patrimonio Archaeological do Alentejo », precisely for the purpose of promoting the tourism of the interior and at the same time dynamizing the local economies. But we also have industrial heritage in the interior that has to be seen as a resource to enhance and promote tourism. For example, the heritage of industrial archaeology of the former Robinson Factory, which represents one of the most significant historical and cultural references of Portalegre, the Alentejo region and even the Country, still above it, associated with an important endogenous resource that is the cortex and still above it in such a depressed area as the Portalegre area. This heritage cannot continue to be abandoned, must be preserved and transformed into a tourist reference pole. The question I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State, is whether you accompany us in this reading and in the need to show the world that, in fact, our country is not just sun and beach. It's a lot more than that. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u91	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u92	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, as regards the growth we have experienced since 2005, we fully agree: every year we have managed to beat the record, so every year has been better than the previous one. This leaves any ruler in the area of satisfied tourism, but does not mean that he lowers his arms and no longer works to make growth even greater. In 2016, I hope to have the opportunity to announce once again a better tourist year, until the profits at this moment are growing more than last year by about 20 %. In terms of RevPAR, I would like to point out that although RevPAR grew in 2015, the truth is that it has not yet reached the 2007 values. So we still have a big challenge here, which is to recover the values we had in 2007 at the level of RevPAR. At the level of the average stay, we also have a great challenge here. In 2015, we had the lowest average stay days ever, which means that we are able to bring tourists, that we have fallen asleep, but we have to work harder to get them to stay longer. On the issue of reversals, it is not at all in our chip the concern to reverse whatever it is just to reverse, it is not our concern; on the contrary, it is to strengthen what comes behind. What comes behind and has been well done since 2005 and that has allowed us to have Portugal where it is today. In fact, I think we can highlight the advantage that we had when we started functions because we already knew the activity very well, so quickly, in six months, we managed to put on the ground a set of measures that allowed us to dynamize and put on the ground actions that responded to the needs of companies. I have made a great roadshow for the country, in order to identify with people the problems they are feeling, because I think that only then will we be able to respond quickly to what people need. That is why we also quickly put the financing instruments available to companies and also quickly approved the new road and tourist catchment fund, which was essential to ensure that we did not lose competitiveness here, in terms of operations and air flights. With regard to the concrete question you have asked me about the Algarve Training Programme, we are reviewing it, since we have not fully identified ourselves with the programme's frameworks, because it is very focused on renewing the term contracts. Therefore, our concern is to convert contracts into contracts without end. We are therefore revising the Programme's criteria so that it is, in fact, an incentive for conversion, for unending recruitment. With regard to this now, I wanted to tell you that, at this moment, for the low season of the Algarve, for the next winter in the Algarve, we have already achieved several new routes and the prospects we have, in terms of information from the operators themselves and the tourist offer, is that the forecasts for reservations for the low season, in the next winter, of the Algarve are currently very positive, which allows us to anticipate that there will be much less closure of Algarve hotels in the next winter. On the issue of term contracts, I apologize to you for calling on my professional experience as an inspector of work, which is why I have a special connection to the world of work and the reality of what is happening in the world of work. And, in this respect, I just want to tell you that it is not the government's objective to pursue or prohibit termination of contracts, whatever it is. what we are talking about is a term contract that has no basis and that is not really term contract. We all know, on a day-to-day basis, that much of this term contract does not respond to temporary or seasonal needs. Mr António Eusebius, just to stress, in my view, what is happening is that the government is being able to mark the agenda, because, whenever the government announces that it will launch instruments of capitalisation or strategic plans for tourism, we have here a hasty and early discussion in the Assembly, which we only like and is great for everyone, because we are all going to discuss these matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no doubt that we bet on schools, that is one of our brand where we believe very much and therefore we are giving them a lot of strength. On page 43, I am now taking advantage of it to stress that the PNR (National Reform Programme) has two references to tourism. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, with regard to inland tourism, is clearly one of our priorities, particularly in the development of tourism-wide projects that enable us to leverage the development of tourism in the interior but also the development of specific products that are fundamental in the interior, namely heritage, culture and nature. We have had exponential growth at the level of this type of tourists, who are increasingly looking for the uniqueness of our country. in this sense, we are developing more content and putting our offer online for everyone to know it. One of our major deficits is that people don't know what we have besides the sun and the sea. And that's what we have to work on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u93	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u94	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Government has recognized that in recent years good work has been done in the tourism sector both by the former Government and by private entities and by all other sectors contributing to this. I recall, for example, the health sector, which is fundamental, or also security, to the fact that we are a safe country, which attracts foreigners to Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u95	So I'm happy about that. I'm upset when the extreme-left parties, which, it seems, get upset about it,... [[PCP protests.]] ... they do not recognize that this was based on work done. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u96	They seem to think things fall from heaven and things do not fall from heaven. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u97	For things to come up, work needs to be done. It is therefore essential that the Secretary of State continue this work,... [[PSD applause.]] ...until you've been ruling the country for more than half a year. So it's good that I've done my job. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u98	Secondly, I would like to tell you that the previous government is working, and good foundations have been created. And there are conditions in our country, given the wealth we have in terms of both gastronomy, wine and natural wealth, both sun and sea and health, to enhance even more, to improve employment rates, particularly at the level of bed-keeping, whose rates have increased, but which can increase even more. So we are pleased that the government feels that way. We believe that this should require national consensus, and that is what people want to contribute. Therefore, the PSD resolution project was based on this objective: to contribute to helping the government so that we all together have even better tourism, more wealth created and more exports. As you mentioned, there is the problem of seasonality and there is the problem of discrepancy between the interior and the coast. We have seen that about 75% of tourism is in Algarve, Lisboa and Madeira, while the centre has only about 8, 2 % and in this center there is a low inland rate. So, although you have mentioned some measures, I would like to know even concrete steps to improve this tourism. And, as far as seasonality is concerned, it is good for you to understand yourself with the extreme left,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ...because, if there is seasonality, there must be temporary contracts for that same seasonality. Otherwise, we destroyed all jobs and companies shut down. It is therefore good for you to understand the extreme left that supports you and to say here that, in tourism, there must be seasonality, there must be punctual employment contracts. On the other hand, context costs required a programme aimed at reducing context costs, particularly in small commercial establishments. I would like to know what you intend to do about this. Then there is a great program inside that holds the villages of schisto, and a program in the center region, which includes several municipalities. I would like to know what you want to do, particularly with regard to improving signage and promotion. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u99	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u100	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government, in particular the Secretary of State for Tourism, and also the Members of the Committee of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen. This debate, triggered by the PSD, on the need to review a national tourism strategy, is quite well presented in its essential features in the intervention of the Secretary of State, however, has a major disability. It is that the PSD and the CDS want to build here a narrative on the national tourism strategy, ignoring some skeletons that have in the closet and that are essential parts not of a national tourism strategy but of a national strategy for private tourism, which was what the previous government did systematically in the last four years and half of governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u101	Nationalize hotels!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u102	I'm going to explain, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS. One of the essential instruments of this national tourism strategy has to do with the entry doors of tourists in Portugal. And the entry doors of tourists in Portugal are two: airports and air carriers bringing tourists to our country. What did the previous government do in terms of essential strategic instruments to ensure a national tourism strategy? He privatized both airports and TAP. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u104	So in reality, what you did, from the point of view of the national tourism strategy, was to apply a private tourism strategy to promote private interests... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u105	...and to harm the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u107	The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, who spend their lives accusing us of being radical, have to remember that the most radical, negative aspects that have taken place in the airport sector in Portugal have resulted in this privatisation bet either from airports or from the national air transport operator. I'm going to give two examples, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Prior to the privatisation of ANA, airport services were provided by public companies: by Groundforce SPDH and Portway. Both were public companies. There were labour problems in the sector, but there was no extreme precariousness, the violation of the collective bargaining that is taking place today and the dismissals that are taking place today in the airport sector. Why does that happen, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen? Because you chose, and badly, to sell the national airport network to a private operator.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u109	And the private operator considers it to be perfectly secondary to guarantee the rights of workers, only to protect their private interests and their profits. [[PSD protests.]] in the case of the national air carrier, what the government did in 2015 six months ago privatize TAP. What was the effect of this privatization? harm the activity of TAP as an essential vehicle for a national tourism strategy. The Secretary of State, and finally, made a very relevant observation: that of trying to increase tourist routes, which this Government has already negotiated. But the problem, Madam Secretary of State, is to know which vehicle the Government is currently having to apply these new routes of tourism. The company is now dominated by interests that are not national interests, is dominated by a private entity that actually controls TAP, which is Blue, the Brazilian company of Mr. David Neeleman,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u110	That's already reversed!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u111	...and national interests are being harmed. What are the instruments that the Government has to force the current TAP to meet the priorities that the Government defends at the level of tourism? Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, I also renew the request and renew the criticism of this draft resolution, because there is not a single line on the privatisations that occurred in the airport sector, either from ANA, or from TAP. And yet we know, as the Secretary of State said, that the main gateway to the country for tourists has to do with airports and the national air transport operator, TAP. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u112	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u113	Mr President, Mrs Fatima Ramos, with regard to the need for consensus and the need to make stable commitments that allow us to have a concerted and united course of effort among all, could not agree any more. And it was in this sense, moreover, that we launched the discussion of the strategic plan of tourism for 2027, to find ways and platforms of understanding to identify what is strategic and in which we have to work together in the coming years. I therefore ask for and thank the public contribution and participation of all Members of this House. Members, but also civil society, in the construction of this strategy. I will not repeat what we have done in the first six months, until I have already presented here some of the most emblematic measures which, I think, show that we have not been stopped, on the contrary, we have been working quite intensively with the regions, with the people on the ground and with the companies. The honourable Member asked me what we are doing, in concrete terms, at the level of projects for the dynamisation of the interior. We are currently identifying a set of anchor projects for the dynamization of the interior, that is, we want to encourage the development of a set of projects to be them the pivot of development in the interior. We are strongly betting on the connection to culture. We have, in fact, had a very intensive work experience with the Ministry of Culture in the sense of increasingly valuing the heritage that is throughout the country—and therefore also in the interior—and placing this public heritage, which is in the interior, at the service of the economy and made available to all. We are also developing specific products that are contrary to the seasonality and logic of the traditional product, the sun and the evil. Example: We created a special attack team for aggressive capture of international congresses, which goes around the world to pick up international congresses, focused on gathering congresses, mainly, out of traditional times and out of traditional destinations. We have associated this with the launch of a new convention-gathering fund precisely to dynamize and encourage this capacity of attraction to other competing countries. at this time, we are also mounting, together with culture and regions, an online calendar of offering cultural events and animation throughout the country to get people to know what is going on in the country. We all know about the gastronomy festivals that happen in Portugal, but often none of us know what is happening. So we need to make this more and more visible so that more and more people know what's going on. Another important measure of the Government to take the coast into the interior, in a much easier way, is the reduction of tolls, a measure that has already been announced and which is crucial for promoting the development of inland tourism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Heitor Sousa, we have launched a programme to promote air routes and tourist operations to ensure that the competitiveness of our destination is maintained. We cannot run the risk of being without air accessibility and without flights to those destinations that are important to us in tourist terms. This capture programme, which has already been approved and is published in the Journal of the Republic, which makes it possible to promote destinations that we consider essential, and we are working with airlines to ensure that links occur and that new links appear in strategic markets that we want to develop. I hope that by the end of the year there will be huge news, particularly on new markets where we are reaching. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u114	There is now a set of interventions. For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Tourism is in fact a strategic sector for Portugal, but it seems that we have had to go through the crisis so that this truth, over 20 years old, has become clear to the PSD. however, the importance of this leisure industry, in strategic terms, seemed to be consensual, even because it is probably repeated for decades. We also know that all the agents working in the sector, whether workers or entrepreneurs, often feel that this sector is not seen as such by governments and by some people. I make this reference precisely because today's debate, which was scheduled by the PSD, has added a draft resolution which in its text refers to the following: « Throughout this process,... » — and, of course, refers to the process of the crisis and the intervention of the troika as an excuse for all evils — «... the tourism sector has proved of strategic importance ». "It has been revealed," Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Did it turn out? — we ask. So does this even mean that for the previous government and, in particular, for the PSD, tourism was revealed only as a strategic sector when they found out that, despite all the wrongdoing they did, this sector had some resistance to the crisis? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was an excellent discovery, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not the unemployed, particularly at the level of restoration, who were unemployed and were forced to emigrate as a result of the closure of many companies that did not resist the increase in VAT...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u116	Madam Member, I apologize for interrupting, but I want to ask the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen standing behind the Bureau, please sit down or leave the Chamber. You may continue, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u117	In fact, many Portuguese have been forced to emigrate... [[Thank you?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u118	... and did not resist the increase of 77 % of the VAT of the restoration, decided in 2011 by the previous Government, as aid to the crisis and, of course, also as recognition of the strategic value of the sector. We have been talking about these matters for four years, reinforced by international opinions that recommend special attention to the labour-employers sectors. But despite this, we always counted as a strong opposition to these parties. The tourism industry is in fact the largest export sector, reaching more than 15, 3 % of the exports of goods and services in the country and representing even more than 45 % of the exports of services. As far as revenue is concerned, it has exceeded EUR 11 billion. It's impressive! Yes, despite what the previous government has done, tourism figures in its entirety have grown in terms of revenue, except in 2009. But to that was not the fact that Portugal was a destination that appeared as a refuge and option of many tourists from issuing markets that had as destination other places, abandoned by security problems. in fact, Portugal has long started a strategy to strengthen the tourism sector as a strategic one. In fact, it was in 2006 that the first Simplex emerged, but it was also at that time that the National Strategic Tourism Plan ( PENT ), launched by the PS government, with 10 products, 10 destinations, presented a path and priorities for the sector around which private and public workers worked. After that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was empty. The 2008 crisis arose and the PSD/CDS government understood that the best thing would be to have no tourism strategy and even public policies, which was, in fact, widely stated. As the foundations were launched and the entrepreneurs smashed their margins, often to the point of questioning the viability of their units, the number of tourists was increasing and Portugal captured market and quota, and could later increase and start recovering margins. That's what's happening right now. But we need to be prepared to reverse the great fragility in which many companies still find themselves and which, today, the Secretary of State for Tourism announced as a goal of this Government. There is a lot of work to be done and the PS Government has already presented a strategy, a vision for tourism, which we naturally welcome. Interestingly, after this and past a few days of this announcement, the PSD agendas this debate and presents a draft resolution that includes a set of recommendations to the Government, most of which is being implemented or is being implemented. There have also been caricatures of proposals which have been dropped in this Parliament a few months ago. I am referring to the draft resolution on the satellite tourism account that I presented here a few months ago and — let us be scared! — at that time, PSD and CDS dropped him. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the presentation of these draft resolutions and the PSD attitude seem to be a fault and an unequivocal recognition that you have done nothing with regard to tourism policies. Now, we urgently have strategy, it is urgent because they were unable to implement. It was the time of the laissez letez pass, the same is saying that there was no need for strategy, it was only necessary to let go and let it happen. We understand: it is best not to do anything that they do wrong...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u119	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u120	...and for that, it is enough the intervention they have made in tax terms. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]] Of course we agree that the national strategic plan for tourism is necessary. In fact, for four years we have asked for it, you and your government have always said that it was not necessary. Only after the government announced this project did they start with these recommendations. In conclusion, I would like to say that we welcome what the Secretary of State here has announced, in particular for the deconcentration of supply, for the exploitation of our territory and of products for the exploitation of tourism, as a factor of economic development and that the interior, two thirds of our territory, needs so much. It is necessary for the RevPAR to increase, that we form anchor projects for tourism and that, of course, the Iberian tourism market that the previous government has so despised, because we know that it has despised our internal market and that today the Government of Prime Minister António Costa, with the recovery of income, is also giving great impetus to this recovery of income and the internal market. There has been much talk in Alexandre Relvas' « Go out here inside », but unfortunately that slogan has been replaced by « Go look out for what is not inside » of Passos Coelho, an invitation to emigration from which we cannot forget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are working on the sustainability of this growth so that it will not be ephemeral and therefore, the Secretary of State for Tourism, indeed, the country needs public policies that take into account the importance of this sector, as a major lever for regional development, a sector that is a great employer and the largest Portuguese sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u121	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Social Democratic Party on today's topic and on its initiative. However, I should like to regret that the fact that, in a sector that needs coherence and stability, either the Socialist Party, the intervention it has just done, or the Secretary of State, also in the intervention it has made, has not seen a sign for the sector, for the Portuguese economy and for the country, that it is not a territory of political combat, nor to know who did better or worse. The Secretary of State would make a good contribution to the sector if she could have the notion and clarity of realizing that, in fact, the governments of the Socialist Party did much to stabilize and create conditions for the growth of tourism and that the majority PSD/CDS governments also did much to consolidate and take advantage of this opportunity to grab those that were good external conditions, but that was not all. During our governance, not only the Secretary of State of the CDS but all government members, the whole government has been able to create conditions for tourism to achieve the results that have already been presented, including the increase in RevPAR, the increase in sleep, the increase in average spending by tourists. We have achieved better results, so I say that external conditions have been favourable, but there was a good government action, because, if we notice, we have grown more than the European average, we have grown up more than some broadcasters or receivers of tourism, such as France, Spain, which normally beat records in this matter. We have grown up much more than Spain and other countries. Madam Secretary of State, I would also like to say that you must recognize that, if we have good prospects throughout the national territory today, it is due to the courage and review that has been made in regional tourism institutions. I know, because I was in this debate, as we were often alone with the former Secretary of State Cecilia Meireles in what was a correction of waste, duplication, a set of poles that lost effectiveness in what was an internal promotion. Today, of 16 regions we have 5. The Secretary of State said, well, that she goes through the country and talks to all those involved in the sector. Did you notice that today the regions are calm, calm, working, valuing the product, creating this product tourist destinations? We have done something even more important: we involve the private in this discussion, because it is the private who have meals and beds to sell, it is not the authorities, nor the state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u123	Has the Secretary of State noticed that we have made a correction without great criticism of the change prior to the travel agency law? Did you notice that today the sector can have a private initiative and, at the same time, defend consumers? Today, we have a sector in peace, growing, innovating and being fundamental to capture new destinations. And so I say that not everything was bad in the previous government, as it seemed to go away from the words of you Exa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u125	Did you notice that the promotion model, leaving the Allgarve, turned to the market, to the farm tripes, to the operators, to the international press, for the appreciation of what are endogenous products and the Portugal brand made it to consolidate a set of Oscars in the Gulf, on the beach, in the resorts? Oh, my God! Did you notice that today the Algarve is a great brand and a gateway to national tourism? Oh, my God! Madam Secretary of State, I will not make major speeches on the previous PENT and the new PENT, but I think it is worth thinking about the sector, it is worth even more: to convince the country and the government that tourism needs a different look, a specific look, because we are talking about a sector of the economy that is very specific, of course, seasonality, is true, and it does not resolve, fight. We are not lucky enough to have, as some countries have only two stations, the summer and the railway station, we have more than that and we have to solve this problem, and this problem is solved by active policies in training and employment. And that is why these issues must be dealt with from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u126	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u127	I will finish, Mr President, by saying that I am waiting for the Simplex and the great ideas of yesterday's Simplex to help the tourism, but I draw attention to the fact that...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u128	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u129	...the opening of a hotel, only and only without permission, can then bring a set of fines to travel agencies or platforms for selling hotels without permission. It takes good sense and balance to find no entropies here.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u130	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u131	These are the issues and we are waiting for the government to continue the good work of the previous government to help the sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u132	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Tourism is an important economic sector in our country. The characteristics of Portugal — culture, heritage, landscape, our coast and our beaches, gastronomy — associated with the quality of supply are an important success factor for this sector, which has contributed much in recent years to the surplus of current balance and capital. in recent years, the sector has gone through difficulties and, more recently, statistical data point to good results. The former government has not been tired of announcing successive better years than ever before, without ever talking about the problems of the sector — the speech they are holding today. They are limited to making a linear reading of the results of the value of exports and imports of the "travel and tourism" sections of our service balance over the past six years, completely ignoring the external framework and, even more serious, ignoring that many of the results obtained were - at the expense of over-exploration of the workers in the sector. When questioned by the CFP, the former government was talking about the problem of workers, but the answer always referred to a future moment when success would reach its wages. We were, in fact, complaining that many employers in the sector refused to negotiate collective labour agreements, imposing unacceptable revisions, and, as there was no review of contracts, there were no wage updates. For the CFP there is no success in the sector if workers are not respected, because in this sector, more than others, the action of workers is a key element for success. The speech of success also leaves out a set of small companies that, outside Lisbon, Algarve and Porto and even in these regions, have not been reflected in their revenues this success, which, being global, arrived more easily to large groups than to small companies that guarantee that the offer covers the entire national territory. The PSD project discussed today is the transcription of the right-wing government program to the sector. As the Government Programme has been rejected, this project, which is based on neoliberal ideology, should be, despite the merit that some proposals might have in another framework. It is regrettable that in a sector that employs the lowest wages in our economy, with more than one fifth of the workers receiving the national minimum wage, with about 40 % of the workers hired in the long term, with extended recourse to temporary work enterprises, with workers employed on a day-to-day basis and at a time the concern of the PSD is with high labour costs. The worries of the PSD are in sight! They did not move a straw for our country to have a new national strategic plan for tourism and a satellite tourism account, but they now defend each other as being very important. They are concerned about seasonality and what they did was to cut holidays, cut incomes and end holidays, making it difficult for these measures to carry out shared holidays. They are talking about external promotion, but they have not been able to design an external promotion model for the sector in four years. They still presented a proposal that they then withdrew. The State Secretary left and the substitute did not speak again on the matter. They speak of a policy to strengthen air accessibility to continue financing for low-cost companies. This PSD project is a declaration of incompetence to the government where it participated and mainly to the CDS and its State Secretaries. The CFP's proposals for the sector are not disconnected from a set of measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as from improving living conditions for workers in general, so that they can exercise their right to leisure. Just as tourism has a strategic importance for the country, the proposal of the CFP also aims to maintain strategic sectors such as transport in the hands of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u134	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u135	The CFP will always be next to the productive sectors, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, their workers, their viability and fair distribution of the wealth produced. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u136	For an intervention, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u137	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : I intended to ask the Secretary of State some questions, which I will do because, as the Socialist Party still has time, it can answer. I begin by thanking the Secretary of State for the tourism issues and what has been done in the past, but with this debate I was quite concerned about the interventions of the extreme left and its government partners. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u138	Are the tourism agents going to privatize, what do your partners want? Your results are in sight: the destruction of 48 000 jobs only in 1. The quarter of the year. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is not the work of chance, as it wants to make the PS believe but, yes, the result of a strategy that has been followed in recent years. So it's good that you don't ruin what was done. So, Mr. Members, it is necessary to define a clear and objective path towards political and public stability, definition of actors and broad consensus in action. You have fled and destroyed the confidence of investors, how do you intend to ensure that our country is attractive to these same investors? How will the financing of companies in the sector be promoted? It is necessary to create measures for the benefit of the use of equity, creating, for example, tax benefits within IRC. What has the government prepared to do in this regard? in the labour sector, do you or do you not defend the hour bank? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u139	Do they or do they not defend whether seasonal tourism companies pay more TSU (unique social tax)? If you don't know how to do more and better, keep what was good done by the previous government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u140	Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We are aware of this draft resolution presented by the PSD, and we have noticed a curious fact. Do you know how many times the expression 'private sector' appears? Eight times! Do you know how many times they refer to public policies? Zero! The PSD seems to have now entered a tactic that reminds us of the old game of words: they ask us a question, but we cannot answer with the forbidden word; if we do so we lose the point. And for the PSD the word prohibited is « public », more specifically « public policy ». Anyone who speaks or writes the word « public», more specifically « public policy », loses the game. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we see is that the PSD has just changed its strategy. Before, amused, he understood not to present any proposals for anything, but now he looked at the polls, he was scared and it's all or nothing. [[PS laughter.]] [[PSD protests.]] The Government will present a reform plan, the PSD presents half a hundred measures; the Government will intervene in education policies, the PSD presents a dozen proposals; the Government will present next week the national strategic tourism plan, the PSD proposes the presentation of the new strategic plan for tourism. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what are the pillars of this draft resolution... [[Pause.]] Mr. President, I was asking for conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u142	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be able to finish your speech. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen standing back for the Bureau, please sit down.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u143	What are the pillars of this PSD resolution project? It is very simple: private agents, private sector. Public tourism policies? The proposal is that there should be no public tourism policies. Just support the private. Do you need to qualify the country's tourist offer? Labour legislation in the sector is flexible. Are mechanisms needed to promote and encourage the exploitation of tourism resources, particularly in the cultural and environmental areas? We must favour the private sector. Is it essential to value the quality of the service as a key distinguishing element of our tourist offer? It is to involve the private sector in tourism schools. And we don't get out of this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u144	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u145	Vision for the sector? PSD doesn't show it. Value proposition for Portugal in the international tourism market? PSD doesn't say. PSD objectives for the national tourism sector? Privatize public tourism policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u146	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we hoped to find real public tourism policies that effectively promote the dynamisation and growth of tourism in Portugal, sustainable, transversal, competitive policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u148	Thank you, sir. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u149	... ambitious, freed from ideological concepts and capable of involving public agents and private agents in this great challenge that is to affirm Portugal as one of the most growing destinations of tourism in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u150	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has again presented to us here the disc at risk for saving the country, for recovering the macroeconomic balance. It is a well-spoken talk on this topic of tourism because it is still capable of 'collar' in tourists, in whom it has not lived in the country in the last four years, because whoever has been here well knows that things have not happened as they are presented. Tourism is a key sector, undoubtedly, but we want a country that is not only for tourists to see, we do not want an immense resort with an economy dependent on this monoculture. It is an important activity, of course, but it must be integrated into a diversified economy to be viable, an activity that must create wealth and give income not only to investors but also to workers and that it provides stability conditions for their lives, because workers are people and not just a production factor. The tourism sector has good indicators, as has already been presented, but this does not affect workers, who see that delays in wages persist, who are cut off, right to food, transport and payment of additional work is not done. Employment has fallen, as has already been mentioned in this debate, which appears to be a contradiction with this growth, but, after all, indicates the growth of phenomena such as informal work, precarious work, underemployment, what the PSD designates by flexibility and which aims to be reinforced when it refers to the weighting of high labour costs. The state must fulfil the fundamental role of regulator to avoid disorderly growth, support the emergence of speculative bubbles and cool the enthusiasm of passenger fashions such as hostels, tuk-tuks and others. We can't pretend to kill the golden egg chicken. The State should also pay attention to phenomena of unfair competition, such as the undertakings exploited by the bank's restructuring funds, whose cost structure is not parallel to those of the other establishments, and also to false, informal, local housing, which is embedded in international networks, which, of course, also make unfair competition. The city, first, is for those who live there and we cannot allow the expulsion of the residents, leaving the city only for tourists. It would be an artificial thing that would decharacterize the city and end up making it unattractive to tourists.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u152	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u153	Therefore, it makes no sense or is understood that the creation of tourist accommodation benefits tax incentives more than the creation of own and permanent housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u154	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u155	I'm done now, Mr. President. The urban recovery that is required to combat the degradation of the centres that have been abandoned due to real estate speculation cannot only be translated into a new tourist offer, it must also serve as housing to avoid accentuated this phenomenon of desertification of urban centres. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u156	For an intervention, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I must tell the Socialist Party Member that there are no prohibited words in the Democratic Social Party. We are able to say, and we are pleased to say, « public», « public», public », which does not mean « state », « state », « state ». [[PSD applause.]] What we find is that you are no longer able to say « private», which results from this vertigo on the left that took account of the Socialist Party and which translates into a statisticizing vision that does not increase investment and calls into question the recovery of the Portuguese economy. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u158	But more, and the statements followed: they said that this draft resolution attested to a declaration of incompetence of the Democratic Social Party and that the PSD and the CDS have done nothing in this sector in the past four years. Because I believe that our doctrine in this regard was abundant, that I dared to recover the numbers in order to contrast what is merely the proclaiming positions of the left benches with what is the insomishable, insurmountable and rigorous reality of the facts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u159	We are going: between 2011 and 2015 we had more 28, 8 % of tourists; we had more 33, 6 % of foreign tourists; we had more 27, 8 % of sleeping; we had more 37, 5 % of profits in the hotel sector; we had more 8, 6 % of annual growth of exports; we had an excess of the tourist balance corresponding to about 8 billion euros and 4 % of GDP. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u160	Tourism is perhaps the most relevant sector in the country for economic recovery. And if these results are the obvious symptom of incompetence, then this government is challenging to be as incompetence as the previous government has been over the past four years. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u161	We brought this debate here because we consider it of the greatest relevance to the economy and deserve all the importance. Perhaps, the Secretary of State has offered us balanced, structured positions, many of them, and that we follow to a large extent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u163	... but we cannot fail to note the blatant omission of the presence of the Minister of Economy, who may not consider this to be as important as it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u164	It's in Vila Real!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u165	It is in Vila Real, as Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and it seems that this power agenda, this essential debate for the country, is secondary, is not a matter that deserves your attention. [[It's true!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u166	Therefore, we must not fail to note that you have preferred to inaugurate a work that has been in operation for a year now than to make this Assembly of the Republic the nerve center of political debate, as this majority claims it must be. We called this debate because this economic sector has shown a great deal of vitality and its performance has proved absolutely decisive in transposing the economic recession, but also, and no less important than that, in order to create conditions for a structurally distinct pattern, more based on exports and goods of a transactionable nature and less in the model pursued, closed and less competitive, which inevitably leads, in the context of a globalised economy and competitive pattern, to macroeconomic imbalances likely to create external dependence and to secure the freedom of choice of Portuguese and our governments. But the sector, however transversal it is, and is, has another virtue: it has a significant installed capacity, marked by a diverse and quality offer and therefore contributes to what can and should be Portugal: an open country, which meets the challenges with nerves and priorities and which benefits the best of itself, its endogenous resources, its comparative advantages, to build network economies that create greater value integration and with higher economic and social multiplier effects, job generators and investment mobilizers. The numbers speak for themselves, but it is important to understand the causes. There are causes and they were not merely — and that must be recognized — the work and merit of the previous government. It is a sustained work that must have continuity, but for this it is necessary to contribute to a balanced strategy that promotes sensible and balanced changes that accompany the market. And here is the doubt that it has not been explained, and it is a capital question of the greatest importance: in the Government Programme, in addition to other omissions we have seen, we have verified the prevention of disturbing impacts on tourism, in particular on seasonal destinations, which relate to the sustainability of the regions, the preservation of employment and new opportunities.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u167	I ask you to conclude, Mr, because it has already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u168	I will finish, Mr. President. Let us see: when the government foresees the entry into force of the worsening of the TSU for companies with excess turnover without taking care of the reasons for this effect, it will weaken companies and jobs. I cannot say that the principle is wrong, which cannot be applied to companies with a seasonal content, because these companies do not depend on their geography,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u169	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u170	... do not trace the weather conditions and seasonality is an element with which they have to fight. Therefore, when this circumstance occurs and the government expresses this intention, what we have is a penalty for employers, exporters, which makes them more difficult and creates many difficulties in affirming the country and in valuing this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u171	Thank you, sir. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u172	Thank you very much for your tolerance, President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u173	Tolerance wasn't much.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u174	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u175	To what effect, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u176	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u177	Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u178	Mr President, it is only to inform the House, through Mr President, that the absence of Mr. Minister of Economics is not due to lack of consideration or respect for the PSD bench or the subject. Mr. Minister of Economy is inaugurating Regia Douro Park in Vila Real, a science park, because, for this government, the priority we give to tourism is also given to science and that is the only reason why it is not, but two State Secretaries are present. So this is why and not out of disrespect. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u179	We have reached the end of the discussion of draft resolution No 321 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote the dynamisation and growth of the tourism sector in Portugal ( PSD ). The second point, which is contained in Bill No 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce working time for 35 hours per week ( ALRAM ), there is no time for discussion, so we will enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 203 presences, to which the Deputies Hortense Martins, João Paulo Correia, Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS, Joana Mortágua, of the BE, and Pedro Alves and Pedro Passos Coelho, of the PSD, making 209 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with vote No 83 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the fall of the Egyptian airline aircraft and of solidarity to the Egyptian and Greek authorities responsible for search and rescue operations ( RA President, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ). I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with great shock and dismay that we witnessed the tragic fall of an Egyptian airline plane last May 19, when I was traveling from Paris to Cairo, and the number of victims. The plane will have-CL, for still unknown reasons, during the morning of Thursday, in the Mediterranean Sea, victimizing the 69 people who followed on board. In addition to Egyptian and French citizens and other nationalities, a Portuguese citizen, John David and Silva, 62 years old, married and father of four children, is among the victims, and a picture of a company linked to the construction sector. The Portuguese engineer was also one of the Portuguese to occupy positions in a foreign company, which performed its functions with great capacity and competence, representing an extraordinary reference of professional quality in favour of the country. Thus, at this particularly sad moment, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep sorrow for the victims of this catastrophe, expresses its deep condolences to their families and their neighbors, in particular the family of John David and Silva, and expresses its solidarity with the Egyptian and Greek authorities responsible for search and rescue operations. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u181	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 79 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Congratulating on the humanitarian campaign for the collection of food for refugees carried out by the Sporting Clube de Braga ( PSD, BE, and CDS-PP ), which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Assembly of the Republic has accompanied with great interest the campaign to collect food for refugees, carried out by the Sporting Clube de Braga, which started in April and which intends to collect 50 tons of non-perishable food until May 20th, already called the ‘Solid Warriors’ campaign. The Sporting Clube de Braga, in Portugal, carries out an exemplary and supportive initiative, associating itself with the numerous international refugee aid campaigns under way. This is a humanitarian act of great merit, which we hope will serve as a starting point for other identical ones. The initiative has already been recognized by a number of national and international officials, including the President of the Republic and the European Commission, through his European Humanitarian Aid Commissioner. Thus, under the applicable constitutional and regulatory provisions, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes this initiative carried out by the Sporting Club of Braga and by the Bracarians, given the importance of such a gesture for the development of European ideals, which have always been a distinguishing mark of this space, such as solidarity, integration, social support, peace and the well-being of its peoples. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u183	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 79 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us turn to vote No 80 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In solidarity with the peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean, victims of interference and destabilization actions ( PCP ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « A meeting of the Euro-Latin-American Parliamentary Assembly ( EUROLAT ) was held between 16 and 18 May, at the premises of the Assembly of the Republic, which brings together Members of Parliaments in Latin America, the Caribbean and the European Parliament. This meeting was held at a time when destabilization maneuvers are taking place aimed at calling into question important processes of democratic and progressive content, sovereign affirmation and cooperation between States in recent years in Latin America and the Caribbean. Destabilization maneuvers, particularly of a coup, such as in Brazil, or with clear pressure and external interference, as in the face of Venezuela. at the same time, negotiations for a peace process in Colombia continue to take place in Havana, Cuba, and the European Union decided to re-establish a dialogue with Cuba. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : 1 — Welcomes the Members of Latin America and the Caribbean and the European Parliament who have attended this meeting; 2 — Repudiated the process which seeks to lead to the removal of President Dilma Rousseff in Brazil ; 3 — Repudiates the actions aimed at political, economic and social destabilization, such as those carried out on the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, as well as attempts to bring the peace process to failure in Colombia ; 4 — Welcomes the dialogue between the European Union and Cuba and urges the European Council to ratify the repeal of the 1996 European Union Common Position on Cuba; 5 — Welcome the democratic and progressive forces that in each country oppose external interference and affirm the right of peoples to decide their future and path to development, defending national sovereignty, democracy, social progress and peace. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u185	We shall vote on vote No 80 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) that has just been read, in respect of which there was a request for it to be voted on point by point. Let's start by voting point 1. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and PS Deputies António Cardoso, Carla Sousa, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, João Galamba, Luís Soares, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Renato Sampaio and Sonia Fertuzinhos and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, The Greens and PS Deputies António Cardoso and Isabel Santos and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on point 5. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us turn to vote No 82 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — In solidarity with the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community based in Venezuela ( PSD ), having the PSD required each parliamentary group to have two minutes to intervene, as well as the separate vote on points 1 and 2. For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that the Assembly of the Republic could not fail to comment on the current situation in Venezuela, particularly about the situation experienced by our community. It is one of the largest Portuguese communities abroad, a community of solidarity, which has invested in its country both in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, and in several districts of the north and the center. It's a well-known community. This is therefore the time to express solidarity with this community. We can't ignore what's going on in Venezuela. We cannot ignore the rows at the door of supermarkets so people can acquire essential goods. We cannot ignore the conditioning of economic activity. We cannot ignore the grave situations in the field of insecurity. We cannot ignore the way Portuguese people there, hundreds of thousands, live every day in that country. We cannot also ignore the situations of extreme poverty in which many find themselves and which, of course, end up being victims, such as Venezuelans, of errors accumulated over decades. But in the same way that we express our solidarity with the Portuguese community in that country, we do not forget the Venezuelan people. We understand that this is the time for, in a clear way, calling for consensus, meeting between the parties in that country. It is time to look into the future, believing in the future of that country, and publicly expressing our hope that Venezuelans in general will be able to find the paths that lead to more development and, above all, the most hope in tomorrow. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP expresses its support for the Portuguese community residing in Venezuela. The situation of the community is not disconnected from the operations of political, economic and social interference and destabilization that are being carried out and that are being addressed against stability and peace in that country. We regret that the PSD vote does not say anything about that. We note that, in a previous vote, the PSD voted against the rejection of these interference processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u189	All right! [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u190	The CFP condemns the external interference on Venezuela, in an interventionist position that attacks on the sovereignty of peoples, institutions and which is characterized by a deep disregard for the rule of law and the democratic institutions of that country. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP António Piinho de Almeida.]] In several countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, there is a major unsolicited offensive against the progressive processes and sovereign affirmation of these peoples in order to reverse the development in a favourable way to the workers and the weaker layers of society.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u192	The CFP welcomes the democratic and progressive forces that in each country oppose external interference and affirm the right of peoples to decide their future and path to development, defending national sovereignty, democracy, social progress and peace. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP José Piinho de Almeida.]] The CFP expresses its solidarity with the peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean and the Portuguese communities there resident and urges respect for the sovereignty of the peoples. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u193	Mr Paulino Ascension has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block monitors with concern the economic, political and social situation of Venezuela. Our first word is solidarity with the Venezuelan people. We reaffirm our commitment to respect for their freedom and against any external interference. We do not forget the large number of Portuguese and Portuguese living in Venezuela, many of them from the Autonomous Region of Madeira, to whom we guarantee our total support. The Portuguese community in Venezuela has played a key role in the development of the country and is deeply rooted.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u195	I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u196	The Left Block rejects any abuse of force at internal level or through external interference, as one of the votes we have just voted on. We condemn any limitation on freedom of expression and on the free determination of the Venezuelan people, as another of the votes that have been voted on. We hope that the Venezuelan national authorities will be able to find the right ways to overcome the current crisis. It is with the wish of a quick resolution of the crisis today in Venezuela that the Left Block voted in favour of the votes in favour. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u197	For an intervention, Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Parliamentary Group, considering the serious situation in Venezuela, feels the duty to publicly express its solidarity with the Venezuelan people. Indeed, the situation of social chaos, with serious problems of security and economic emergency, with drastic consequences on a daily basis, has in recent times led to an unsustainable situation in the lives of Venezuelan citizens, for which it is urgent to find a solution. I wanted to leave a special word to the vast Portuguese community of migrants, many of them from Madeira, who have made a great contribution, over time, to the development of that country and who today see an uncertain future, rightly fearing the fate of the companies where they have invested their lives and the goods they have acquired with what they have saved from their work. With them are also our concerns and for them we will do what is within our reach in order to find a solution for them in the country that has welcomed them and to which they have contributed a better future. The PS Parliamentary Group thus reiterates the vote of solidarity with the Venezuelan people and, in particular, with the Lusa diaspora in Venezuela. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u199	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, taking into account this vote presented by the Social Democratic Party, I would like to say the following: what we have observed, the daily report that comes to us through the televisions of what is happening in Venezuela is dramatic, it is worrying and absolutely unacceptable. This is the truth about this matter. We in the CDS-PP have a position in relation to Venezuela that is not different from that in other countries. We respect State-to-State relations and never do internal interference in matters of other States. however, we stress here that our first concern, while Portuguese, in Venezuela, as in Angola, Brazil or any other country, has to be—and this vote is clear and right from this point of view — the Portuguese community, the Portuguese people who are in Venezuela, and many are wanting to leave, going through this enormous difficulty. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u202	The second concern, which is obvious, is democracy and human rights. Regardless of the institutional respect we have, it is appropriate to say the following: Members: interference? Oh, my God! Venezuela has not been occupied, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as I know, Venezuela has not been occupied so far. Does the government of Venezuela, the « chavismo» and who leads Venezuela have no responsibility for what is happening? Oh, my God! It's unthinkable, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Clearly you do! It is clear that there is a great deal of responsibility for many things which, politically, have happened wrong in that country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u203	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u204	I conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: look at Venezuela, as you look at other countries, apply the same criteria! They apply the criteria of democracy, apply the criterion that condemns leaders of the opposition without guilt formed and thus protect the Portuguese who are going through so many difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u205	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u206	They're not going to some place to be different from each other. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u207	Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 82 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Solidarity with the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community based in Venezuela ( PSD ). According to the request, we shall vote the points separately, starting with point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on point 2 of the same vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] [[The vote is as follows: Venezuela has been going through a delicate economic situation for some years, with clear political, social and security implications. It is also a country with a large Portuguese community, estimated at more than 600 000 people, including large Luso-descendants with visible integration into local society. This difficult situation has been worsening rapidly in recent months, which is signalling the recent declaration of the state of economic emergency. Today we are witnessing a very rapid degradation of the local economy, with a strong conditioning of commercial activity, in which a large part of the Portuguese people reside there. On the other hand, the increase in insecurity is impressive, seriously reaching the generality of our community at the most varied points in the country. The Portuguese who have been living there for many years are thus seriously affected by this very serious situation, which has thrown many into situations of extreme poverty at the same time as their business and professional activities have been seriously damaged. In this respect, the Assembly of the Republic decides: 1 — To transmit to the Portuguese community resident in Venezuela its full support for overcoming the difficulties experienced, calling on our Government to develop measures that can help the most in need to reduce the consequences of the current economic and security situation and encourage the activity of its most active members. 2 — To demonstrate their public solidarity with the Venezuelan people at this particularly difficult time, hoping that the local authorities, with full respect for the rules of democracy, will be able to find the right paths for the rapid and consolidated recovery of the country's economy and the consequent fight against poverty, unemployment and crime.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u208	Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 81/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Greetings for International and National Day of Combating Homophobia and Transphobia ( PS, BE, PCP and The Greens ). I request the Secretary, Idália Serrão, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u209	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « International Day to Combat Homophobia and Transphobia, May 17th, is celebrated worldwide and officially recognized in several States, such as Portugal and the European Union itself, such as the date on which the long course of the fight against homophobic and transphobic discrimination and the fight and recognition of rights vis-à-vis the law is signed, recalling the moment when the World Health Organization removed the homosexuality from its international classification of diseases by breaking down a violent barrier of homophobic prejudice in 1990. The International Day of Combating Homophobia and Transphobia represents a mission of all states of law, and therefore also of Portugal, which expressly enshrines in Article 13. the Constitution, paragraph 2, prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, to respect the principle of equality. This day should remind us of the particular and identified violence that is still practised on gay, lesbian, bisexual and transsexual people, particularly through the practice of hate crimes, whose denunciation is still difficult because of the fear of the victims themselves. As has been pointed out at European level for several years that the European Parliament has been adopting resolutions on this subject, calling on the Member States of the European Union to adopt additional measures to combat discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and to highlight the role of the European Agency for Fundamental Rights in its valuable research, awareness-raising and promotion of combating discrimination. Welcoming the International and National Day of Combating Homophobia and Transphobia, the Assembly of the Republic, appreciates the steps to combat discrimination in several countries, not forgetting the enormous steps to take in other countries, where homosexuality is still criminally punished. In Portugal, they have taken important steps in the area of equality in the law, particularly in family matters, which is a message to society of great importance, in the sense of awareness of inclusion rather than exclusion. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the commemoration of the International and National Day of Combating Homophobia and Transphobia and the determination of all persons and movements of civil society who, in Portugal and on a global scale, seek to ensure the eradication of discrimination in law and in concrete life”.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u210	Thank you, Secretary. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 81 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) submitted by PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to vote No 84 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Greetings by International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia ( PSD ). I call on Secretary Pedro Alves to read out.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia marks the date on which in 1990 the World Health Organization ( WHO ) removed the homosexuality from the international classification of diseases. Since then, May 17 symbolizes the struggle for human rights against violence and prejudice. In Portugal, the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation has been constitutionally enshrined in Article 13 ( 2 ). that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Criminal Code are criminalized for crimes motivated by discrimination based on sexual orientation, expressly criminalizing the so-called « hate speech», prohibiting the promotion of hatred, violence, defamation, injury or threat based on sexual orientation or gender identity. The V National Plan for Gender Equality, Citizenship and Non-Discrimination ( 2014 - 2017 ) assumes itself as a fundamental instrument for the implementation of public policies in this field, constituting an important means to prevent and combat all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, giving particular emphasis to the need to promote awareness-raising actions, including actions to prevent homophobic bullying among young people. Despite the progress that Portugal has made, we know that homophobia persists in our society and that there are still victims of aggression because of its sexual orientation; young people who are victims of various acts of violence, motivated by prejudice and a feeling of aversion. In this context, we stress the importance of combating all forms of discrimination through awareness-raising actions, in particular the fight against violence in schools, including bullying motivated by homophobia. in this field we recall the importance of the awareness campaigns promoted by the Commission for Citizenship and Gender Equality: the first national campaign against homophobic bullying launched in 2013, the main objective of which was to promote the change of mentality, raising awareness of the negative effects that homophobic bullying causes on its victims, and in 2015 the campaign does not close their door with the aim of raising awareness of the general population and particularly the families for violence that is exercised on young people, in many cases within a very close circle. Today, in Portugal, we can say that there is already a legislative acquis that recognizes and protects the fundamental rights of these people, as, moreover, is internationally recognized. The latest study — Rainbow Europe — recognizes Portugal among the first five in the ranking of the countries of Europe that most guarantee the rights of this community. We also draw attention to the commendable references made to Portugal in the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights ( OHCHR ) on ‘Discrimination and Violence against Individuals Based on its 2015 Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity’ on progress made since 2011 in combating homophobic violence and discrimination. We know that the path of human rights protection for all people has not ended. But we note the advances that Portuguese society has achieved in the fight against discrimination and intolerance. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the commemoration of the International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, reiterating Portugal's determination in fulfilling national and international commitments in this area, unequivocal sign of progress and freedom. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and with abstentions from PS Deputies Carla Sousa, Edite Estrela, Elza Pais, Isabel Alves Moreira and Wanda Guimarães.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 323 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission to the procedure leading to the sale and resolution of the International Funchal Bank ( BANIF ) ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 321 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote the dynamisation and growth of the tourism sector in Portugal ( PSD ). The NAP requested the establishment of three separate voting groups. Thus, the first group consists of paragraphs 2, 3, 6, 8, 10, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 22, which we shall vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceeded to the vote of the second group, consisting of paragraphs 1, 5, 7, 11 and 16. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We now vote on the third and last group, composed of paragraphs 4, 9, 12, 15 and 21 of draft resolution No 321 / XIII ( 1. ( a). [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduce working time for 35 hours per week ( ALRAM ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 106 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a national study on the impact of the distance of imported food from its production to consumption ( NAP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 196 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat tuna bean ( BE). The text was replaced by the author. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 206 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of Commission Recommendation ( EU) 2016 / 336, of 8 March 2016, on minimum standards for the protection of pigs with regard to measures to reduce the need for tail cutting ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u213	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u214	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u215	Mr President, we doubted the registration of the previous vote. Mr President announced that the diploma had been rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of the PS, BE, The Greens and the PAN, and abstention from the CFP. under these conditions, I believe that the text has been approved. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u216	Indeed, this is a new situation for which the Bureau was not sufficiently prepared from a mathematical point of view. Therefore, draft resolution No 206 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) was approved. I thank Mr João Oliveira, because, indeed, there was a confusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u217	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u218	Mr. João Ramos, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u219	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote on the vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote for Bill No 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combats modern forms of forced labour by amending the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 to the fifth amendment to the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work, approved by Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 and to the third amendment to the legal regime for the exercise and licensing of private employment agencies and temporary workers, approved by Decree-Law No 260 / 2009 of 25 September 2009. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 163 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reposition of legality in the allocation of special education allowance ( BE), 182 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the allocation of special education allowance and ensures clinical support for all children and young people with disabilities ( PCP ) and 219 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reform of the allocation of special education allowance ( PS ). The authors withdrew their draft resolutions in favour of the replacement text. At the request of the PSD, we shall vote first on point 4 and then on the remaining points. We shall vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of the said replacement text. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u221	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u222	Please, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u223	Mr President, it is to announce, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, that we will present a statement of vote on the vote on this replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u224	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u225	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u226	Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u227	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u228	It is also registered. We shall vote on draft resolution Nos 138 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — improving the quality of the service provided by the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo ( PCP ). At the request of the NAP, we shall first vote on point 1 and then on point 2. Paragraph 1 is in the vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 253 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the Centre Hospitalar do Médio Tejo ( BE ). The NAP and the CFP requested a separate vote on some of the draft resolution's numbers. We shall therefore proceed to the first vote on paragraphs 1 and 5. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 3. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Finally, we shall vote on points 2 and 4 of draft resolution No 253 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP were adopted.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 73/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Towards the creation of a set of national and Community financial support, tax incentives and social security incentives for foreign producers ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP and the NAP and the Greens' abstention.]] We shall vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions Nos 118 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government dynamize the measures necessary for the promotion and valorisation of others ( PS ), 120 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defend and promote the production of others ( CFP ) and 127 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the government the protection and promotion of others as ex-libris of transmontane gastronomy ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD and the NAP.]] We shall vote on the draft resolution No 9 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — proposes that the National Education Council develop a study in order to measure the cost structure of public and private and cooperative education with an association contract ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u229	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will immediately submit a declaration of vote on this vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u230	We also have to consider an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which I would like to ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u231	Mr. President ; Mrs. Members, the report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees refers to the resumed term of office of Mrs Jamila Madeira ( PS ), the electoral circle of Faro, terminating Mrs Ana Passos ( PS ), with effect from 23 May, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resumption and the transfer of the mandate of the Member concerned to be admitted, since it meets the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-05-20.u232	We shall vote on the opinion of the Ethics Sub-Commission. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next meeting will take place on Wednesday, 25 a.m. for the 15 hours, including, by marking the CFP, the debate of Bill No 233 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August, strengthening the deterrent measures of illegal activity in taxi transport ( CFP ), at the end of which there will be a possible vote. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 5 minutes.]]
