ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. We will start our plenary meeting, which has as its only item on the agenda the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Regulation of the Assembly of the Republic, on guidelines of the Great Plan Options for 2017. To begin the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: on the day when we resume the 15-year debates, I would like to begin by wishing the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good work is being done in this new Legislative Session. The path we have taken since the takeover of this government is a clear path and, as we have said, an alternative to earlier times. Now, an alternative implies choices, and it was based on those choices that we built the Government Programme, that we built the State Budget for 2016, that we built the National Reform Programme and that we built the proposal of the Great Plan Options for 2017, that we today sent to the Social Concertation Council for appreciation. We choose to build a country with greater equality to interrupt the social catastrophe of recent years whose dimension now begins to be known with greater rigour and indisputable solidity. We choose to restore family income by putting an end to the overtax on IRS (tax on income of natural persons) for almost all citizens, eliminating the extraordinary contribution of solidarity, restating the salaries of civil servants, reducing the maximum rate of IMI (municipal property tax), reintroducing the safeguard clause against IMI increases and initiating a progressive increase in the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We choose to resume social cohesion policies by re-establishing the conditions and values of social income for inclusion and the solidarity complement for the elderly, increasing the first three steps of the family allowance and extending the range of beneficiaries of the social energy tariff. We also choose to create better conditions for investment: we speed up the implementation of Community funds, which have been paralyzed for two years of incompetence, both for businesses and local authorities; we have recovered the Simple to reduce context costs; we have created the Capitalisation Programme, so that our companies have more capital and better financing conditions; we have launched Startup Portugal to support investment and entrepreneurship. This year was also marked by the return of the country to the normality of its daily life, starting from the very basic point of view: respect for the Constitution. We have recovered the normal functioning of the institutions, respect for local authorities, value the autonomy of the autonomous regions and healthy cooperation between the various sovereign bodies. We stopped living on a standstill and resumed the normality of our daily life, as well as revealed a beginning of a school year without registering teachers for placing or classes to complete. A return to the classes that almost forgot the devil that usually took care of schools in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] contrary to what some predicted, this path we chose was not impossible; on the contrary, it has been possible. The employed population has increased and unemployment has decreased, reaching levels that we have no longer known for years. The economic climate indicator has improved progressively since the beginning of the year. Economic growth, which had slowed down in the second half of 2015, records a recovery path that we believe will be accelerated. And all this has been possible with a reduction in the public deficit that, according to all forecasts — from the European Commission to the UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support ), from the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) to the Council of Public Finance — will clearly be below 3 % of GDP and we are confident that it will be even less than 2, 5 % of gross domestic product in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We promise an alternative that respects our own electoral programme, which respects the joint positions taken with the parties that constitute the majority that ensure the stability of this government and the international commitments of our country. That is what we are accomplishing, contrary to all the weekly disasters of those who already have nothing more to give than simply waiting for the failure of the country. That's the failure that won't come. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 10 months after we've formed government, we're looking forward to it. We do what we promise, but we are not conformed to the results. We know that there is still much to be done and after urgency time is now the time to overcome structural blockades to our development. An innovative country, with a modern state, a cohesive and valued territory, solid companies, decent work and a society based on knowledge, with more initiative and greater equality, this is the Government's vision for the future of our country. It is the time for a political action focused on the major strategic challenges that we identified in the National Reform Programme and for which we must mobilize ourselves. These six pillars are the key to our future, and these six pillars are the main priorities of this Government for this legislative session. The development model we stand for will not be possible if we do not recover the bet on qualifications and knowledge. This bet begins in education. Therefore, we are universalizing preschool from the age of 3 years; therefore, we guarantee the freeness of school textbooks 1. the year of schooling; therefore, 800 school groups will be applying this year a program to promote school success so that no child will stay behind; and therefore, also with the Qualifica Program, we give new opportunity to those who did not have the opportunity to study in the right time, taking back the theme of adult education and lifelong training as a strategic plan for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, we are committed to strengthening investment in culture, aimed at supporting artistic creation and the recreation of cultural heritage. in science, we will comply with the trust agreement signed between the government, universities and politics, ensuring higher education institutions the stability and predictability of their financing and the conditions to meet their goal of democratizing, modernizing, qualifying and internationalizing higher education institutions. The Government also reaffirms its commitment to the quality of the territories and to the rehabilitation of the heritage, giving priority to the adoption of a new generation of housing and urban development policies because of its relevance to improving the quality of life of citizens, but also because of its essential role in the recovery of the economy. In order to add value to the lives of people and businesses, it will be essential to continue with the state modernization plan that this Government has recovered with the Simplex and will disseminate with the most ambitious decentralization programme for local authorities with which we will celebrate the first 40 years of democratic local power. The recovery of investment is an essential priority, not only in the capitalisation of companies but also in the promotion of innovation in the economy. It is necessary to promote the relationship between science and technology and business fabric, because only this dynamic will support the trajectory of diversification of exports and production of goods and services with greater incorporation of national added value, gaining competitiveness with value and not at the expense of collective impoverishment with low wages. Therefore, our priority is not to increase the national minimum wage, but to increase the national minimum wage and invest in Industry 4.0 and Startup Portugal programs, because we will only be more competitive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But an economy that wants to be competitive, sustainable and capable of increasing the quality of life of citizens also requires a more cohesive and equal society. The income recovery policy will continue due to the increase in pensions, the updating of the national minimum wage and social benefits and the reduction of the level of taxation. We thus guarantee better living conditions for Portuguese families, value of work and greater fiscal justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u3	You've outlived the time you had, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u4	I shall conclude, Mr President. Considering that levels of social inequality have worsened significantly in recent years, the Government commits itself to defending and strengthening the social state, from the very first in its two fundamental pillars, education and health, and in this latter sector we can ensure that 2017 will be the year in which, once and for all, all Portuguese will have a family doctor assigned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fight against poverty and social exclusion will also go through measures aimed at the most vulnerable groups, through combating child poverty, but also support for family members with disabled people, through the single social provision for people with disabilities. [[Congrats from PS MP João Galamba.]] In short, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, bet on knowledge, develop the social state, promote investment and continue the recovery of family income are the main lines of the Great Plan Options that will be sent today to the Economic and Social Council for debate and appraisal and that will shape the State Budget for 2017, which we will deliver on 14 October in this Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u5	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u6	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. We have one certainty: the result of this path will bring us back to the Assembly of the Republic within a year, but already discussing a country with more growth, better employment and better equality, because we promise an alternative and we meet an alternative with results. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u7	I take advantage of it to send a greeting to the ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Prime Minister and all members of the Government present. We will move on to the question stage, starting with the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister has made us here, on this return to our parliamentary debates, a very similar exercise as those trainers who want to motivate their teams and who, in view of the mediocre results that they are getting, will reinforce what they have already said, insisting: "It has not yet been this, but it will be for the next time. Next time, we'll make it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD applause.]] Now, I also want to return to Mr Prime Minister the one who was your vote that next year things can really work better, even for Parliament, so that the government can be a little more effective in the goals it can achieve, after having defined them in frames that are known to all. I was just seeing the Great Plan Options that the government approved for this year of 2016 and, in the head, appears, as a relevant commitment, the increase in the income available from families to relaunch the economy. And there is no doubt — there is no one to bear in mind — that the government's high expectations was to be able to increase the income available to families, in particular by restoring income, in order to revive the economy. It happens that when we look at the economic numbers—and I am not talking about the future now, I am talking about the recent past, what is being observed—we find that performance is not an extraordinary thing. on the contrary, it presents a very similar development to what we observed in the economy in 2014 — and it was not in 2015, it was in 2014. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] And most of the institutions that propose to give some future perspective on the performance of the economy are pointing out that, by this half-year-long walk, it will be difficult—and they do not say impossible, because there is no such thing as impossible in this matter and even because we know how Mr. Prime Minister is friendly with impossible and 'flighting cows' — or not very likely, as the Council of Public Finance says, that the economy can grow more than 1% per year. And when you make this statement, you are designing for the future what you have observed throughout this year. So we would expect the government to be able to make a review of its forecasts here. In 2016, after all, will there be a better or worse growth perspective? It's just that, for families, it makes a lot of difference. Are we going to be able to solve the financial problem of companies, as Mr. Prime Minister said in the Big Plan Options for 2016? Will we be able to give priority to innovation and to the internationalisation of companies, eventually so that we can also export more, and thus reverse the new situation, of the first six months of this year, in which exports have had one of the most mediocre performances in recent years? in a word, Mr Prime Minister, everything that has been observed so far has allowed, with the policy that you have been pursuing, to achieve a result that was not the one that was promised. My question is this: Mr. Prime Minister will insist on the same recipe as I thought he did here, because I did not think he would bring us news, will keep exactly what was the way he has drawn here and which has not worked, or is prepared, when presenting the State Budget, to also present a different vision, a vision that, for example, could somehow meet the one that was the expectation set forth by the Council of Public Finance...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u9	It's your Delphi oracle!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u10	... when he presented the report on the Portuguese situation and conditions for the medium term in Portugal? I'm just going to quote a passage from this report, because I think it's worth it. It says the following: "The scenario of invariant policies presented in this report..." — which is, as you say, if everything continues as it has so far — "... documents the need for reforms, both at the macro and micro-economic levels. The maintenance of existing policies enables, at best, to maintain budgetary deficits close to 3 % of GDP, with no sufficient security margin to guarantee even this result in the face of any adverse developments'. And, of course, it projects a mediocre result for the country's indebtedness. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr Prime Minister, where are the reforms that will enable us to grow, then, as you promised we would grow? We're not growing up. And where are the reforms that, together with the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party, the Socialist Party and the Government going to do and that they can allow the Portuguese to think that austerity, in fact, is already going, as the Government says, that the emergency period is going there, and that it is now necessary to invest in growth and also in public investment, it is necessary to better support growth and recovery not only of the economy but also of the incomes that allow the economy to better pay workers, families, the state itself and companies? Where are these measures, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u11	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u12	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, in fact, I think it is my duty to motivate my team. And my team are the Portuguese, it's Portugal. And we need motivation in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The country needs to recover from four years of demotivation that you have inflicted in the country. We really need a motivated country and believe in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are well aware of the reality of your income policy. Even now, the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation has published the Inequality of Income and Poverty study in Portugal, after four years of its governance. [[Since 2009!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u13	I give you only two small indicators: more 116 000 Portuguese in poverty and a quarter of the children in Portugal below the poverty threshold. This is the result of your income policy. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But I am grateful for your question, because it gives me the opportunity to dismantle three myths that have been encouraging our economic situation. The first myth is that the economy was growing when you were in government and that you stopped growing with the new government. Well, what the graphs and numbers show is that, along the way... [[At the moment, the Prime Minister has displayed to the House a graph on GDP.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter and protests.]] As I said, what the graphics show is that the country's growth slowed down throughout the second half of 2015 and that, since the beginning of this year, it has been recovering, in a way that is not the one we ambition, but that is an reversal in the result of the tendency that you have left us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] There's a second myth... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u14	Mr. Prime Minister, before entering the second myth, we will wait 5 seconds to make some silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u15	Mr. President, it is the devil when myths do not resist reality. It's the devil, it's the devil! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is a second myth that you like to feed. It is that there was an economic policy that waged in the revaluation of income, not with the concern of valuing and regaining the dignity of families and reducing poverty, which you had increased, but with an economic model that was exhausted in the recovery of domestic income. [[At the moment, the Prime Minister has displayed to the House an export chart.]] It is true that recovery of domestic income is essential, but contrary to what you say, if you compare exports of your government's time during 2015 with exports over this year, what you can see is that exports this year have been increasing compared to what was the export level last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And, sir, could I even tell you... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u16	Mr. Prime Minister, maybe we should wait a few more seconds before we move on to the third myth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u17	I could even tell you, Mr President, that exports have continued to rise, despite the extraordinary falls they have had on very relevant markets, such as Angolan. In fact, despite this extraordinary fall, our exports have continued to increase. But there is a third myth, which you like to talk about, which is that this government and this majority have forced investment. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, give some attention, because of this myth you will like even more! It's just that there are two graphics on investment—it's not one, it's two graphics on investment! [[At present, the Prime Minister has shown to the Chamber two graphs, one on investment and another on foreign investment of non-financial corporations.]] The first is to demonstrate that since this government took possession of the investment it has been recovering, because it has fallen along the end of your government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And even more: with regard to the foreign investment of non-financial companies, which you also like to mention, what happened was that during 2015 this foreign investment has always been always decreasing; it was negative in the last quarter and is positive since then, because it has been increasing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, in short, I say to you: it is false that we are not growing any more than we were decreasing last year; it is false that we are not exporting more than we were exporting last year; it is false that there is no more investment than last year; and above all, it is false that there is no more foreign investment than last year. Ask if we're satisfied. No, we're not satisfied. And that's why we want more. That is why we give priority to the stabilization of the financial system. And instead of delaying the problem resolution, as you have done, we have solved the problems of the financial sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, instead of pretending that there is no business capitalisation problem, we give priority to the Capitalisation Programme so that companies can be capitalised, have the conditions to invest and have the conditions to obtain funding. That's why we launched Industry 4.0 and Startup Portugal. And that is why, for us, investment is a priority, starting with investment financed by Community funds, that VV. For two years, for pure incompetence, they were unable to put on the ground. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the reality. The rest are myths, Mr. Pedro Passos Rabbit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u18	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u19	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, if we were somewhere else, I would even say that your speech had some grace, but here in Parliament, I don't think so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And I'll tell you why. I see no merit in denying reality. Mr. Prime Minister came here to tell us that we lived on three myths. First, the myth that the economy was not growing. We were informed by Mr. Prime Minister that, contrary to what is documented — either by Banco de Portugal or by the Instituto Nacional de Statística, or by all the other authorities speaking on this issue — in 2014 and 2015 the economy of Portugal was not growing. Secondly, Mr President, exports have been increasing. That's news! We have come to hear the news that is being disseminated, either by the National Institute of Statistics, or by the Banco de Portugal, and we have become aware of the opposite. But Mr. Prime Minister has other sources of information and, therefore, exports are increasing and the economy is growing at a rate greater than the one projected in 2015! Open... Finally, Mr. Prime Minister says that the investment was falling in the past and that it is a myth that has increased. Investment fell in Portugal, fell through private investment and through public investment. Mr. Prime Minister, it happens that when we look at the data we cannot sustain this either. It is precisely the opposite, and this is confirmed in the own multiannual budget strategy guidance document that you presented in Brussels and here in Parliament and at the time you invested policies that are similar to yours, a little more commissary, which took into account the following: "No, no, what happened from bad is because it was already coming from behind, what happened well is always due to us, of course. We called attention: « Listen there, with so much evil that comes from behind, isn’t it better to review the projections? Wouldn't it be better to point at a different growth? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And Mr. Prime Minister said: "No, no, that's all planned, we already have answers to these problems! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But the results do not show that, Prime Minister. I also look in particular at a report which was recently published by a Technical Unit of Parliament, which, as far as the infrastructure of Portugal is concerned, realized that revenue transfers that are related to the contribution of road service, which must of course be done by the Ministry of Finance, by the Government, to the infrastructure of Portugal, from January to July, showed mediocre behavior : in 2015, had been transferred 156 million and in 2016 had been transferred 35 million. Mr. Prime Minister, what happened to the road contribution? Where is she?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u20	He evaporates!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u21	Why is it not transferred to the infrastructure of Portugal? What is the infrastructure in Portugal not doing? Why isn't that recipe available? What effect does this have on the public accounts of the first half of the year and what effect will it have on the second half if this transfer is made? I would like to hear about these realities, because this is what allows us to demonstrate, firstly, that Mr. Prime Minister, contrary to what he says, is portraying reality as if it were another, and that is dangerous. Have rulers who like to see things like they aren't paying themselves! And we, Prime Minister, paid that very expensive for a few years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That social disaster that you pointed out in the Portuguese incomes was a social disaster which, as the Foundation Manuel dos Santos says, started well — imagine, Mr. Prime Minister! — in 2010. And I remember, Mr Prime Minister, what your former Prime Minister said at that time, that it was very similar to what you said, that, not long ago, he was proposing the increase in taxes, as you now do, the cut in public investment, the cut in social benefits. And the next government trying to clean up the house! But, Prime Minister, there is one thing I guarantee you: this part of the cleaning will even be you who will have the pleasure of doing it! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u22	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u23	Mr. President, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, first of all, I want to reassure you about the following: I like to clean up and solve the problems that others leave, but I have a concern not to leave problems for others to solve... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u24	...and, on the contrary, leave to the other houses arranged so that they can continue my work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I think Dr. Pedro Passos Rabbit didn't get a good sense of something. It is that the data I showed you recently, despite being illustrated, have as their source official sources. [[At the moment, the Prime Minister has again displayed to the House a graph on GDP.]] As much as it costs you to recognize, the truth is that in 2014 GDP has grown and it is true that in the first half of 2015 GDP has grown. The problem is that in the third quarter of 2015, GDP began abrupt fall, and that is the fall that is shown in this graph. Mr. Deputies does not like this reality, but the devil is this: it was in the third quarter of 2015 that he began to fall and it has since the beginning of this government that resumed his recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr insists that GDP does not grow because exports have fallen and what I have to say to you is that the same official sources that show that exports have not fallen have risen in relation to the evolution they had in 2015. [[At the moment, the Prime Minister has again displayed to the House an export chart.]] In 2015, they were down and in 2016 they have been up. This is the reality of the export cycle. As regards investment, Mr, it is true that it fell in 2015 and that it increased in 2016. This is the reality! [[At the moment, the Prime Minister again displayed to the House an investment graph.]] He doesn't like reality, and that's why I understand why he appeals to the devil: because reality is much tougher and better to talk about fiction than real life! And as for real life, it is the real life of poverty that has been created, of unemployment that has been generated, of emigration that has been caused and of the failure that it has still had in the execution of public finances.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u25	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u26	I understand it's a very heavy burden. I'm sorry, sir, but that's your burden! Ours will be cleaned up and relaunch the country on solid bases. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u27	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Catarina Martins, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, can anyone oppose that the elite, the 1% that have real estate in our country, should be called to pay a little more to help the effort to increase pensions by more than 1 million poor pensioners in this country? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u29	I think the answer is no, and I think that, after Mr Pedro Passos Coelho's intervention, we all know, in the Assembly of the Republic, that no one can oppose the justice of this measure. [[Congratulations from BE.]] After the right has spent the last few days with a tremendous madness attacking a measure of a working group that was studying the basic justice of those 8000 who in Portugal have more than EUR 1 million of real estate fortune, of those 40 000 who have more than half a million — it is necessary, in order to achieve these values, to have more than 10 houses of four bedrooms in the centre of Lisbon and much more if it is rural heritage value — after having said everything, they are now silent because they know it is not defensive to maintain the privilege of 1% with more real estate fortunes... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u30	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who maintain the conditions so that Mrs Catarina Martins can continue to ask questions to Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. What is complicated is that the right can come here to defend that whoever has a fortune of millions in wealth pays the same tax rate as the small owner who has his home. And, as they cannot defend it, they hide behind the commentators and do not bring the subject to Parliament. But we must not escape from the measures that mean justice in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We heard everything. We have heard about tax confiscation by the PSD and CDS parties, which made the huge increase in the tax burden to the middle class with an increase of EUR 2000 million when they imposed the change of steps and the overtax, which, yes, has already begun to return and which you have never returned – have you not? Oh, my God! They spoke of tax confiscation to those whom the OECD is coming to say today that the higher taxes on lower wages have been raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u32	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u33	They wanted to convince the country that whoever has his home, who inherits a family home, who buys a holiday home has a real estate fortune. And when the numbers come — and we know that the fortunes are only 1 % — there is nothing left of them but silence, because the justice of the measure is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u34	Have you come down?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u35	It was extraordinary, it was extraordinary days! I don't know if the country missed, but the truth is we even saw PSD and CDS together again doing press conferences! Where did this come from?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u36	Say good, where did this come from?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u37	We know that when shame comes... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, take a little break, breathe and then you can continue. Do you know how that is done?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u39	They're calmer now.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u41	When there are no arguments to defend the 1% of the richest, those who don't pay what they have to pay, compared with the effort that is required to the whole country then come to talk about the investment: "Oh, it's about the rich and there's about the investment in the country! Do not keep on seeking. ” It's always like this. Whenever there is a measure to combat privileges, when there is a measure of justice, the right will say « that makes it lose investment ». It's the usual excuse! In fact, they are not defending investment, they are defending their customers from visasgold and real estate speculation, which only ruins the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This country is not an offshore. in this country you need to think about people. And if the richest of the rich have to pay a little more for the effort to increase the pensions of those who live in poverty, we call it justice. That is why we were elected. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, there are 2 million pensioners in Portugal with pensions below the average wage, pensioners who help their children and their grandchildren who are unemployed. We have 1 million pensioners who have discounted so many years and who have less than 400 € of pensions. Many have discounted for 20 to 30 years and have 300 € pension. These pensioners, who have worked, discounted and who live in poverty, the PSD and the CDS have only seen cuts! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The CDS is nervous. I will remember the following: pensioners who discounted 15, 20, 30, 40 years had never had 1 cent increase of PSD and CDS! With the agreement we made, we took the pensions off. But, let's agree, thawing is very little, because it's the rate of inflation. Just look at how the light account increases every year to know that an inflation update is withdrawing income from pensioners who have less. That is why, for the Left Block, the center and priority is the actual increase in pensions, especially of pensioners who live with less, and that is why we beat them. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, in fact today I had another question to ask you. As regards Budget, we will negotiate, as always, and we are negotiating it, but the question I have to ask you is the following: we were a little surprised with a statement by the PSD Secretary-General. Matos Rosa said — look well, after so many cuts, after saying that nothing that is being done now can be done! — the time has come for the return of income to the parties as well. That is, when we return the income, the PSD speaks of returning the income... to whom? The parties! Funding to parties was cut in 2010 and 2013 by 10 %. at the time, the Left Block defended until larger cuts and we have positions on funding to parties that we would like to discuss in a broader way, namely exemptions from IMI, to which we oppose, and limits of campaign funding, which we think should be lower. But this is a debate for which we all call and which will eventually take longer, but that the Block has never given up and that it will never give up. What I would like to say to you, Prime Minister, with the frankness that has characterized the relations between the Left Block and the Socialist Party, is that the Left Block will present in Parliament the proposal to maintain the current cut of funding to the parties. This is a minimum of decency, at a time when so many people suffer in this country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u42	The question I want to ask you is whether we can be supported and accompanied by the Government and the Socialist Party in this matter. I find it very difficult to explain to the country that there may be returns of funding to parties when we still have so many people living with so little. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u43	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u44	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, even today OECD has published a study on taxation, where it comes to say that in recent years Portugal has been the fourth largest country in OECD. Portugal was the fourth of all OECD countries! But he says more: that in 2015 Portugal was even the first OECD country to increase the tax burden on low-income workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u45	It has been since 2010, Prime Minister! Tell the whole story!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u46	I quote a passage from the report : « The increase in the tax burden on low-income workers was particularly high in Portugal, where the tax credit system has become less progressive ». [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u47	In other words, it is the OECD itself that, looking at the one who was the fiscal policy on the right in the government, comes to say what we already knew: that it was the previous government that increased the tax burden most and that increased the tax burden on those with lower incomes. This says all about the notion of fiscal justice of the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u48	You should study the matter better!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u49	What bothers the PSD, in particular, and also the CDS is that this government and this majority, in fact on a proposal from the CFP, are to lower the maximum rate of IMI in the last State budget and that this Government and this majority reintroduced the safeguard clause so that no family would be affected by an unsustainable IMI increase after the families were left unprotected by the previous majority PSD / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u50	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u51	It was this government and this majority who, for the protection of the home of the family, once again banned the home of the household for payments and tax debts because the home of the family was not protected by the PSD and the CDS. This hurts them a lot. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] The parties who want to defend the middle class, who want to defend the property, who want to defend the investment, who are so worried about all this, were the parties who have increased the tax burden most on the middle class, who have increased the tax burden on the buildings and who have less protected the families that own the buildings. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] However, in the Government programme we have an orientation that is being worked on with a view to its implementation. Although there are various ways to achieve it, there are two fundamental principles which, I believe, must be absolutely unquestionable. First principle: we cannot increase the tax burden, but we must have greater justice in the distribution of the tax burden. It is not acceptable that workers' incomes, whether those with lower incomes, or those with higher incomes, should bear the essentials of public funding. There are other sources of income, there are other forms of taxation that must have greater weight so that we can have a lower tax on labour income. There is no justification for the fact that labour income continues to be a major support for the financing of the State and local authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] According to the fundamental principle, which is to establish fiscal justice: those who have more must pay; those who have less must pay. And what is extraordinary—and makes a moderate social-democrat as I am since the age of 14—is to know that even Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, a very short time ago, explained at the PSD Congress that the taxation of the estate above 1 million euros is a good example of a social-democrat measure. It is so obvious that even Dr. Pedro Passos Rabbit agreed! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] As for the CDS, which is not social-democrat and is even horrendous to social-democracy, I make justice to realize that they feel the pains of those who liberalized the lease market without even protecting the right to rent by people over 65 years of age, who have been given to speculation without any kind of protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u52	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u53	But frankly, it is hard for me to believe that those who recently thought this social-democrat idea so good now feel so uncomfortable with a study, even though it is not yet properly completed. As for the issue which Mrs Catarina Martins has put to me, I mean that democracy does not live without parties, parties have costs and democracy has costs. The cost of democracy is not a burden, it is important for democracy. There was a fundamental principle which has been established, and which I think is healthy, which is the separation of public funding from party funding from political parties. I think we should not go back by increasing private funding and there is a need for public funding. This is a debate that must be held without demagogy, with serenity and in its own place, which is the Assembly of the Republic. I believe that it will be reasonably consensual today that we all understand that, for example, as regards election campaigns, it is necessary and possible to reduce funding costs. It is not necessary to go to the last presidential campaign, just to go to other campaigns to realize that we can reduce the costs of funding election campaigns. The Government will not condition the debate in the Assembly of the Republic and in the proposal for a State Budget, which we will present here, we will not introduce any amendment measures and, if the parliamentary groups decide to do so, the Government will respect that position.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u54	What a cure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u55	But we will not introduce any amendments to the legislative framework into the bill as it is at present in force. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u56	For further questions, Mrs Cristas, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u57	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is the first time we have met in this format after the holiday period and I must tell you that I was hoping that we could have a higher debate, especially based on the reality of the facts and data of our country and our economy. I'm sorry it wasn't. But now, on the matter of the separate income law, I would like to send you the diploma, approved by the Government in 2012, which aims to safeguard precisely the cases of older people and with economic shortage, as well as the diploma, approved in 2015, which approves the income allowance that you will, unfortunately, have to extend because you do not have money to pay for it. But go ahead! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u58	Lying is not worth it, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u59	Mr Prime Minister, I will send you the diplomas before the end of our debate. Mr Prime Minister, I am not going to talk about the dramatic thing that happened to your government this August: the trips of Galp, the IMI « from the sun and the sights » — in fact, we are going to discuss - tomorrow - or the mess that was the administration of the General Deposit Box. In the meantime, we entered the month of September, which is also being terrible for the government and for the Portuguese. In turn, the Minister for Finance gave the impression in this Parliament that we would have more indirect taxes, but then he did not explain and, on the following day, there were other banks which revealed taxes to real estate owners over €500,000 and now it seems that it is for real estate over EUR 1 million. I mean, they're going to give their word for not saying, and if they keep negotiating, it's zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u60	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u61	I would like Mr. Prime Minister, in front of this House, and before the Portuguese, to give us the explanation I think everyone deserves. I wanted you to explain to us that indirect taxes are going to be increased or raised in the State Budget, knowing that indirect taxes, yes, are regressive. You have no sensitivity to people's income! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u62	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u63	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I thank you for your question. I believe that you may not have given due attention to a detail of my speech, which was the fact that I said that the State budget will be presented in this House of the Republic on 14 October. Therefore, it is only a matter of resisting your anxiety and on October 14 will know the government's proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Until then, Mrs Deputy, you can simply guide yourself to the practice of the current government. It was the current government that, contrary to itss, reduced the IRS, with almost a reduction in the overtax, and that will surely complete this task next year, eliminating the overtax; it was the current government that lowered the maximum rate of the IMI ; it was the current government that lowered the VAT (tax on value added) of the restoration. Madam Member, there is one government that has dropped taxes and there has been another that has increased them. We lowered taxes and you had the kindness of increasing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u64	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u65	Mr President, Prime Minister, I then take good note of the fact that the government that draws income from families with children with the elimination of the family quotient will continue with this line and will also continue with the line of penalizing the middle class, businesses and families, for example, by raising more than 500 million euros in taxes on petrol and gasoline, being absolutely insensitive to the income of each Portuguese. I take good note that this is the line that you will continue to follow in the next State budget! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Even on taxes, I would like to know, for yourself, whether we are going to have a new tax on property, whether it is on real estate or whether it is also on real estate — the Left Block has announced that it would be on real estate and the PCP has announced that it would also be included in the furniture — if you want to spy on the accounts of all Portuguese above 50 000 € to bring together everything and, in the background, make a new tax on wealth and also how much you want to raise with this new tax, if it is that it will exist. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u66	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u67	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, 500 million euros is a good number, but do you know what that value is? This is the value that we returned most to the Portuguese families this year, compared to what the PSD/CDS government returned the previous year. We are returning EUR 500 million to Portuguese families! [[P.S.'s applause.]] She is familiar with the Government's programme for the introduction of progressiveness in the IMI. Technically, is it a progressiveity in the IMI or a state spill over the IMI? What is your base of incidence? What are the exceptions? Does it cover buildings that are leased or covers only buildings that are not leased? Does it cover natural people or just collective people? Or does it cover only natural people and not collective people? What's the fee? Are you going to require more € 20, plus € 200, plus € 2000 per year? What's the amount? The honourable Member does not know and who has been discussing the matter in the working group and who has been working in the government is that she is making the proper delimitation of this taxation so that it is a tax, first, which increases fiscal justice, second, that does not discourage investment, third, that does not contribute to the increase in tax evasion and tax evasion and, fourth, that contributes to the sustainability of public finances. I believe that there are four good criteria that you will not fail to support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u68	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u69	Mr President, Prime Minister, usually in these debates the opposition and the other parties of Parliament ask and the Government answers, but I understand that Mr Prime Minister once again does not know how to answer on this matter. At least tell others not to talk. In view of this insurgent silence from the government, you can be sure that many people have already taken their money from the bank, many have already stopped buying home in Portugal, many have stopped thinking about coming here. It's hard to hear, but it's true! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, if EUR 500 million was returned to the families this year, it was on account of the tax breakdown last year, approved by the previous Government, particularly in the family allowance. The EUR 500 million that were withdrawn from families and businesses this year, by the rate of gas oil and gasoline, were proposed and introduced by VV. Ex.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u70	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u71	So, as far as 500 million is concerned, we're talking. But let me tell you that if, in fact, there is so much interest in introducing fiscal justice, getting everywhere, taxing everything and everyone and creating gradualism, then I think, Prime Minister, that you should give the example and approve the proposal that the CDS will present in the State Budget, so that political parties will also be included in this effort,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u72	... that a progressive IMI may search for the richest parties, so that all contribute to this IMI payment effort. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let me ask you, Prime Minister, because you did not answer me, if you really believe that a couple who worked 20 years and who managed to save 2500 € per year, now having a bank account of 50 000 €, is suspected of tax escape.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u73	It's for Dr. Mariana!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u74	I also wanted to know if an emigrant who worked through life out there, who sent his savings here, who managed to have an account of €50,000, is also suspected of escaping the tax. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u75	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let's start right at the end. For the immigrant, who is probably not resident, a directive which was adopted in time of VV shall apply. Ex.as were government and it was precisely obliged to introduce this measure for the monitoring of the accounts of non-residents, in the same way as its Government which signed the agreement with the United States, which also requires the introduction of this measure. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] With regard to monitoring, what we aim at in the diploma is simply to ensure and comply with all the requirements set by the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) so that there is no unduly known data, but sufficient and necessarily known data for combating fraud and tax evasion. And as you are an illustrious jurist, you know well that, in order for you to have access to the limitation of rights, freedoms and guarantees, in addition to the principle of necessity, the principle of proportionality is also needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u77	The CDS doesn't connect to these things!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u78	We know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u79	Therefore, curiosity is not enough, there is a need for good reasons for access. Madam Member, there is one thing I would like you to record: in fact, there is a profound difference between us as to how we should support families and their children. Mrs Deputy defended a system that supported more families who had more income to the detriment of families who had less income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] As the family quotient was a percentage of income, a child, depending on the family where he was born, deserved greater or less tax benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u80	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u81	Now, what we introduced to replace this system, which, contrary to progressiveity, was unfair, was to treat all children equally: all children in Portugal today have an identical tax deduction, whether from a wealthy family, or from a poor family. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we support those who have less and do not support those who have more. This, yes, is fiscal justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u82	You have the floor to Mr. Mrs. Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u83	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I cannot, with the short time I still have, undo all of your lies, but, indeed, you have already said several! I've told you several this afternoon. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u84	You have mentioned « lies » twice in your speech, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u85	Because he said that the directive obliges us to review the accounts of all Portuguese with 50 000 €, I must say that this is a lie. It's objectively a lie! Objective lie! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I would like you to tell me, eyes in your eyes, if you can be honest: on which side is the Socialist Party today, which at this time is starting to become unrecognizable? Are you on the side of those who do not think well that the person saves, who invests, who creates wealth and who leaves it for his children? Is it on the side of those who believe that it is possible to progress in life, and therefore do not want to end wealth? Or is it on the side of those who want to end wealth and who think that this is the way and the way to end poverty? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u86	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a little more moderation in the use of language in this debate. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u87	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, I realize that time is forcing you to save your words, but I understand less than time makes you lose your mind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On PS, the PS parliamentary leader will certainly talk. As for the Government, this is where it is to be: faithful to its Government Programme, faithful to the commitments it has made to the majority that will ensure stability in the Assembly of the Republic, faithful to our international commitments. And this fidelity results, in fact, from a long political life where I have always been on the same side.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u88	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u89	And the same side is very simple: it is to understand that it is essential to work, that it is essential to invest, that it is important to save, that it is good an initiative society, that it is good a society to manage wealth, but I also want it to be a decent society, that is, a society where everyone contributes to the common good according to their abilities and where everyone receives according to their needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that prosperity generated by all can be justly shared by all. This is the society in which, in my home, I have learned to believe. It was this society that struck me for years of political militancy. And it is this society that meets me now, modestly, to help build while I am the Prime Minister of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u90	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u91	Mr President, Prime Minister, for me, in a decent society, there is no idea that the Portuguese accounts with €50 000 are covered by the tax, i.e. that only because they have €50 000, there is a suspicion that they have escaped their taxes and commitments. [[Sure!]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u92	That, for me, does not fit the concept of a just and decent society. And I say this with the legitimacy of who was in the former government, the Government that did most in combating fraud and tax evasion than all governments had done before, in fact by the hand of a State Secretary of the CDS. [[Rices and protests from MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mr Prime Minister, in fact, the amount of times you have said wrong things here is many, but I will only correct one aspect, about investment, which I think is important at a time when you are certainly preparing the State budget. Public investment — and now I am talking about the one that has to do with its responsibility and that of its government — fell 10, 8 % in the first half of this year, in fact, in the first half of another one month, and was planning to increase 12 %, which means a cut of EUR 227 million. I'm not the one who invented them, they're in the data of the budget implementation. I would like to know if this corresponds to what you want to do in the next State budget and whether it also corresponds to the blind cuts that we see with the famous captivations, which leave schools without money, which leave universities without money — the famous 50 million are still about to be resettled — which let hospitals increase the debt by EUR 30 million per month and where there is a huge deterioration in the quality of public services. These are news that are replicated every day, ranging from transport to health and education. This is where I would like to see where your socialist commitment is for the good quality of public services, for the good quality of public investment and for the good quality of public spending. I would like to conclude by saying that, although we cannot already cover all the issues, we, on this side of the bench, do not change our position or position and, therefore, we will continue to bring to this House matters, subjects we find relevant, which may be important, which can be discussed calmly, seeking to find consensus. This week, in addition, was presented together with the PSD, a very important topic on the registration, which I hope will generate consensus in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u93	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u94	I will finish, Mr. President. I would also like to say that, in the area of education, the CDS will make a legislative agenda here, where we hope to be able to discuss with everyone, for the benefit of broad consensus such as the teaching cycles, the school schedule or the extension of compulsory and free preschool to five years. I hope that in this position we can also count on the Socialist Party for once. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u95	To put questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u96	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister referred to a study coordinated by Carlos Farinha Rodrigues, economist of ISEG ( Higher Institute of Economics and Management ) on inequalities in Portugal and the social consequences of the Adjustment Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u97	Since 2009!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u98	In other words, he reported a study on the consequences of the measures and policies imposed in recent years that correspond, not exclusively but mostly to the period of the last government, PSD / CDS, and that much less can be ignored when discussing the guidelines of the Great Plan Options for 2017. It is a study that shows that they were the poorest, the least, the workers, the reformed and their families, and not the richest, the most affected by such policies and measures. Those who paid the biggest bill were the poorest 10 %, those who lost 25% of their income, and the richest 10 % lost only half. This study shows that it was the most vulnerable families — their children, the unemployed who depended on social benefits for their survival, who saw them reduced or cut — who fell more quickly into extreme poverty and who were determinants of increasing poverty. It also shows that it was the incomes of the work, in general, that more suffered such consequences than those that had high incomes and were placed at the highest level. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, this was not austerity, it was a policy of exploitation and impoverishment. A reality that PSD and CDS often denied this bench, which sought to deny the cover of that fraud of the fairness of its measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u100	Mr Prime Minister, action must be taken to reverse this situation and to do justice, in particular in measures which will allow for the speeding up of the replacement of absorbed income and rights, raising the living conditions of those who have suffered a lot and continue to suffer from the unfair situation that has been created. What then, Prime Minister, about these Great Plan Options and the measures that this government and this House should take? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u101	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u102	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we must even pursue the income replacement policy. And it is not just a matter of contributing or not to increasing domestic demand, it has to do with the dignity of people. Before the economy are really people,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u103	...and the issue of income has affected the dignity of people over these years. The study that the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation now sponsored by Prof. Carlos Farinha Rodrigues is, in fact, absolutely impressive: there are 116 000 new people in the poverty line, a quarter of the children were below the poverty threshold. And this had to do with the concrete policies that were followed, because those who are now so much concerned with taxes on large estates were those that the OECD today said they put Portugal as the country that most taxed the lowest incomes. A little while ago, listening to Mrs. Christian Assumption, so loud,... [[Crying?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u104	... concerning the fight against fraud and tax evasion and access to bank accounts for the fight against fraud and tax evasion, I ask myself: where would it be when the list of the poorest was so vasculated, in fact, by a minister of the CDS, with the sole aim of removing the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the solidarity income of insertion or the family allowance? [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] That is why we must obviously have weight and good sense, but we must know what we want. And we want a country that, once and for all, understands and concentrates on what is essential. Our development, our competitiveness, the productivity of our companies is not based on this model of low wages, the destruction of rights and the annihilation of the social state. on the contrary, the sure incentive that we have to give our companies, the economy as a whole, to society as a whole is that it is necessary to invest in qualifications, innovation, modernization, corporate capitalization, and for this it is also essential, in a decent society, to increase cohesion and eradicate poverty, which goes through an income policy that has to be translated into wages, social support and pensions. Yes, we must find, on the narrow edge that we have, the space necessary to do what is necessary to do and not wait for what may happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u105	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u106	Mr President, Prime Minister, indeed if you want to fight poverty with strength and determination, concrete measures must be found that fight it. We think it is unacceptable to ensure, among others, the extraordinary increase in reforms and pensions and, therefore, we have talked about an increase of not less than 10 €, either for lower pensions or for the rest, aiming at the replacement of the lost income parcels. We understand that there is a need for measures to value labour and remuneration — in fact, it is also impoverished to work in Portugal today — in particular the increase in the national minimum wage, which we indicate to 600 € from the beginning of next year, and which must end the unfair measure which has frozen careers and withdrawn rights to employees of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u108	It is necessary to ensure the increase in the number of doctors, nurses and operational assistants to improve the National Health Service. It is necessary to take further the measure of the free of charge of school textbooks for compulsory education, setting it, next year, to 1. the cycle of basic education. This is an excellent opportunity to ask, until there is a lot of confusion: yes or no, Prime Minister, are the families going to have to pay the manuals at the end of the year? This is an issue that could be clarified today. It is imperative to ensure greater fiscal justice by combating the privileges of economic groups, by paying the great real estate and luxury real estate, by relieving taxes on workers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. There are those who, with regard to this matter, come with the old guile of wanting to end up rich and not with the poor, as, in fact, did an exercise here to Mrs Cristian Assumption. But those who say so are the same ones who put hundreds of thousands of Portuguese on the threshold of poverty, extreme poverty, and who have never had this rebuff of consciousness during the four years in which they were government. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] Another major priority is the political action that is put in the defence of national production by a policy that promotes and strengthens public investment oriented towards growth and employment. The question that I ask you, Prime Minister, is the following: is your Government open to the consideration of new measures to respond to these priority options? I conclude, Mr Prime Minister, with some questions, which are very current, on the scourge of this summer's fires, a scourge of years of insecurity and also of disinvestment, which has been emphasized with the PSD / CDS government, which has as its first measure diverted EUR 200 million from PRODER's funds (Rural Development Programme) to other areas. This is something which the Assembly of the Republic will begin to follow through a permanent working group, irrespective of the measures to strengthen the fighting device, of fundamental measures on forest planning, of defence of the rural world, I put, Mr Prime Minister, the question of knowing, at an immediate level, what measures will be taken to ensure the means necessary for victims not to repeat situations such as those of the victims of the fires that occurred in 2013 to whom the previous Government has not given any answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u109	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u110	It is not by chance that we have noticed the absence of Mrs Cristas, Minister responsible for this situation which remains in debt. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Is it possible to increase the number of forest slag teams, meeting the objective of the fire forest defence plan, with 500 teams in the national territory? Is it possible to realize the forest register, putting an end to the reliable conversation of abandoned lands and cutting with appetites around the lands of small owners? Mr Prime Minister, these are matters of great importance to which, of course, we must find the best answers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u111	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa said well: this conversation that we want to end the rich is just to cover up another reality. It is that the strategy pursued by the former government, the PSD and the CDS was to increase the poor to see if the rich grew. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] And what we don't believe is that it is necessary to increase the poor in order to be richer. We believe that wealth does not originate from poverty; wealth is born from work, is born from investment, is born from modernization, is born from innovation. This is how we build a collectively richer country and can share this prosperity in a fairer way. That's what we want! It is necessary — and I said well — to increase production, so we have given priority to creating conditions for investment, from the outset through Community funds. When we took possession, 4 million euros of Community funds had arrived in companies to support investment. We set a first priority: in the first 100 days it had to be in companies EUR 100 million. We've done it! Today there are nearly 300 million in companies to support investment and we will want to reach the end of the year to exceed 450 million euros of support for companies to be able to invest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are well aware of the difficult situation of companies' finances, and therefore we define the creation of the Capitalisation Programme as a priority in order to create conditions for stronger companies, with greater ability to invest and finance themselves. In fact, the State budget will now translate the first package of implementing measures of the Capitalisation Programme. As regards the financial system as a whole, I am beating us up for its stabilization, ensuring from the very outset what years have gone by saying that it was not possible because they did not even try, that it was to guarantee the strength and capitalization of this great pillar of stability of our financial system, to guarantee the savings of families and to support the economy, which is the General Deposit Box, 100 % public, for whose capitalisation we were able to obtain authorization. We are therefore creating conditions for companies to invest, for them to create wealth and for them to obviously create jobs. And that is also why employment has been rising and unemployment has been declining. This is the path we must pursue. With regard to school textbooks, I will have the opportunity to leave a circular that has been sent to all schools, in which it is clear that the completion of the spaces available for exercise does not constitute a misuse of the school manual. There will only be payment when there is destruction, such as risks, annihilation, destruction of the school manual — this is another situation. Regarding normal use—and normal use is, in particular, the use of the school manual for exercise—no, there is no payment. And we need to pursue the strategy of extending free access to school textbooks for children in 1. the cycle as a condition to facilitate and increase support for families in school activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u113	Please conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u114	One last word, if you will allow me, Mr President, with regard to forest reform. We have a Council of Ministers marked at the end of October specifically devoted to this matter, and we have said that, just as 10 years ago a great reform has been done in the system of prevention and combat, it is now necessary to make a major reform in the forest. He pointed out here the basic measures, which relate to the registration, to the effective occupation and use of the land and also to something absolutely essential, which is that there are sapphires which allow the cleaning and maintenance of the forest in security conditions. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] We must make our forest not a threat to the security of goods, people and animals, but what it is: a huge wealth and enormous value, which must be put at the service of our country's economy and development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u115	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u116	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not know whether the PSD and CDS wanted to make more rich, because what they were able to guarantee or what they wanted to guarantee was that no one would be rich in working. They made this very clear! But there was also something else that became clear: they wanted to make the rich richer in the circumstances where we were and, in order for the rich to become even richer, it was necessary to extend the poverty stock exchange. This is precisely why it is essential to speak of the study which has already been focused on by several benches. Mr. Prime Minister, in the past legislature, if there is a word that was furnished by the discourse of the then government and the banks of the PSD and the CDS, it was « poverty ». They never talked about it, but when they talked about it, and sometimes it was because they were being pulled by us, what they had to say was that the poor were being safeguarded in the midst of the austerity they were implementing. Now, what is happening and confirmed today — and it was not necessary for the study to confirm it, because reality speaks for itself — is that the poor in this country have actually become poorer. The poor paid more than the rich for the austerity that you promoted. Another 116 000 poor were trained in this country. These poorer people have lost — well noticed — 25% of their income. This is an alarm for those who have little income.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u117	Wait for the end of the study!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u118	And now, Mrs Assumption Cristas, they were people who stopped feeding properly, they were people who stopped buying the medicines they needed, they were people who often had to leave the studies, because the family had no economic power to pay tips. That's what you did, it was Portugal that you built. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Now, Prime Minister, we have another task, there is no doubt about it, which is the task of precisely combating poverty. This must be a goal of this country. And when we, The Greens, address Mr Prime Minister — and have already done so several times — ask people to rule is also what we want to say. Combating poverty must be an objective. Therefore, the replacement of income, for which we have worked in the previous State budget, must continue in this State budget, and we believe that it is essential to increase the national minimum wage and a real increase in lower pensions. We must work for this to, as Mr. Prime Minister says, give dignity to people! We need to increase social support if we are to tackle poverty. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] We know that there are mechanisms that can fight them, and the economy gains from it. The most interesting thing is that the country all wins with this, and this, in our perspective, is fundamental. Then, of course, if we want a greater and fairer redistribution of wealth, there are certain things we have to do on the other top. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, The Greens will present a bill in the Assembly of the Republic tomorrow to delimit the salaries of directors and managers of regulatory entities, because we consider it very important. That is why the Greens consider it very important not to exempt from a certain high estate tax or until we have to review certain exemptions from the TSU (unique social rate) which have no reason to be. That is, there are legal mechanisms in this country that create injustices and that must be reviewed so that together we can build the goal of combating poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u119	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u120	I'm done now, Mr. President. I also want to say, Prime Minister, that there is one thing that must bear in mind: the right will never comply with the reintroduction of incomes, because that is not what I wanted. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u121	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u122	They will never comply!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u123	We're the ones who took the national minimum wage off!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u124	I had two more questions to ask Mr. Prime Minister, but I don't have much time...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u125	You don't have the time, Mrs. Deputy. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u126	I'm going to be very quick, Mr. President. We are on the mobility week and the appeal I would like to make to Mr Prime Minister is that the Government should speed up the implementation of the mobility plan and the national railway plan. Finally, with regard to asbestos, we know, through public news, that this summer only one school had intervention. Mr. Prime Minister, this way, we have the problem solved by 300 years from now. I would therefore like the Prime Minister to make the point about the withdrawal of asbestos from schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u127	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u128	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, there is something very obvious over the past few years that this debate has shown once again, regarding the argument of the PSD and the CDS: they are always looking for what is the new topic and the new topic to criticize.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u129	Something so rare in an opposition party!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u130	on another day, I heard Dr. Pedro Passos Coelhos censor the government for the obsession it has with reducing the deficit. Don't worry about it! Censor the government for its obsession with reducing the deficit! Who impoverished the country, who destroyed the companies, who gave up the job, who caused emigration on behalf of the alpha and the omega, which was the fight against the deficit, now censure the government... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... to fight for a sustainable reduction of the deficit throughout this year. Even now Mrs Assumption Cristas, in the censorship of investment reduction, she was no longer saying that we were scaring the private investor. No, we're scaring the public investor now. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u131	After all, what we are censored is that we have reduced public investment. [[CDS-PP protests.]] That is, depending on each number, it's going to deny the fiction with which it builds the argument, and it's changing the argument. If you think the deficit will not be accomplished, the evil of this government is that it will not meet the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u132	We've got it all figured out! The government just wants to meet the deficit!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u133	When you realize that the government will meet the deficit, the evil of this government is that it has the obsession of the deficit. When the government can demonstrate that private investment has been increasing, then the government's evil is that it does not make public investment. So they say everything and their opposite, no matter what, just to say something bad about what the government is doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we must continue with a serene but determined course. Eradication of poverty must be an objective. It was therefore with great pride that this government, which is based on a majority, in the last year increased the first three steps of the family allowance, restored the social income of insertion, restored the supplementary solidarity for the elderly, supporting thousands of families to whom the PSD and the CDS had withdrawn these support, and restored a path of increasing the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u134	We started!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u135	It is unacceptable that 10 % of those who work are below the poverty threshold at the end of the year. This is the path that we must pursue in wages and pensions in social support, because we cannot conform as long as we live in a society with the levels of poverty that our society unfortunately still has. That is why we must continue to do so. As it is recalled, the last State budget has already entered a programmatic standard for updating the social support index, which we have to implement. This is not a novelty, it was already registered and we have to carry it out. We must have the ambition to continue this work, of course, with the limited space that we have, with our feet firmly on the earth, but with will, determination and conformity, conforming ourselves to a situation that has to be ethical, moral and politically acceptable in a decent society like that in which we want to live.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u136	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u137	With regard to asbestos, we have finally completed the work of timing, having already been identified 252 public buildings that are of the first priority, of which 13 are schools. in the next month of October, work will begin, not in all buildings, disassembly and removal of asbestos of these 252 buildings that were considered as the first priority of intervention. Now, the goal we have to have is to eradicate asbestos from the public building set by the end of 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u138	To put questions, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u139	Mr President, Prime Minister, are known and are widely documented the benefits of organic agriculture in health and the environment. This row also represents an economic opportunity for us to balance the trade balance at a time when demand developments are much higher than supply. however, over the years, no government has recognized its strategic relevance to the economy. Portugal is one of the few countries in the European Union which does not have a national plan for organic farming. As the Government is working in this area, the NAP has gathered and delivered a set of 20 measures that aim to contribute to the development of this row last week. But we have a doubt, Prime Minister: is organic farming really a priority for the government? It is, Mr. Prime Minister, that we are afraid that the State Budget for 2017 does not contemplate the strategy the government is developing. If the Budget is to be delivered on 14 October and the national strategy for organic agriculture will only be presented a few weeks later, we ask whether the Country will have to wait another year for strategic investments in this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u140	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u141	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I will reply to you telegraphically so that I still have time to answer your next question. The strategy is currently under public discussion until the end of this month. We say that it is definitely approved by the end of the year, but in the preparation of the Budget we will try to have a margin of accommodation for the first measures that can be implemented in 2017, with regard to the plan, which I repeat is already under public discussion. The good news is that for the first time, we have in public discussion a plan and a strategy for promoting organic agriculture. Mr. President. — Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u142	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the NAP will certainly also contribute, at the state budget, to this issue, to this line, which is strategic for the country. Mr Prime Minister, moving to another subject, a public consultation was held last August on prospecting and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Alentejo and Algarve. The consultation generated about 2600 shares, to which about 40 000 petitioners are added, bringing a total of more than 42 000 objections to the prospecting and exploitation of hydrocarbons. However, and so far, the Ministry of the Sea has not yet ruled on this case. Does this silence mean that the government finally understands that citizens do not want to exploit oil and gas in Portugal? Will the government consider cancelling all contracts? We remember that this carbon should remain in the basement, not in the atmosphere, and that citizens want the end and not the postponement of this environmental threat.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u143	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u144	Mr President, Mr André Silva, this is a recurring issue and the answer is also recurrent. We believe that it is useful for the country to know what resources it has, but the country should not take any options on its exploitation without this being the subject of a very broad national debate on the subject. As you know, we are now asking the Attorney-General of the Republic for an assessment of the contracts, in particular of their legality and their conditions of annulment. The reply by the Attorney-General of the Republic was to confirm the legality of the contracts and that there was no margin for their annulment. That is why we have been acting with great rigour and the Secretary of State for Energy has been ensuring the strict compliance of the law with the contractual obligations and so we will continue, in order to ensure that no illegality is committed and, above all, to prevent any environmental damage to the areas that it is important to protect. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u145	To put questions, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u146	Mr President, Prime Minister, this debate, which we are now concluding, has shown a government and the parties that have supported their investment in the future, in the realization of hope, in the reconstruction of the country, and, on the other hand, those who continue only to engage in the demolition of the government and in the restoration of the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are concluding a debate in which, more than on previous occasions, the disorientation and radicalism that are currently characterizing the opposition have become clear. So here is a suggestion: they excuse the PSD and the CDS from returning to the excavation of radicalism that does not convince anyone with this conversation that the government is on the radical left. [[And isn't it?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u147	It's not from the radical left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u148	No, it's next!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u149	...as I think the right is not yet from the radical right,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... although it has repeated episodes of preferences by radical literature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u150	That's radically bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u151	And we can talk about the Socialist Party too. The Portuguese know the Socialist Party, they know that we are the left of the center, from which the PSD deviated, betraying its founders. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u152	Know it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u153	And they also know we're the center of the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u154	On the right of the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u155	The left that raises the alternative, the left driving force of the proposal of a government of change, the left of the dignity of the people and the state, the left of the reconciliation and voluntary search for justice. And we are very proud of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to share the confidence and initiative of other parties on the left in this journey of change that we are making in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Parliamentary right or other one who knows: in the government, as in the PS, we don't scare, nor harm, owners, small or large capitalists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u156	What an idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u157	... but we're afraid of being greedy and not conforming to poverty, as we don't conform to inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not confronted with the exclusion of social rights from those who have less resources, as we are not confronted with the exclusion of social responsibility from those who have more than most of all others together. Mr President and Mr Prime Minister, we know long ago that the private initiative has to be valued and helped, particularly in a situation that results from a prolonged period in which it has been successively damaged and martyred by a government that has always claimed this initiative. We know for a long time that poverty and inequality are always together and that we have to fight both. These are the government's fights, not radicalism. Radicals are those who ignore these differences and this condition of people in a country full of poor people, with a rate of child poverty above 25% and, above all, in a country in which the lowest wages were paid the most by the right government, leading to its maximum: in the previous government, a tax martyrdom was launched against the families of the lowest incomes, following the idea that those who have less pay more and those who have less pay less.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u158	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u159	Mr. Prime Minister, we all know, and the indicators are there to remember, that we inherited a destroyed economy, impoverished families, inhumane situations. And the cleaning of these knots, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, is exactly what we have to do now. We inherited a high debt and a degraded financial system, complicating companies and inhibiting private investment. And even at the international level, suspicious institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund, are already on the fifth or sixth review of the growth of the world economy. It is in this context of difficulty, inherited from the management of the previous government, and within an international crisis, that we are committed to the recovery of our country and that we must overcome the challenges we face. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Prime Minister, what is also concluded by this debate is that, after all, what the opposition has failed is progress shown here and that they are inexorable. PSD and CDS do not disguise their Azedume whenever a good result is shown...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u160	But what good result? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u161	Where did that go? Where did that happen?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u162	...or that one of his evil aggressors is not met. They do not admit and even seem to have aversion to hear that unemployment has reached the lowest rate since the third quarter of 2010 ; that employment has always been growing since the beginning of this year ; that Portugal, following Denmark, Austria and Sweden, is the country where the most unemployed have found employment ; that after all, the economy has grown in chains lately, more than it has happened in the two quarters of last year and even in the first quarter of this year ; that the economic climate indicator has improved in July and August ; that the number of insolvencys in the first quarter of this year is the lowest in the last four years ;... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... that the budget deficit is running well, when, last year, it went wrong, making the country risk the European Union's sanctions ; that the government has increased Portuguese income, increased wages in the private sector or changed working hours in the public sector while at the same time undermining unemployment and public spending and working business capitalization. That's what PSD and CDS don't want to hear and, above all, they don't want the Portuguese to hear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the opposition has shown here to appear to be experiencing a fiscal obsession: it does everything so that the government is not understanding that the tax burden is being reduced and reverse the huge increase in PSD / CDS government taxes, which has increased all taxes, I repeat, all taxes, excluding only a decrease in IRC in 2015, and today it is still known, as it has already been pointed out, that this tax burden has reached, above all, people with lower incomes. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, the PSD and the CDS — the CDS passing through the raindrops, to see if the advantages of the struggle, still deaf and a little changed, by the leadership of the Portuguese right, have shown here that they even seem to have horror at the normality we are living.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u163	Don't! We have horror that's what's happening! We have horror of disrespect for the economy! We have horror of disrespect for people!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u164	They are indignant at the fact that the unions recognize that the opening of the school year occurred normally! Where'd you ever see that? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The PSD and the CDS are outraged by the fact that the partners of the justice system demonstrate their confidence in the opening of the judicial year, in contrast to what happened in all previous years. Indignant with that! Where'd that ever happen? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u165	Deceive yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u166	Finally, Mr President and Mr Prime Minister, with one final note: this debate has shown that the opposition is still blinded by jealousy. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] I'm jealous of each other, we know,... [[Jealousy?! What a fool!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u167	...but a great jealousy for the impetuous government director,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u168	What's good is you can't say these things without laughing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u169	... with the greatest party of the opposition, the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u170	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u171	... no budget proposals for 2016...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u172	We've got, we've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u173	... and without knowing what to do in 2017, not to vote against. One thing PSD knows: it was bad government in the past and it is mediocre opposition in the present. That is why today's instability is seen in the major opposition party.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u174	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u175	An opposition that just wants to return and doesn't want to help reform. Therefore, Prime Minister, it is good for the government to exercise its reformist impulse...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u176	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u177	... and that the Great Plan Options, which are presented here, constitute a strategic reference tool and stability. That is what needs to be emphasized, that is the constructive sense that we have to demonstrate to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u178	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u179	Mr President, Mr. Carlos César, thank you for your words. You can be sure we don't need to distract ourselves from the one that's our mission. We don't even have to read the Lisbon street guide in a hurry to get to know the city, nor are we distracted from reading books of Mexicans that we were invited to present. We can focus on the governance of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And to focus on the governance of the country is, despite the voice of such an uncomfortable opposition, to do what is essential, that is, to focus on the implementation of our National Reform Programme, which consists of giving priority to the qualifications of all, extending and betting on the universalization of preschool children up to 3 years old and at the same time launching the Qualifica Programme, to create a new opportunity for those who, adults, have to have a new chance to acquire the necessary knowledge and training throughout life. It also consists of betting on innovation, fulfilling the trust agreement we signed with universities and polytechnics, betting on Startup Portugal in order to promote entrepreneurship and innovation. The Programme also provides for the modernization of the State, recovering the Simplex and now launching the most ambitious programme of administrative decentralization, which is the cornerstone of state reform, and the modernization of the business fabric, as we are doing with all partners of the industrial and agri-food sectors with the Industry 4.0 programme. We will invest in valuing the territory, with, inter alia, the policies of the sea, on the basis of the report which, tomorrow, will be presented to the Territorial Concertation Council and which was produced by the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior in the partnership we have developed with the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira for the development of the regions. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] We will also invest in the capitalisation of companies, in what is essential, in order to create conditions for healthy balance sheet companies that allow them to invest with their own capital or to have better access to finance. Finally, we will be fighting for cohesion and poverty eradication, with all the measures that we must continue to develop in our income policy, the value of wages, pensions and social support, as well as the development of fundamental public services for greater equal opportunities and greater support for families, including the National Health Service and the public school. That is why we invest in free school textbooks and we will extend this measure to other years, beyond 1. the year of 1. the cycle. That is why we invest in primary health care, with new valences in oral health, ensuring, for the first time, next year, a family doctor for all Portuguese, but also investing in new continuous care beds — until the end of this year we will have 685 new continuous care beds. This is how we will be doing the reforms that solve the structural problems of our development. And in each of these reforms we manage our public accounts to have healthier finances, intelligently. Healthy finances cannot increase taxes on all but, yes, reducing taxes on the middle class, as we did with the elimination of overtax in the IRS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Healthy finances are able to spend less and, above all, better, because it is not spent well by simply closing down services and depriving the populations of essential services, but by developing primary care networks, which prevent so many from having to go to the hospital, or from continuing care, which prevent so many from having to continue in the hospital. thus, we can have better provision of health services, with less costs for the taxpayer and greater balance of our public finances. That's what we're focused on, and that's how we have to go on. And we must continue with great coldness and steel nerves, because, as I said, the opposition is disorientated.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u180	We're not, no! You're out of your mind! The gentlemen and the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u181	The opposition criticizes us because we want to control the deficit, as it criticizes us because we reduce public investment. And it is the same opposition that had as a great objective that the public investment was replaced by the private and that did no more than say that everything was done in the name of the deficit reduction. An opposition so disoriented that, instead of appealing to God, he only trusts the devil to see if he has any salvation to present to the Country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] In addition to the huge nerve that causes them to have this behavior of permanent irritation, clirpation, voice, with enormous difficulty listening to the numbers of reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u182	Lies!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u183	... and against the myths that have been building, what became clear in this debate is that it is a myth that there is no growth, because today we are growing more than we were when the previous government ceased to function, it is a myth that exports are not increasing, because today exports are rising more than they were coming down at the end of the previous government's mandate. Today, investment is greater than that which was happening at the end of the previous government's term of office and, above all, foreign investment is much greater than that which was registered during the last year under the governance of the previous government, which has always been declining. This is reality, the rest are myths with which the right seeks to encourage against what is reality. Therefore, Mr President, we have a very demanding new legislative session, with the debate on the State budget, but also with all the public policies that we have to pursue. And, within that balance which is absolutely essential to guarantee, we will make the change, but at the same time ensuring that the country will have sound public finances, without increasing debt and with a sustained reduction in deficit. Well, that implies choices. And the opposition also has to say what their choices are. The choice is 'now the deficit is no longer important' or 'the deficit is still important'? If we want to control the deficit, do we have to increase the expenditure on health, on missing assistants in schools, on continuing care, or do we have to cut that expenditure, as you have done over four years? If we don't want to cut that expense, how do we pay it? Repositioning the overtax on all citizens, on the middle class, or again cutting the solidarity supplement for the elderly, cutting the pensions or again cutting the social income of insertion? Oh, my God! Don't! Our policy doesn't go that way. Our policy will ensure sound public finances, as a sustained reduction in deficit and debt, but based on a fundamental principle of fiscal justice: who has the most paid, who needs the most. This is an elementary principle of justice, common to any decent society which is of fundamental value who should unite the whole of these benches, the dignity of the human person, because that is the supreme value in any society that wants a decent society. Thank you very much, Mr. Carlos César. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u184	We're closing this fortnight debate with the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u185	I call for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u186	Is it about the conduct of the work, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u187	Mr President, it is to request the distribution of a document and, of course, requested that the Prime Minister should also receive it. I now report that it is a document of the Government itself, of the Ministry of Economics; it is the chart of the evolution of exports, which says that exports are falling. And say more...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u188	Mr President, if you want the document to be distributed, it will certainly be distributed, but it will not make an intervention on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u189	No, of course not, Mr President. As I said, this graph is accompanied by a phrase, which does not give to print, which is that in the period from May to July 2016, exports are falling from the previous year'.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u190	The document will be distributed, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u191	Mr. Prime Minister, it is an official role of your government and not a scrap, without source, like those you brought here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-09-22.u192	Mr President, all the documents you have requested will be distributed. At the conclusion of the debate, I thank the honourable Members. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: of point 1 is the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 279 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of Independent Administrative Entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( The Greens ), 179 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities, approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August, and amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March ( BE ), and 299 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( Framework Law of Regulatory Entities ) ( CDS-PP ) ; point 2 is the assessment of Decree-Law No 41 / 2016 of 1 August, which, in the use of the legislative authorisation granted by Article 131. Article 140 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) o and by Articles 148. a 150. o, 156. o, 166. o is 169. that of Law No 7 -A / 2016 of 30 March, amends the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons, the Tax Code on Added Value, the VAT regime in intra-Community transactions, the Decree-Law No 185 / 86 of 14 July, the Code of Seal Tax, the Code of Municipal Tax on Property and the Code of Single Circulation Tax[ Parliamentary Assessments 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PSD ), 20 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 21 / XIII ( 2 ). ( BE) ] ; of point 3 is the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 166 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums due by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social action grants by making the third amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ), 158 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Freeze the value of propines for the first, second and third cycles of higher studies ( BE), 159 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions ( BE ), 128 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines as the only consequence of failure to pay the tip the non-recognition of the academic act ( PCP ) and 298 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — prohibits the increase in public higher education ( CFP ) ; of point 4 is the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 93 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeals the requalification scheme ( BE) and 74 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals the Legal Regime of Requalification of Workers in Public Functions ( PCP ) ; of point 5 is the joint debate of the projects of lein.o 289 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Clarify fiscal neutrality in non-conventional therapies through the first amendment to Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August, the basic framework for non-conventional therapies, and Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September, which regulates Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August, in respect of the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic application activities ( PSD ), 252 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Includes the non-conventional therapies in the Health Bases Act, making the third amendment to Law No. 48 / 90 of 24 August, with the amendments introduced by Law No. 27 / 2002 of 8 November, and reinforces the correct interpretation of Law No. 45 / 2003 of 22 August, and Law No. 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( PAN ), 293 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the VAT Code with a view to exempting the provision of services performed in the field of non-conventional therapies ( CDS-PP ) and 301 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exempt from VAT the provision of services in the exercise of non-conventional therapeutic professions recognized by Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( BE ), in general with draft resolution No 465 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the nullity of the interpretation made by the Tax Authority in respect of the retroactive collection of VAT for the services of non-conventional therapies regulated by Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( CDS-PP ) ; of point 6 are the motions for resolutions Nos 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the withdrawal of the reservation under Article 10 ( g ). the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for the Exploration of Meteorological Satellites ( EUMETSAT), adopted at Darmstadt on 1 December 1986, 15 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement for the Creation and Status of the European Public Law Organisation, signed in Athens on 27 October 2004, and 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves Protocol No 12 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, open for signature in Rome on 4 November 2000 only to be voted on; Finally, we have the statutory voting period, which will take place at 12 noon, regardless of the course of the proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 10 minutes.]]
