ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mr. As and Mr. Officials, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin our agenda, which consists of a positive agenda of the CDS-PP for discussion of Bill No. 275 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Transparency contract : create the Reform Information System and Supplement for Reform ( CDS-PP ), I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary, Duarte Pacheco, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein. 275 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Transparency Contract : Creates the Reform Information System and Supplement to the Reform ( CDS-PP ), 276 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, returning the buckets to the peoples ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 277 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Internal Security Act ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 278 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes a scheme for the linkage of teachers in careers ( CFP ), which falls to 8. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 401 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the inclusion of the Multi-Pision Crato Hydraulic Development Undertaking ( Pission dam ) in the priorities for investment in irrigation ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 402 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by monitoring and ensuring compliance with the public service delivery obligations of TST Transports South of the Tejo ( PCP ) and 403 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — ensuring the navigation and safety of the fishing port of Póvoa de Varzim and carrying out a technical study that solves the structural problem of landing ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 404 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends requalification and consolidation of health care provision in the hospital of Santa Luzia in Elvas ( PCP ) ; 405 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen and consolidate the Hospital de Santa Luzia, in Elvas ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 408 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an alternative study for the conclusion of A32 ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 409 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define a strategy of State Responsibility in the Management of Portuguese Sports Heritage ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission ; 410 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Promotion, enhancement and dynamization of the Montesinho and Douro International ( PCP ) Natural Parks ; 411 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the recruitment of nature monitors and career enhancements, ending the existing definition of their future ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 412 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Brazil ( President of the HR ) ; 413 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to the United States of America ( President of the HR ) ; 414 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Termination of the trace and conditioners of A32 in the parish of Branca, municipality of Alberbergaria-a-Velha ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 415 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to recruit and link teaching staff in public higher education institutions ( CFP ), which fall to 5. the Commission and 416 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regulation of Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September for the protection against exposures to electrical and magnetic fields derived from lines, installations and electrical equipment ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start our agenda, which I have just mentioned, consists of the ruling agenda of the CDS-PP and, according to the applicant's will, I draw attention to the fact that there will be a vote of the diploma under discussion at the end of the debate. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP exercises for the last time, in this legislative session, the right to set the agenda. After the authoritative schedules on birth, active aging and the protection of the elderly and the government's demands on education and health, today we propose a contract for transparency in social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u6	They are all topics that place people and their interests at the heart of the policy priority of the CDS-PP. We know that the issue divides this Parliament and therefore we do not present all the proposals on everything we think about the social security system, but only what we believe to be a step towards improving people's lives. We therefore focus on what can unite us and not on what separates us. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This project is not, nor is it intended, on the sustainability of the social security system, on the form of payment of current pensions. So little is about how to reform the pension system. The aim is only to give more information and transparency to Portuguese about their future pensions, to give more importance to saving and saving and to strengthen the freedom of choice of taxpayers in managing discounts for social security. That is why we propose this transparency contract with the opening up of those who defend consensus and stability and prefer a gradual policy in this area. This is Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge we all face: do we assume, or not, what is there much to do in the pension system? Do we want to contribute to your solution or not? Should we, or should we not, contribute to consensus on predictability in social security? Do we want solutions or simply confrontation? Do we want proposals or just criticism? Well, in the CDS-PP, we certainly want solutions and, therefore, we are presenting concrete proposals that can be discussed and approved here and in the context of social consultation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We know that most Portuguese are unaware of the pension system, how it works and what values it will achieve in the future, so we argue that the State must strengthen the transparency of the system so that people can manage their conscious and informed future. We really believe it is a state obligation, that the state owes it to them — information and transparency — so that the choices are truly free. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, aware of the undeniable scientific advances in recent decades, we know that Europe faces a phenomenon of "double ageing", i.e. aging at the base and top of the age pyramid. According to the Europop report, Portugal will reduce the population by 3, 7 % between 2010 and 2060, the active-age population will decrease 19, 4 % in the same period and the population over 65 will increase 71, 2 % also between 2010 and 2060. On the other hand, economic growth in recent years has not been sufficient to generate contributions and contributions that compensate for this demographic trend. Moreover, several independent studies point out that the rate of replacement, i.e. the percentage of salary reflected in the pension value, will be substantially reduced in the coming decades and in all, I repeat, all wage scales. And if, today, Portuguese reformers are entitled to a net pension of between 87, 7 % and 89, 5 % of their net salary of IRS and TSU, depending on income levels, according to OECD these rates will fall significantly to levels below 60 %. It is therefore necessary for future pensioners to have real knowledge of what may happen to the value of their pension. in this project is also what we intend to do, starting from the pillars of the current system: the public social security distribution, the complementary, which comprises a Public Capitalization Regime (RPC), and the collective and individual initiative regime. But we encourage savings and increase the autonomy and freedom of choice of taxpayers, who must choose where they invest their money: in the public system, in the private system or in the mutualist. Furthermore, a number of countries have introduced reforms including measures to promote and support this capitalisation system and Portugal has already had a public regime that works as a saving to reinforce the pension when the worker retires. in this system, monthly discounts are converted into reform certificates that are capitalized over time and, when the person retires, he can receive the accumulated value only once or, if he prefers, in monthly. For the CDS-PP it is important that more information be given to Portuguese about this system, about how it works and about the options they can choose, in particular on a voluntary basis using an additional mechanism to public, private or mutual capitalisation. Therefore we propose the creation of virtual individual accounts in the current distribution system and the creation of the supplement for reform in the current capitalization pillar. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And through an information system for reform, based on virtual individual accounts, it will be possible to estimate the future pension of each citizen and to transmit this information annually by letter, if the rules of the system remain. This letter will have detailed information on the contributions of the worker, the contributions of employers, the discount years and will present an estimate for the value of the future pension. At the same time, it stimulates the possibility of each worker automatically discounting, it is true, but voluntary, for an additional mechanism to the capitalisation system, under the supplement figure for the reform. If the employee constitutes this supplement, the employer may make the equivalent contributions, withdrawing tax benefits for both of them. As regards the worker, their contributions will be dropped on a collectable basis for the purposes of IRS. For employers, there will be a compensatory benefit at the tax office through the use of the current account between the State and the employer entities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What do we intend to do with this? More transparency, more information, better planning, greater autonomy and freedom of choice and, hopefully, more savings. We therefore propose a transparency contract between the State and citizens. With this proposal, I repeat, we do not intend to impose our thinking on the social security system, we just want, and it is no longer little, to contribute to making the system known to all, recognized by all and thus to be able to count on the help of all. This is the challenge we have left here! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u7	Mr Nuno Magalhães, the Bureau records six entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u8	I will answer in groups of three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u9	That being the case, to ask for clarification, Mr Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u10	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, your concern about transparency and information is curious because for four years the CDS-PP had the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and was responsible for the limitations on transparency and information that exist today in social security. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] It's good to remember that the CDS kept data unavailable. For example: how many times have we asked about the proportion of minimum pensions in the total of the general social security scheme? Oh, my God! They never told us, they never provided this data, and you were responsible for that ministry. [[CDS-PP protests.]] How many times have they been asked about the distribution of pensioners based on the value of pensions with disaggregated data that would allow them to have this information? Oh, my God! They never made that data. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And even scientific research centres, researchers who sought social security data saw these data ringing, contributing to an opacity that has an obvious effect and an objective, which is to prevent a sustained and serious discussion on the ways of social security. And that's why the CDS is talking about stability today. But, Mr Nuno Magalhães, the CDS was the party to stabilising social security. There is some greater form of instability than changing the rules in the middle of the road, promoting cuts, changing the sustainability factor, changing the way of calculating pensions, including cutting social support, such as the solidarity complement for the elderly. That, yes, is stabilising the social security regime. That, yes, is to stabilize the relationship between people and citizens with social security. Therefore, we, BE, want to debate transparency, but we also like to remember that former Minister Mota Soares, now Member of the CDS, was responsible for the persecution of workers in the field of social security, such as the green receipt workers, who saw successive changes in their contribution regime and who were persecuted when they had debts that were often not their responsibility, because they were at false green receipts. [[Protests by CDS-PP Members Assumption Cristas and Pedro Mota Soares.]] So let us talk about transparency, what needs to be done in terms of simplification, greater knowledge of reality, the fight against fraud, a more friendly relationship between social security and citizens. What the CDS here brought today was truly a « cat hidden with the tail outside». The CDS wanted 'to hide the cat' with the conversation about transparency and information, but the huge 'outside tail' that it left is the attempt to change the nature of the public social security regime by promoting individual accounts and forms of capitalisation, particularly for private systems such as private reform savings plans, which is basically a door to the privatization of social security itself. [[Protests by CDS-PP Members Assumption Cristas and Pedro Mota Soares.]] What is at stake here is the weakening of logic and the principle of intergenerational solidarity, by making, in fact, subtle—because that is what comes in the project they present today—this inscription in this form of capitalization, which is not yet mandatory, becomes automatic. That is, what the CDS wants is to promote these forms of capitalization because, having no courage to bring to this debate the ceiling proposal, which is the real proposal of the CDS, or to start taking steps precisely in the privatization of social security, with a consequence,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Members Assumption Cristas and Pedro Mota Soares.]] ... which is the sub-financing of the distribution system, which is the basis of intergenerational solidarity that underpins public social security, and alters this model of social security. And on this point, Mr Nuno Magalhães, let us be very clear: on this path, the CDS has the total rejection of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u11	When it comes to the allocation of global times, of course, both Question Time and Question Time, the answer period will be discounted globally until each party spends the time it is given. Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Nuno Magalhães, it is good to have contributions to the discussion and improvement of the social security system, particularly the pension system.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u14	It is good for the CDS to present this bill in order to have an automatic supplementary discount for reform and it is important to clarify that it is provided for in the Social Security Bases Act, which allows for a reform with complementary means, an improvement through complementary means. Furthermore, it is not the first time, there is already Decree-Law No. 26 / 2008, which contains the individual mechanism of capitalization and which was approved by the Government Socrates / Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u15	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u16	It is therefore necessary to resume this matter at the time when it is necessary to evaluate this mechanism created in 2008. By evaluating it, we will come to the conclusion that it has been worth and that this CDS-PP initiative is worth it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u18	It was a bill made eight years ago, which had a potential of five million members and has 7738 members.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u20	It is to see the difference between the potential value of this mechanism and the reality of those that it adhered to when, above all, it has a profitability of 3, 7%, better than any PPR on the market. Therefore, it was not the profitability that made it non-adherent, it was certainly another type of situation that it is important to discuss and evaluate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u21	Now that's where it hits the point, it's more profitable today!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u22	It is always important to evaluate, you are not used to making any evaluation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u23	But it is important, at any time, to make this assessment and this justifies this project of the CDS-PP, above all, at a time when the sustainability of social security, and in particular the sustainability of pensions, is current and very important. If we repair the sustainability of social security today, it cannot only be seen in the binomy of employment and demographics, and it is also aggravated by the current signs of the economy, i.e. more unemployment, less employment, less private investment and stagnation of the economy. These factors are aggravated at present by the force and action of the Socialist Party Government, which may further undermine the sustainability of social security. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, it is appropriate to discuss this issue and see how important it is, because it is very easy to be the champion of social benefits when you have money, but it is very difficult to defend social benefits when there is no money to pay them, as in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u24	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u25	And that's what's important to say here today. It is also important to be clear and it is important that this project be presented at this time because consensus is essential for this type of social security reforms. I just hope that this project, because it is partial and because it is specific, has the consensus of the management parties that our previous draft resolution for the constitution of a possible committee did not have, because time will tell us that the most important reform for the future of the country and for the future of social security is the agreement on the sustainability of social security. We are available to do it, others were not and are not available to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u26	That's sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u27	And the important thing is that in the future, everyone will remember that the real national interest is whether we, our children and our grandchildren will still have money to pay social security pensions. This is important to discuss in the future. So my question is very simple and very clear: does Mr Nuno Magalhães think that this project will have the agreement of the management parties that we did not have in our approved draft resolution? Do you also think that, in the future and with the national cautionary interest, which is to solve the sustainability of social security, we should not all move towards a national design on this matter that is so important to our children and our grandchildren? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u28	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u29	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, on the statement he made and on the subject of the debate, I would like to remind you that just one year ago the CDS rejected a proposal which provided the Government with statistical, financial and technical elements identifying the administrative measures and other measures necessary to make the management of the financial resources of social security more transparent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u31	Suddenly, there was concern about the CDS with transparency when one year ago, and this could be determined, there was no concern about information and transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u32	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u33	Mr President, the debate we are discussing is not a debate on pension reform. Mr. Deputies, it's nothing else! Be rigorous in what the CDS brings to the discussion today in the Assembly of the Republic. What the CDS is proposing today to the Assembly of the Republic is the perversion of the public social security system. It assumes the CDS this goal of wanting to pervert the solidarity system of social security. The CDS, in the preamble of its project, wanted to omit materials and it is not little that goes unnoticed in the articulate, Mr. Article 8 ( 2 ). the draft law of the CDS states that « individual accounts are converted into public retirement certificates, or products of other mutual or private schemes, to the choice of the beneficiary ». I ask you what is this, Mr President, if you do not pervert the public social security regime?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u34	Read the whole project, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u35	What is this if you do not privatize workers' discounts, making these discounts the food of private pension funds? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, above all, the CDS, which is always proud of having a huge responsibility, sees its irresponsibility in the face of a proposal that has shown in recent years the ruin that has meant to thousands of taxpayers in many countries! Therefore, effectively, on this proposal from the CDS, what we have to say is that it is extremely dangerous for the public system and solidarity of social security because it transforms workers' discounts into the profit of private pension funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u37	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u38	But private pension funds are not concerned about the survival of pensioners, they are concerned about the profits of the same funds, which says a lot about the CDS' commitment to taxpayers. This CDS proposal makes it very obvious: however much they want to hide, the concern of the CDS is not with pensioners, but with private funds and with profits and, as far as they understand it, the Portuguese know it well. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u39	To answer the first set of questions, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking everyone for their questions. I begin with Mr. José Silvano, saying that we share your concerns, all the more so that I see that Mr. Silvano was the only one who really realized the scope and objective of our project. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] I would say, in fact, that the honourable Member was the only one who has read our project, at least from the Members who have so far spoken. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Indeed, Mr President, we believe that a system needs to be evaluated — as I said from the rostrum and I say from the bench — that already exists, that it has not even been created by us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u41	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u42	... and that had unsatisfactory results. And, in our opinion, why? Because it wasn't attractive enough. What do we want? On the one hand, make it more attractive, with more tax benefits for employers...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u43	It's not for pensioners!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u44	...and for the workers, Mr. João Oliveira! I repeat, for the workers! On the other hand, we want there to be greater information, from now on greater awareness, greater perception by taxpayers, future pensioners. from there the letter, from there the annual information. And we have done so with the availability that we reiterate here, Mr, and, answering your question directly, we want consensus, we think it is an area that needs consensus and willingness for consensus. What if I wait? I would say that it was what was most lacking if there was no consensus, when what is asked is so much more transparency for our fellow citizens, but we will see. Mr José Moura Soeiro, Mr. Member, for lack of reasons to criticize the project, does two things: first talk about the past and then see in the project what does not exist in it. Mr President, your desire to say ill of the project was so much that, let me say it with sympathy, made a capital mistake for the Left Block by saying that in the past, the Government did not provide information on minimum pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u45	Exactly! It's those pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u46	Mr Deputies, those, the rural and social minimums for which you, in opposition, proposed in the State budget, an increase of €25 per month and then, when you reach the government, rejected a proposal from this bench? Is that it, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u48	It is because the Member said that the CDS, when it had government functions, with my colleague Luís Pedro Mota Soares, generated instability. Yeah, I'll tell you that the Left Block, when it has government functions, generates insensibility by freezing pensions of €162, €183 and €215 per month, after the State Budget has sold its opposite, Mr! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Are you talking about green receipts, Your Honor? Who created the unemployment allowance for workers with green receipts? Was it the previous government or not? Was it the previous majority or not? Was it or not former Minister Pedro Mota Soares? Don't you remember that now, Mr? When you try to criticise a bill that you know you can't, you can't, so invent a sort of cat and mouse history of the "cat hidden with the tail outside" — I believe that is the expression that you have used. Mr. Deputies, individual letters and individual accounts are for people who are in the private, mutualist and public system — and the public! For all of us, Mr President, there is no discrimination here, as much as you want to find it. Finally, Mr President, in order to culminate what I think was an intervention full of gaffes — allow me to comment — you say that the CDS has no courage. Mr President, when, a week ago, i.e. two days after the Member, in the legislative agenda of the Left Block, he went up to the rostrum saying that the obligation to regularly present persons without employment constituted a criminal act and a humiliation, the initiative went down to the committee, without a vote, on the order of the Socialist Party, question : what lessons of courage are we receiving from the Left Block? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] This bill is going to vote, not down to committee without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u49	Good, you're going to fall!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u50	When we believe in things we do not have — and allow me to use your image — « lion inputs and kitten outputs», which is what you have done and what you have done a week ago. Finally, Mrs Rita Rato, I thank you for the question and I want to tell you that this project is looking for more transparency and more information, not only for the Assembly of the Republic but also for people. If Mrs. Deputy disagrees, take it. by the sights, he disagrees. I thought the Portuguese Communist Party would agree that the Portuguese could know — all of them, all systems, all age groups, all social classes — but, apparently, the honourable Member is not concerned about that! By now, Mrs Deputy, read Article 8. the draft law, which speaks in individual accounts in the capitalization pillar and not in the distribution. The pillar of division and solidarity is untouchable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u51	But that's the pillar we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u52	Madam Member, to conclude, I must say that there is one thing we have already realized: freedom of choice, autonomy of people's will and the CFP are contradictory things. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u53	To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u54	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Nuno Magalhães. Mr Nuno Magalhães said here that most Portuguese people do not know the pension system. In view of the latest proposals made by the CDS, I would say that the party that took over the protection of the pension system has now discovered four years after having done what is, after all, the pension system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am not censoring you on this, Mr President, but I say 'welcome' to you, and I hope you have informed your colleague, Pedro Mota Soares, who may not have noticed yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u55	He's giving tips there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u56	On pensions, the CDS has been systematically engaged in launching various alarms on the solvency of the public pension system and now says that it wants to promote transparency, so that everyone knows all the information at all times. I would like the CDS to extend this desire for transparency to all pension systems and look a little bit at what has happened to private pension systems in recent years, for example, since the financial crisis. The honourable Member and his party every day throw or try to throw fear on the public system: it is demography, it is insolvency, it is the acquired rights, and then they promote a bill so that people have all transparency and have all the information about the public system. Mr President, I think it would be essential to extend these desires for transparency, information and knowledge to all pension systems. I don't know if you know, but the only public pension system that had pension cuts, had them not because the system was insolvent, not because the system was in trouble, but because whoever took care of it decided to cut pensions, honourable Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u57	by the hand of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u58	Therefore, if you want to even give information on what has happened in recent years, then say something very simple, say that the pension system has endured and sustained the overall income of pensioners and the only ones who have cut were some governments that have protected this sector, in particular yours, and that the private pension system has collapsed in 2009. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, I would also like to hear about this. Today, in the environment of negative interest rates, private pension systems are insolvent.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u59	And that is the main concern of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u60	It is not me who says so, it is one of the main countries where the private pension system exists, Germany, which does not tire of issuing warnings to the ECB to stop this history of negative interest because the savings of pensioners and private pension systems do not stand up. So, honourable Member, just tell me one thing: after four years without doing anything, to promote the public pension system and pension supplement system that already existed, they never talked about this system, after they tried to cut public pensions permanently and every day they throw unfounded panics on the public pension system, given that the only pension system that currently runs serious insolvency risks is the private pension system, I wonder if this is not the CDS going out to help the private system, to try to guarantee the revenues they cannot, extending a public system that already exists, with one amendment: it is today 100 % public and you want to turn it into private too. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u61	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Nuno Magalhães, certainly will not recognize it, but the reading we make of the policies of the last four years on social security, therefore, of the policies of the Government which the CDS has incorporated, and in this matter with particular responsibilities, is that they had two very clear purposes. Firstly, the progressive privatisation of the system, with the introduction of the ceiling and, secondly, the reduction of expenditure on paid benefits, which, in fact, the above-mentioned EUR 600 million that the previous Government intended to withdraw from pensions is only one example. As regards social security, monitoring the increase in public expenditure was the only concern of the various amendments to the social security system. I'll give you examples. First, the suspension of the anticipation of the retirement age, which had, as a result, that between 2012 and 2014 workers were prevented from reforming at a lower age than the legal retirement age. Second, the indexation of age of reform to the average life expectancy, a measure that came to penalise reform even more before the legal age. Third, the worsening of the sustainability factor made by the previous government, which came to penalise, in a very violent way, the people who anticipate the retirement age. Furthermore, the PSD/CDS Government has not even published the door with the revaluation coefficients of the salaries that are used for the calculation of pensions and, with this omission—I do not know whether or not, whether Mr or someone from your bench may clarify... — the truth is that people who retired in 2015 are receiving lower pensions than those who would be entitled to if they had been published by the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u63	It's a CDS gift!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u64	More: the obsession of the PSD/CDS government with austerity ended up multiplying not only unemployment as well as emigration, which are two decisive factors for the sustainability of social security, and which still reflected on the level of birth, exacerbating the conditions of this sustainability. Today, the CDS-PP presents to us a draft law on social security and this legislative initiative, in view of the fact that it is basically based on an intended strengthening of the transparency of the system, and, despite transparency being, in fact, an essential premise in the system, it does not seem to us that the information model proposed by the CDS-PP is the most appropriate, in addition to record that the CDS, now in opposition, is concerned with this transparency when, in the previous legislature, it rejected draft resolutions — and, on the other hand, the creation of a supplement for reform. It has happened that the supplement for reform already exists and has existed since the creation of the Public Capitalisation Scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u65	Well, good! Until the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u66	It's true! Therefore, the creation of a supplement for reform is not new. Listen to the rest: the novelty that the CDS wants with the pension model is that this Public Capitalisation Regime is only one of the various offers where private supply products also live.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u67	It's not new either! It already exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u68	That is your aspiration and it is in this claim that the only novelty of this legislative initiative lies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u69	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u70	The CDS, with this proposal, aims to promote and value products from other private schemes, i.e. private PPRs, power PPRs. In other words, this was the formula found by the CDS, more or less headlong, to privatize the social security system. In summary, the CDS, in this proposal, does not do more than expressly assume the defence of private schemes complementary to private pensions and, being automatic membership, also assigns it a mandatory nature. Mr Nuno Magalhães, the question I leave you with is this: is it legitimate to conclude that the true intention of the CDS in this proposal, as I said recently, a more or less disguised intention, is to introduce the capitalization pillar as a mandatory pillar and, thus, the concerns with the transparency of the system serve only to disguise this intention and appear as a sort of decoration accessory? In addition, he said from the rostrum that this is not a draft law on the sustainability of social security, but that we already know, this is a bill on the unsustainability of social security, that there is no doubt.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u72	But we also realize why the CDS does not want to talk about the sustainability of social security. When it comes to social security, we will have to talk about its sustainability, and this is a matter that requires action to be taken in fact and that avoidance and tax fraud are combated, which today reach very high levels. These are not the only concerns. We must also talk — and perhaps that is why the CDS does not want to talk about the sustainability of social security — about the erosion of the contribution base. in this sense, it would be important to know whether the CDS is available to seek legislative solutions to extend the basis for calculating the contributions of companies, in order to consider all the wealth created in the country and not only the part of the orders and wages. It is important that this is said here. Mr President, it is also important to know whether this proposal constitutes an element for the sustainability of social security or whether, on the contrary, it will further weaken social security. Since we have talked about proverbs, Mr Nuno Magalhães, do you know why we are concerned about this proposal? Because, as it is said on my land, "when alms is very much, the poor distrust", and seeing the CDS concerned about the public social security system is, in fact, reason to distrust. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u73	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Domicília Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u74	Exmo. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I confess to you that I had difficulty believing that the CDS was here today presenting a draft pension law and its transparency. Sorry-CL-I will certainly be disbelief, but it happens that the memory of the last few years has raised several questions to me. The CDS-PP, which Pedro Mota Soares had as Minister of Social Security, to which he preferred to call social solidarity, is today said to be concerned about pensioners? Oh, my God! The same CDS, who has had a « Minister of Pension Freeze » who has consistently missed the truth about pension increases, is now worried about pensioners? Oh, my God! The same CDS, which has lowered the pension value and frozen 80% of pensions, is now worried about pensioners? Oh, my God! [[Good question!]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u75	The same CDS, which only cleared pensions below €262 and which, at the same time, lowered the value of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, are now worried about pensioners? Oh, my God! The same CDS, which in addition to lowering the value, removed the solidarity supplement for the elderly to one in four elderly people, is now worried about pensioners? Oh, my God! As you understand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when pensioners hear about the CDS today, they quickly hide the wallet. Because they know it was the CDS, which today speaks in transparency, which joined the PSD and promised the European Union that it would cut 600 million euros every year in pensions. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with pensioners and pensioners don't play!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u76	Exactly! Another reason to tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u77	According to the public newspaper today, there will be about 120 people living on the streets of Porto — data from the social network. How do you explain the sudden interest of the CDS in proposing amendments to the pension scheme, after having been four years without even presenting any study on the subject, without even presenting numbers, without even assuming the terror that caused pensioners? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u78	During the reply period of Mr Nuno Magalhães, the Bureau shall record requests for speech. You have the floor, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions asked, although, after all the benches have spoken, I regret to tell you that I am still sure that the only Member who has read the CDS bill was Mr. José Silvano, which is always extraordinary. [[PS protests.]] But, as Mr Luís Ferreira said, 'by fleeing his mouth to the truth', in fact, this system already exists and the great novelty is that it becomes automatic, although voluntary. In fact, Mr. José Luís Ferreira himself 'has fled his mouth to the truth', referring to the fact that this system already exists within the public system, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. But read! It's a matter of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u80	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u81	But we've already understood that the gentlemen. Members do not want the consensus. However, if you think we are going to give up, because in these social matters, which are subjects that have to do with people's lives, with people's interests, we will continue to put forward concrete proposals to improve people's lives. [[CDS-PP applause.]] So, Mr Galamba, I begin by saying the following to you: we do not move on the pillar of the distribution. Read mylips : we don't move in the distribution pillar! You may want to read what is not there, or probably not read, but let's not move. It's as simple as this.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u82	I said come down!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u83	Then, honourable Member, as I said, and I will repeat, we are not talking about the sustainability of social security. But that should concern you, Mr President. And you know why you should worry about it? Because the report annexed to the Government's State Budget, on page 13, says : « The social security system shows a deficit from 2020 ». Does this concern you or not? We're worried. But that is not what we want to do, Mr President. I wouldn't have that light when I look at this issue. Then, Mr. Deputy, did you talk about cutting off pensions? Oh, my God! ...I don't want to talk about the past, but I can't resist reminding you of point 6 of the Memorandum of Understanding. Do you remember who signed it from? It was the Socialist Party that signed it. In fact, it was the Socialist Party that caused it. The honourable Member then defended the former Government of Eng. José Socrates. Do you remember that? That is why, in fact, we cut the pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u84	600 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u85	Mr President, there would be more humility, even because what is at stake here — and you certainly read, you certainly recognize, but, for reasons I do not know, you cannot recognise — it is only to give greater transparency, greater confidence and greater information to people in all systems, in particular to the public. Then the gentlemen. Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mr Domicília Costa spoke again of the 600 million euros. Once again, I didn't want to talk about the past, but Mr. Members voted on the stability plan. Indeed, at the initiative of the CDS, Mr. Members of the Left Block, The Greens, the CFP and the PS were obliged to vote on the stability plan. And Mrs Domicília Costa voted favourably, for example, on page 13 of this stability plan, which reads as follows: « Expenditure on social benefits should be reduced by 0.9 percentage points of GDP ». Madam Member, if we consider GDP at EUR 180 billion, a cut, which both the honourable Member and the honourable Member have approved, of 0, 9 % of this value, means more than EUR 1, 6 billion, that is, much more than the 600 million that you so greatly appreciate. So don't talk about the past, talk about the present, talk about your responsibilities and, above all, talk about what you want or don't want to do so that there will be more and better pensions in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u86	Did anyone propose cuts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u87	Mrs Domicília Costa was still talking about the freezing of pensions. Madam Member, once again, I repeat: the Left Block, a year ago, in the State Budget, proposes an increase of 25 € / month for people who take minimum pensions, social and rural. How much did they propose in this State budget once they came to power?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u88	37%!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u89	Zero, Mrs. Member! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u90	37%!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u91	It's just that we took off. You have frozen and reduced by inflation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: we are here thinking about people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u92	Now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u93	...in the interests of people, trying to defend people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u94	Now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u95	And you want to talk about the past. Stay in the past, because soon they'll be part of it. We prefer to think about the future. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u96	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We appreciate the proposal that the CDS brings here today the debate in this Parliament, because, of course, its implementation necessarily implies diverting some income available to families, which we understand only as possible in the context of the recovery of income that the current government has been pursuing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have noted the difference of opinion for the PSD in this matter and we congratulate the CDS on the recognition of the success of the Government in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS project raises some concerns, other so many questions, allowing me to end with a challenge. This CDS project presents two large lines of thought or action. The first concerns transparency and the second concerns the creation of a supplement for reform—let's go. With regard to transparency, as long as it is effective transparency, we are all, I believe, in this House, regardless of the party, in accordance with this guiding principle. The Socialist Party has been implementing several measures in this regard within the context of the Simplex, and not only. Whenever the PS passes through the government, in fact, leaves a mark of deburocratization and dematerialization of the State trade mark. We believe in the state, we believe in good public services and public services that deserve the trust of citizens. Today, there is already the possibility of consultation by any citizen of his/her account in direct social security. Information is available, among many others, on the years of discounts, on their amounts and on the salary which has been the subject of discounts. But nevertheless, the Socialist Party has more measures that it considers to be more reliable and more transparent for the taxpayer, better for all citizens, as is the case with the measures we introduced in our Government Programme, such as the Par and Pass Pension, a simulator that will allow you to consult on the Internet the value of the future pension in the face of the legal rules in force and implement new features that allow you to consult the contributing career and the history of benefits taken, forecast the value of the pension to be received and online submission of requests. So let us ask ourselves whether you really want a simple information system. We doubt it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. And we doubt that, because your entire project is untied from the list of best-known features of the Swedish pension model. A Portuguese version of the Swedish 'orange envelope' is provided(the name is even that, Mrs. Members, who is here referred to as « Designed Annual Charter », but rules are presented which, if approved, could result in a profound reform of Portuguese public social security, namely a model of distribution with virtual capitalization of individual accounts. On the other hand, the CDS, by proposing in this project that « the value of the virtual individual account and the estimate of the future pension are updated annually, according to a reference basis to be defined in its own regulation », is assuming that each government establishes by decree, each year, the evolution of the long-term variables that influence the value of the future pension. Now, the CDS has to say how it intends to do it, how it can do it. Would you say, for example, that a certain worker is going to have an uninterrupted contribution career? Does it decide that the basic remuneration of contribution incidence increases at a certain rate? You say you don't push young people into emigration? Does he say he doesn't keep the unemployment rates he left the government with? Is it by academic hypothesis that a right-wing government, in which the CDS even has responsibilities in social security, decides not to cut wages or stop pay as holiday subsidies, as you have done? Is this where we are? Is this where we are? How is it to internalize all these factors in the so-called virtual account that they propose? These are some issues I leave here, based on the principle that we are united by the primacy of transparency and respect for the citizens, and we can therefore move on to the second part of your project: the creation of a supplement for reform. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I suspect, we suspect, that, although you later come into your project, this is really the heart of your proposal and that you want us to take along paths that have already been debated and refused. In any case, let me say that this proposal from the CDS makes it clear this afternoon: the CDS has given up 'cooling' Portuguese public social security, the CDS has stopped privatizing social security and, therefore, I would like you to confirm here that they no longer want to privatize social security and that they have abandoned the proposal they have defended for years. They defended it in the 2015 electoral programme, in particular on page 35, where it was said: « An effective bet on the development of supplementary reform plans(...) promoting individual responsibility(...) ». And later: « The introduction, for younger generations, of a higher limit for contribution purposes, which, in return, will also determine a maximum value for the pension ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] The same happened in the Constitutional Government's XX Programme, where it referred to « An effective bet on the development of complementary reform plans ». And also in the XIX Constitutional Government Programme, where one could read : « It will be necessary to study and evaluate the introduction of reforms that introduce a savings component in pensions based on individual responsibility (... ) » ; « Study the introduction for younger generations of a higher wage limit for the purpose of contributing and determining the value of the pension » ; « Assessing the possibility of introducing paid individual savings accounts into the public system for the purpose of retirement ». in the famous 2013 State Reform Guide, which has been forgotten for so long, they have not forgotten this and on page 83, it was said that « The reform must admit a ceiling on contributions and future pensions ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do they or do they not, once and for all, leave the ceiling and privatization of Portuguese public social security? So much talk about responsibility and individual freedom to mask what was, and always was, a privatization of Portuguese public social security. Mrs. Members, "who doesn't want to be a wolf doesn't wear his skin" and therefore agreed that the country once and for all knew that the CDS no longer wanted to privatize social security. That is good news, but such a sudden change of opinion raises the underlying doubts. In any event, still yesterday, the PSD said that it no longer defends the privatisation of the General Deposit Box. That is why we can only conclude that the Portuguese right is much more useful to the country in opposition than when it is in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can move a little further forward in your project. It says the CDS, in the explanatory statement of its initiative, that « The State should aim first to strengthen confidence in the system and increase its transparency so that people can better manage their future, generating confidence and hope ». We agree, but once again, let's remember. The former Government and the parties that supported it, in particular the CDS, did everything in order to destroy confidence in the pension system and, in general, in the public social security system. They did so with successive cuts in paid pensions; they did so with the introduction of a complex formula for the calculation of the normal retirement age; they did so by drastically penalizing the early retirement for all workers, including those who presented long-term contributions; they did so by publicly defending the contribution ceiling; they did so by never justify how they intended to reduce pension expenditure by 600 million euros; they did so by delaying the publication of the regular statistics on benefits allocated to the system. Defend System Trust Strengthen? Of course. But above all, do not do the opposite when you are in government. The gentlemen. Members also advocate the creation of a supplement for reform, but I have a new one: it is that this supplement already exists, since the creation of the Public Capitalisation Regime. Of course, we do not remember that the former Government — and the CDS in particular, having the folder of the Ministry of Solidarity and Social Security — has even referred to the Capitalisation Scheme, defended it or pointed out its advantages, as a supplementary regime. Mr Mota Soares and the CDS took almost five years for this regime to exist. He therefore agreed that they would discuss it this afternoon. Furthermore, this is the first time that the CDS refers to the Public Capitalisation Regime, which shows the intention to consider it in the intended architecture for the pension system based on the Swedish model, side by side with other private supply products, but your standards require much greater clarity and much greater precision. In 2013 Mrs Cecilia Meireles, in a debate in the Assembly of the Republic, stated the following : "It is important that, when we are distributing sacrifices and difficult measures, we consider some facts. Let's go to the facts: we have two regimes and they are both public, which are social security and that of the General Pension Fund. Both schemes are public and none are capitalised». Yeah, that's right. It happens that the CDS, with this proposal, promotes the products of other schemes of a mutual or private nature to the choice of the beneficiary, i.e. private PPRs. This is the form of privatization of the social security system that the CDS has found and which tries to present here this afternoon, with which we disagree and in which we will be going to beat ourselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, I conclude by saying that a serious discussion on social security with regard to social consultation is not done with a project presented on Friday night to be discussed on Wednesday. It serves a political number, serves to have some news, but that is not enough to meet the challenges we face. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We did not need this debate to know what is coming to us and to indicate what separates us, but we reiterate it with all the frontality: we follow the CDS in the transparency of the system and we believe that the solution must go through a pension simulator, as set out in the Socialist Party's Government Programme, as well as the defense of the public capitalisation regime as a public regime;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... we do not follow the CDS in the proposed information model; we do not follow the CDS in defense of supplementary private pension schemes, making them, in a way, compulsory, since membership is automatic. More: this would always be an encapsulated and ashamed way of introducing the pillar of capitalization as a mandatory pillar, and it would be legitimate to assume that this is the true intention of the CDS in the medium term and, therefore, it is legitimately the refusal of the Socialist Party in the short term. [[CDS-PP protests.]] If the CDS wants to have a serious debate on this matter, I leave the challenge of withdrawing the supplement for reform so that we can discuss issues related to transparency in the field of expertise and in dialogue with all parties. The answer to this challenge will dictate the seriousness with which you want to address this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u98	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, the Bureau registered, to request clarifications from Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, the PSD, and Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, the CDS-PP. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u99	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u100	That being the case, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u101	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I must say that I congratulate you on the intervention you have just made because it took exactly 3 minutes to talk about the « daddy» of the past or the terrible that the previous government had been, which, given what has been the intervention of the Socialist Party, is to be considered. So I can't help but congratulate you on that. Mr President, on the subject of social security, on a proposal from the Democratic Social Party, we discussed in this House of the Republic about a month ago the creation of a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the public social security system. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u102	I find it very strange, in the light of what I have just heard, that you — and I assume you agreed with your party’s decision — voted against the establishment of this committee. I said here that I was in favour of an extended debate and even called the attention of the CDS because I wanted to discuss issues like this in the afternoon. We proposed 180 days and you said: "Not to think of it, it was not even necessary two hours..." — the time the debate would take — "...to discuss the matter". [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, what I can conclude from that is either: either it has changed its opinion and, in fact, it has come to the conclusion that discussing the issue of social security sustainability deserves much more than two hours of debate, which would be an extraordinary one, passes the phrase,'stepping out', or has not changed its opinion, but the themes are chosen according to the importance that it gives to you and the Socialist Party — there are those who give the PS and those who cannot shake your ideological dogmas. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u103	in this proposal, which aimed at setting up the committee, what we wanted — and the honourable Member will remember — it was to have a serious and structured debate on our public social security system. It was requested and proposed, without any ideological-party mark, that a committee should be constituted in which each of the parties present here, representing the Portuguese, could propose, including what they understood should be the future of the public social security system, the entities they wanted to hear and the social partners who wanted and could include in that discussion. We understand that this is the place that really represents the Portuguese, and this is where this discussion should take place. I would remind you again, Mr President, that it was a proposal that aimed at the creation of a committee which did not contain any ideological-party brand, that "father" which is stirring up the privatization of social security. In fact, one day they will tell me where they have seen this written, because they continue to shake what they have not read, always saying that this is what the evil right wants to do, to ensure that the debate never passes from your ideological constraint, because people are not going to stop to really want to discuss whether or not there is a problem in the system and you have to get out of these ideological threats. You voted against the proposal for the establishment of this committee, did not want to debate and did not want Parliament to debate. That is why, when I hear this debate here in the afternoon, I have to strengthen — and it will not fail to be ironic — that we agree and reiterate, so that you can rethink the decision you made earlier. in the discussion on the proposal for the establishment of the committee, you made the game of 'pass-culppas'. In fact, they do it many times. They said no, that there is no demographic problem, there is no problem of the challenge of birth, there is no problem of the impact of economic crises, there is no problem of complex variables with which we cannot predict and control. There is no such problem, but there is a political and conjuncural problem, which, of course, has to do with the less good governance, according to your opinion, of the previous government. Therefore, the only problem for the public social security system is an anterior, completely conjunctural problem that has nothing to structurally—that is how you classified it. Mr President, in the light of this, I would like to ask you a question. Whereas the honourable Member is part of a government whose Minister for the Economy has already said that the employment rate is going to grow less than he expected, a government which in May has already destroyed more than 48 000 jobs and which, between May and June, destroyed more than 27 000 jobs, a government that has made 24 000 young people record no data—we do not know how that happened, because they have stopped being unemployed but are not employed, and no one questions this—I ask you the following: in the face of these problems which are conjunctural — of yours, of your situation—is there any problem in discussing the public social security system? In the light of these conjunctural problems, do you now want to review the option that you have taken before not to debate the public system and the sustainability of social security? Mr President, justice is done: consistency has the Socialist Party, which always says that it is all right when it is in the government and says that everything was wrong in the previous government, in that « pass-back», without saying « yes, sir, we were the ones who went bankrupt ». And, Mr, we have to say here: whether it was because of incompetence or bad faith may be political discussion, but they have led to bankruptcy. This is not a political debate, it is a fact! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Let the Left Block now not speak of precariousness, despite the Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment saying that there was more precariousness in the first three months of PS governance than during the previous four years, we have been used to it. And the CFP now does not talk about birth, although it has said that there was only one problem in social security because of the bad birth measures of the previous government, but, on Friday, indeed, like all the management, the measures of the birth package that were presented here, including the prematurity allowance, have led to the result that Mrs Rita Rato so often cried out to the heavens and that the CFP has led to make life easier for this government of which she is a member. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, no one already believes in this idea that there is a small amount of condemnation, because when you are in the government propaganda you say they will solve everything, but, much more importantly than that — and we accept the "pass-Culpas" because if you want me to tell you, in fact, it matters - little to us on this issue of social security sustainability - we are concerned that you do not recognise a problem and will therefore do nothing to solve it. So, put the blame on whoever you want, but, Mr President, are you not sorry that you do not want to create this committee so that we can discuss the public social security system? With commitment, sir! It is as I say to you: does the honourable Member mean that it was all our fault and it wasn't yours? Oh, my God! That's what you want! The Portuguese judge at the time of the elections—they have already judged, if you remember—and will certainly judge again. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I ask: Is the Socialist Party not sorry about the option you took when you chose to leave for "pass-guilts" which is the sustainability of reforms? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u104	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u105	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I begin by thanking you for your willingness and expressed here to be an announcement from the CDS about the news and proposals of the CDS. Despite thanking you for your availability, I begin precisely by denying this news that you mentioned here: the CDS has not given up on anything today.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u107	What the CDS here did was something that, I believe, the Portuguese ask us all to do once and for all: look at the concrete problems that exist and forget the past, the invocations we make, and we all have reasons to complain. The honourable Member also said here that we are in favour of the privatization of social security and we have never been in favour of the privatization of social security. But by promoting the implementation of the social security fund for rehabilitation, you are promoting the privatization of social security. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But for once, let us forget this tribal view of things. Is there a problem or isn't there? When a family who has an income of 1200 € per month wants to know how much it will receive from a pension and has no idea, I ask: is this important or not? Is it important or not, whether we're left or right? Is it important or not, with the current rules, to clarify people? I think it is, I think we all find and we have to get together about this. The second problem is also very concrete: whoever may find that he will receive less than what he has thought, has to find solutions. Should we or should we not be with people who want solutions? What the CDS presented here was a path, a proposal. Why are we not able to understand whether this is such a concrete problem and what concerns all Portuguese? Tomorrow we'll be pensioners! I shall finish, Mr President, by making you a challenge. The honourable Member was clear, I believe, in his speech, that he was in agreement with some aspects of our diploma. I launch the challenge: enable it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u108	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u109	Viabilize him! We discuss in committee, in particular, what we understand, but make it possible. This is our appeal, which is a broad appeal for understanding, because the Portuguese ask us to know how to solve these problems and this is the contribution the CDS makes here. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u110	To reply, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u111	Mr President, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes and Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, thank you for your comments. I could answer specific questions if I had recorded them, but I think that was not the case. Allow me, however, to respond to some of your comments. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy! I'll intervene. On the question of the committee which the PSD referred here, we noted, when we had this debate, an appreciation of the instruments that Parliament has for the discussion of various matters, including social security. There is currently a standing committee dealing with social security issues, among other issues, of which Mrs Joana Barata Lopes is part of which the issues on social security, by default and by Rules of Procedure must be discussed and discussed. We find no reason to make a committee but not to debate, under the false ideological cleansing with which you have tried here to golden your thinking, an ideological view of what you want to do in social security. Mrs Joana Barata Lopes said that I have only been talking about the previous government for three minutes, so she has an advance of almost four and a half years, in view of what you have done. So, I still have a lot of credit in this House. [[PSD protests.]] What you need to do in your remaining time is a meaculpa with regard to the outcome of austerity policies on social security. And that is what distinguishes us, because the sustainability of public social security is not a technical issue, it is a political issue and it is a question of quality and quantity of employment. As you know, or you should know, according to the policies that you have implemented in the country over four and a half years, public social security has increased by EUR 950 million in social expenditure and has lost more than EUR 1200 million in contributions. So we are talking about a hole, exclusively due to your policies, over EUR 2000 million per year. If you want an alternative, here is what this government is doing in the country is the reversal of austerity policies to enhance public social security, by the quantity and quality of employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let me say that we have taken other measures. We note that the CDS has said here that it has not yet abdicated, at least entirely, the ceiling on social security. We're sorry, and I think the country is sorry too. And we also regret that you have apparently not read your Government Programmes, the State Reform Script, which I mentioned in my speech, and which explains, in a very detailed way, your measures for capping, for privatization and for the individual capitalization of social security. That, for the Socialist Party, is a red list. The Socialist Party is fully available for this debate, the Socialist Party has proposals on this matter, the Socialist Party is available to discuss them. The Socialist Party therefore reiterates here the challenge for you to bring this proposal down to the Commission so that we can discuss what unites us and so that we can disagree on what separates us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concerns of our times, whether economic, social or political, justify and demand changes, especially in social security systems. throughout Europe over the past few years the issue of social security sustainability has been a widely debated issue. The need for paradigm change in social protection systems, due to demographic, economic, productivity, justice and social equity factors, among others, has forced governments to make reforms. Portugal also needs this reform, it needs this extended debate in the search for the best solutions to meet the challenges it has to face in these areas. The Portuguese society has undergone changes, so the public social security system — a powerful tool for reducing poverty and social inequalities — needs to adapt to these social changes. Today, we are faced with a reality different from the one we were living during the implementation of our social security system. Many of the assumptions in which our public system sat have changed, especially in the last decade. The demographic element, the economy and its employment/unemployment relationship, the issue of productivity and the extreme vulnerability to long periods of unemployment are realities that we cannot ignore, are structural elements and determinants on which the sustainability of our public social security system depends. We can be more or less optimistic, but reality is what it is and the truth is, Mr. and Mrs. Members, it is the fact that the pension system in Portugal suffers a set of pressures that threaten its financial sustainability, in particular, the dual demographic pressure resulting from the increase of the average life expectancy and the reduction of birth; the weak growth of labour productivity, which is far from countering the effect of the demographic recession; economic globalisation, which limits the rise of taxes and contributions as a solution to the financial deficit of social security and the problems related to the capacity to grow and create jobs. All of these are problems that are not solved in 10 years or in a contextual way, and all of these factors, and others, have created a crisis of confidence in the citizens, which further aggravates the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u115	As you can see, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is not just economic, it goes far beyond that. We all know that the current pension system promotes injustice and has not adequately promoted solidarity. Our system does not encourage social cohesion and creates distrust. Today there is a clear perception that the public social security system is at risk and, if nothing is done, the situation will necessarily become complicated. There are those who claim that there is no problem. However, we look at the latest official data and we see that the forecasts for economic growth are only 1%, that the unemployment rate is abnormally high and that employment is destroyed. These data are very worrying. The need for a reform of the public social security system is therefore quite clear. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a structural problem; we know what the causes are and therefore we have to move forward towards solutions. We can't wait anymore. Our responsibility to the Portuguese requires us to give an answer and we, PSD, presented this answer. We have proposed to this House the setting up of a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the Portuguese public social security system within 180 days. We, the PSD, wanted, and we want, a broad, constructive debate, without closed decisions, to find, in a spirit of commitment, the solutions for social security, which is for all and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u117	Unfortunately, and contrary to what they constantly propagated, the left-wing majority rejected that debate extended to society as a whole. But we do not give up, we do not resign, because we want the Portuguese to continue to enjoy a public social security system, a sustainable public system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u118	And we have already welcomed the CDS-PP for bringing this issue back to debate. The CDS-PP proposes, inter alia, a transparency contract, drawing attention to the need to strengthen confidence in the system and to increase its transparency. We, PSD, also consider that confidence and transparency are essential values for the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u120	If we provide the current active beneficiaries with timely information, making the contribution and performance relationship transparent, the social security system improves. Citizens become more responsible and respectful, reducing the risk of fraud and tax evasion. It also reinforces the sustainability of the public social security system. Trust, predictability, commitment and debate are, for us, very important elements. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I reiterate that a comprehensive, consistent, gradual and balanced reform is imperative, a reform that brings confidence. The PSD wants the Portuguese to continue to enjoy a public social security system. Is that a PS? Is the PS available to ensure the benefits of the public social security system in the future, or will it continue to be ill-optimist and wait for time to solve everything?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u122	Or will he still limit himself to trying to find responsibilities instead of looking for solutions?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u124	The PSD hopes that the PS and the rest of the left benches will once and for all embrace reality and face the problems of today that, aggravated, will only harm—and much! — Portuguese in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u125	That's it! Ms. Susana Lamas ( PSD ). — The illusions are dangerous. The extension of the illusion that it is possible to ignore the numbers and feelings of distrust of Portuguese in the social security system calls into question the financing of the social state and the payment of current and future social benefits. It's VV. Ex.s will certainly be held accountable.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u126	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u128	The current parliamentary majority that the Government supports, especially the Socialist Party, has bet on misleading Portuguese, particularly pensioners. But let us not delude ourselves, nor be deluded. Sooner or later — and to see us very early — with your inaction and your irresponsibility, the Portuguese will be deprived of a public system of sustainable, reliable social security, capable of guaranteeing the rights for which thousands of Portuguese have contributed very much. What we can conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Socialist Party and for the radical left, everything is fine and nothing should change. We know your horror of change. However, what is concerned is the safety, predictability, confidence of millions of beneficiaries and pensioners of social security, who cannot in any way be defrauded. That, we won't allow! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u129	The Bureau shall record two requests for clarification. Do you want to answer how? Ms. Susana Lamas ( PSD ). — Together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u130	All right. The first request for clarification is from Mrs Luísa Cabral. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to raise a question to Mrs Susana Lamas : this morning, in the Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Social Security, the PSD attacked the Left Block about the transparency that the Block proposal wants to ensure in the application of the solidarity complement for the elderly. The PSD accused the Block of wanting to advertise and not divulge. This is about transparency. Now, the PSD supports the CDS proposal in which the first premise is exactly an area of transparency. How are we, then, Mrs. Deputy? Is afternoon transparency, by the way, more crystalline than morning?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u134	You've got days! He's got mornings and he's got afternoons!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u135	In other words, transparency changes according to the origin of the proposal. If the Left Block is the subscriber, transparency means propaganda, but if the right block is the subscriber...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u137	... transparency becomes a virtue.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u138	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u139	This contradiction is clear and we cannot let it go blank. The PSD actually supports the CDS proposal because it is transparent but it is in the paradigm change. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u141	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Lamego.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the intention of the CDS-PP with the presentation of this Bill No. 275 / XIII ( 1 ) has already been made clear. ( a ), which is entitled to a transparency contract but which is in fact no longer a means of suggesting a ceiling and privatization of the pension system. It seems to me that this debate has already been well explored here and now in the debate we have held so far. What this side of the Socialist Party is curious to realize is the positioning of the previous coalition partner of the CDS, in particular about articles 6. a is 7. this bill is presented to us. For Article 6. the, we focus on paragraph 4, which refers to the following : « in the case of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit or social unemployment allowance who opt to maintain their contribution to the supplement, the State ensures the participation of the employer entity », which, translated by children, means a clear and very substantial increase in State expenditure, which, of course, adds to the payment due to such subsidies. as regards Article 7. the draft law, concerning the tax system, in its paragraph 1, states that « the worker's contributions are dropped in collective matters for the purposes of IRS », which, again carried out the translation process, implies a further loss of revenue by the State, within the meaning of IRS, and, according to paragraph 2 thereof, « the participation of the employer entity is entitled to a tax benefit, allowing compensation through the use of the current account between the State and the employer entities », which once again has the practical consequence of lowering the revenue by the State. We would therefore like the PSD to speak about these points in particular and to tell us, in a clear and objective way, what it feels about the sense of responsibility that the CDS demonstrates with the presentation of such measures at the time when the country takes a path of financial recovery and confidence, in which, of course, strict and necessary control is still required of all sources of financial support of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u143	To answer the questions you have the floor to Mrs Susana Lamas. Ms. Susana Lamas ( PSD ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions asked by Mrs Luísa Cabral and Mrs Inês Lamego. On the issue of Mrs Luísa Cabral, I would like to say that we cannot confuse transparency with propaganda, with show off. What we are talking about here and what we are defending is, indeed, real transparency and there is no contradiction to that, in what we are defending. If you listened carefully to the speech I made, you understood perfectly that what we want is a transparent social security system that informs and trusts taxpayers. That is what we want, that is what we want, and that is why we proposed the debate, which was rejected, which would be broad, without ideological questions at the outset, in order to generate this trust in all Portuguese people, because that is what they expect of us, that is, we debate and study the issues and present solutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u144	With regard to the question put by Mrs Inês Lamego, I want to say that I am sorry that this question should not have been addressed to me, I suppose I would like to address it to the CDS Parliamentary Group because it was them who drafted the bill and, therefore, I repeat, the question should have been addressed to them rather than to this bench. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u145	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS once again ignites with fear and uncertainty about the future in order to fulfill its ideological agenda of attack on social security and satisfaction of the great economic and financial interests, which long ago long wished to lay their hands on workers' discounts. The CDS, which often affirms itself for solidarity, wants to end intergenerational solidarity in social security and makes the war of generations the basis of its policy and its proposals. at the same time that they try to whiteen the responsibilities they have in the degradation of the living conditions of the people and their social disprotection, they insist on a path, which they have always wanted to do, to weaken and privatize public social security, in the name of their ideological agenda and without any concern about the future of pensioners and pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u147	And you're talking about fear? Oh, my God! Are we talking about fear? Oh, my God! You're talking about terror!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u148	The CDS presents today a proposal that is programmatic, encouraging private pension funds and attacking public social security. The CDS is not concerned about Portuguese workers, it is not concerned about the reformed and their future and much less concerned about the guarantee of a dignified life for the people throughout their lives. They are concerned about private pension funds and to ensure their sustainability, not the sustainability of social security, but the sustainability of private pension funds. And we know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is that the more than 200 pension funds in Portugal have had bad results, largely because workers' discount money has been applied in private company shares and bonds and in investment fund units, which has resulted in value losses. What the CDS wants even with this proposal is to save private pension funds by delivering them the workers' discounts for speculation, which may ultimately mean the disappearance of the pension in the future. [[CDS-PP protests.]] There is a key aspect in the CDS proposal — and indeed, the PCP has already questioned the CDS in the first intervention it did in this plenary — which refers exactly to the possibility of converting the public certificate of reform into a private financial product, which is no more than turning the discounts on public social security into a scheme to finance private pension or investment funds. The CDS has an obligation to explain to the present and future reformed workers the risks of this proposal. The CDS has an obligation to explain to the current reformed workers and futures who, with their proposal, discounts will be used by private funds for immediate profit in speculative operations, in a roulette game with very high risk, which runs solely on behalf of future pensioners. The CDS has an obligation to explain that, with its proposal, workers run the risk of their pension may even disappear, as, in fact, the pensions of workers whose private pension systems have failed, like the Enron workers, who have been without pension after the criminal management of the company and its private pension fund have disappeared.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u149	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u150	The CDS complains to Dad about the uncertainty of future reforms and pensions and raises doubts about the future of social security, but it has an obligation to explain why he wants to divert social security reforms and pensions to private funds when they are in crisis and downturn and many have even failed. The CDS also speaks of voluntary membership in its proposal, but in fact it is automatic, because they want it to be the worker who has the obligation to inform if he does not want to join the proposed regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u151	It's extra!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u152	... in addition to attempting to'bombard' workers who do not comply with this regime to do so, thus pressuring workers to be diverted from social security to a discount scheme that opens the way to privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u153	I didn't read the diploma!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u154	We reaffirm: the concern of the CDS is not with pensioners, it is the promotion of private pension funds, ensuring the great economic and financial interests, which have long been committed to destroying social security, the necessary conditions to profit from the millions of euros of workers' contributions. This is what is effectively under discussion, and that is why they are proposing the strengthening of the social security capitalisation regime, to the detriment of the distribution regime, to open the way to the ceiling that the CDS has both defended and wants to implement, because they want to accentuate in the public system the option by the individual accounts regime in which private pension funds settle, making social security run as well as those private funds. Don't count on the PCP, Mr. Members, on the path of each one by itself, who attacks, perverts and destroys public, universal and solidarity social security, which is of the workers and which was a conquest of April.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u155	Each one of you is not doing anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what threatens social security and the living conditions of workers and the people is the economic model based on low wages, which uses unemployment and precariousness as instruments for their realization. The defence of social security requires the firm rejection of proposals such as that which the CDS brought this afternoon the debate, proposals which, in the name of the future of social security, aim at the ideological agenda of its privatization and destruction. The guarantee of the future of sound public social security, while maintaining its principles of universality and solidarity, is inseparable from combating unemployment and precariousness, promoting and creating jobs with rights, valuing wages, which is a way of raising the living conditions of workers and better distribution of wealth but also strengthening the financing of social security. It is indissociable from an effective and determined fight against fraud, evasion and debt to social security, as well as its regime of prescriptions; it is indissociable from an effective fight against the misuse of the funds of the social security welfare system; it is inseparable from the necessary expansion and diversification of its sources of financing, matter, in fact, on which the CFP presented proposals in this House, and is inseparable from the defence of public, universal and solidarity, which is fundamental to the guarantee of a more just and more solidarityed society. This is why the PCP will continue to hit. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u157	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS entered this debate in a shameful way and, by the voice of Mr Nuno Magalhães, announced at the outset that it would not bring the model they were defending to Parliament. Indeed, Mr President, it was better for you to bring courage, because Mr Nuno Magalhães — and it is now an invitation to Mr Pedro Mota Soares, who will certainly close the debate — is to go up to the rostrum and defend a cut of EUR 600 million in social security, which was your proposal. That was courage! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Courage was to go up to the rostrum and defend the ceiling of social security, Mr. I hope you will do so and explain your proposal. Courage was to go up to the rostrum and defend the cuts in the solidarity complement for the elderly — 113 € that you stole from the poor pensioners with the cuts of the CIS. Mrs. Members, people know what has happened and what has happened, since the beginning of this majority, was that there was only an increase of 150 € in the reference value, and that is the difference. Transparency is to say what we think and that is to say there, in the rostrum, because they thought and defended what they defended in your Program and why they did what they did while they were in power. And that's why this bill is a trick. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is a trick in which the exhibition of motives conceals what the articulate reveals. But the joint is crystalline, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. in Article 2. the draft law of the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u159	Will you finally read it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u160	... read the following : « Individual accounts shall be converted into public certificates or products of other private schemes ». That's what's written here. in point 4 it can read: « Accession to the scheme is automatic at the time of registration as a contributor ». In other words, what the CDS here today proposes — there is no doubt, it is not worth deluding — is the evolution to a system of capitalisation, with individual accounts and private discounts, to PPR, to capitalisation funds. This is, however, to change the paradigm of social security to worse, emptying resources the distribution regime and privatizing workers' discounts, making, of course, the system attractive to private funds, which is what the CDS wants. If they were concerned about transparency they could have talked here about the limitations of the current social security simulator and the General Pension Board, which needs to be improved. If they were concerned about transparency, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, when he was a minister, had not mentioned to Parliament information on minimum pensions. Mrs Susana Lamas, if they were concerned about information and transparency they had not hidden their rights from the beneficiaries so that they could not exercise them, it is to disclose those rights. Therefore, you are right to Mrs Maria Luísa Cabral when she accuses the PSD of opposing the disclosure of the new rules of the CIS which the Left Block proposed, through a public campaign.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u161	Through normal organs, it's not propaganda!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u162	Transparency is to give correct information and not to manipulate the information to create the necessary panic for the entry of private people into the system, which is what you have done by saying that the system is unsustainable. Unsustainable, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? The welfare system is superavitary, it has always been in the past and continues to be. Workers'contributions and contributions in 2015 were €18,808 million; total expenditure of this system was €17,803 million, i.e. the system is currently, I repeat, superavitary and must say this. Now, the debate is really about different models in relation to social security and it is more valuable that the debate has been clear from the outset. The PSD asks: « Is there no problem with the sustainability of social security? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” There's, the problem is even quite big and it's called austerity,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u163	...because precisely unemployment, appeals to emigration, plunge the country into a recession, yes, decapitalized social security. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the solutions of the PSD and CDS, which were to plunge the country into this recession, to keep 80% of the frozen pensions, to promote cuts in pensions - we certainly remember that. Members — it has been, and it is, to defend the ceiling to deliver social security to the private and now it is the promotion of the PPRs and the decapitalisation of public social security, weakening the distribution system. If we want to defend social security, then we must safeguard fundamental principles that this project questions, such as intergenerational solidarity, the universality of the system, its role in promoting equality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u164	We must have policies to promote employment and raise wages. Yes, the wages, that the gentlemen. Members felt that they should be down, they had to go up so that there would be more social security contributions. It is necessary not to reduce the TSU of employers, which was the right solution to job creation, and the sources of social security financing need to be diversified, as we are now discussing. This is all the opposite of turning social security into a business niche, as the CDS today proposes here. Why are you talking about specific problems when you have infernated the lives of pensioners? The only concrete problem the CDS project solves is the specific problem of insurers who have been harmed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u165	Mr José Rui Cruz has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing a draft law of the CDS-PP called a transparency contract, which creates the information system for reform and the supplement for reform. So today we have a hand full of nothing. It aims at the CDS, with this initiative, to create an information system for a reform based on virtual individual accounts so as to estimate the future pension of each citizen. With the proposal of the CDS, each citizen would receive an annual letter in which his or her future pension was estimated. As for the idea, it is not bad for us, but let's see if we understand: a person who starts working, spent a year or two, receives this information on the basis of a small estimate of a small maturity? We don't think this is right. Will the person receive this information without asking for it? It doesn't seem right either. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u167	These measures are provided for in the Government Programme. The Government Programme is public and all these measures are planned and implemented, as well as you know. These features are available to people. [[CDS-PP protests.]] When citizens need to estimate their future pension, they can do so through existing electronic platforms. The Socialist Party has nothing to do with transparency, it is, in fact, a matter in which we have nothing to point out, quite the contrary. What we think is that it must be the citizen who asked for it and not that this should be imposed on him annually. It should not be the citizen, in the manner of penalty, to receive an annual letter saying « his reform, from here to x years will be x», such as who receives the IMI or the IMT at home. The government is improving the simulator that allows to provide important information on the approximate values of future pensions and is simplifying its use, as you well know. It happens that the CDS-PP — and before us the former Minister of Protection — has been in government for four and a half years and I ask: if this is so important, why has it not been implemented? [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u168	Without demagogy, we know that, if it were so easy, perhaps, it would have been implemented. We also know that there are many data before 1990 that are not easy to make available to the citizen because they are not on platforms. Without demagogy, we know that there is a lot of work to be done because at the time the records were not easy to make available immediately to the citizen. That is to say, we must be clear and objective in this matter and not make demagogy. There must be a back-up work to allow this to be done clearly. As for the reform supplement, we appreciate the free publicity that the CDS is making to this measure because, if it were paid, it would certainly have a lot of costs for the government. During the four and a half years of PSD government / CDS-PP, we have never heard of this public system of capitalization, which was created by a government of the Socialist Party in 2008. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u169	During the four and a half years of PSD/CDS-PP government, this system has never been useful, nor has it ever been good. Unless right now, let's know why! Open... The CDS proposes that this supplement be done automatically. I can't understand. Why should adherence to this supplement be made automatically with such 2, 4 or 6 %? I can't understand why. Is it not much more democratic than each of us who wants to join voluntarily say « I want to join and I want to discount 2, 4 or 6 %»? Why, if there is a distraction, does the person automatically start making the discounts? Will it not be much more legitimate what happens today, than when any of us want to join it voluntarily, and not, as it is proposed, if we do not want to adhere, to have to do the information? in the past, I think that the intention of not valuing this program was much to benefit private RPPs, and it seems to me that it has even been achieved. It also says the CDS-PP that individual accounts are converted into public certificates of reform or products of another mutual or private nature, to the choice of the beneficiary. Is this not the way to open the doors to the privatization of social security, defended on the right? The Socialist Party does not align in this speech. We also note the fact that the PSD has gone side by side and has not answered the question of Mrs Inês Lamego. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u170	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that the Social Democratic Party will enable the CDS bill, which creates the information system for reform and the supplement for reform. We believe it would be important that, at least, the Socialist Party, recognizing that—and it is also clear from its words—there is a problem in social security and that it is important for the parties to discuss this issue, could also enable it so that, in committee, we would discuss this issue, which is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u173	We see that the CDS bill allows for increased confidence in the system and its transparency within the public system. Obviously, we are not talking here about private systems, which already exist, but about the public system, which is what we all need to safeguard, and that is precisely our obligation. however, what we see is that the parties of the so-called management adopt the position of the ostrich in matters of social security. The attitude of the ostrich disguises the problem immediately but aggravates—and how! — its consequences in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u175	The best service we can provide to the social state, in general, and social security, in particular, is to promote its sustainability through the promotion of a dynamic economy, disciplined public finances and health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u177	in this chapter, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, things, unfortunately for Portugal, unfortunately for the Portuguese, are not going well. Please note in the first quarter: the unemployment rate has risen;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u178	Get up? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u179	... the employment rate stagnated; exports are falling; public debt has risen; GDP growth forecasts are constantly being reviewed; investment and confidence fall and Portugal, for the first time since the beginning of 2013, does not transmit confidence to international institutions and falls in the ranking of competitiveness. There is therefore an urgent need for consensus on social security, and the President of the Republic himself appeals to them, which means that the parties represented here cannot remain indifferent. Before the elections, the Socialist Party said it was late, it was too late to work on this issue. After the elections, by the way, it is very early or simply not convenient in accordance with the parliamentary solutions that the Government supports. Therefore, social security needs a strategic vision that takes into account today's pensioners, it is true, but it does not go unnoticed by tomorrow's pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u181	This intergenerational solidarity is also part of the social contract in which each citizen's relationship with the State is based and is all the more important as it reflects an unmistakable reality and to which we are all bound. It is in today's asset discounts that the pensions paid to the current beneficiaries are financed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u182	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u183	Without structurally changing the model, as many European countries have already done, we will not be able to give long-term sustainability to the public pension system. In fact, our responsibilities are compromising, if we do not know how to assume, the future of future pensioners who are discounted and who constitute rights. Portuguese workers cannot be dependent on this conjuncural vision. They contribute, with their wages, to the payment of current pensions and have the right to see theirs guaranteed in the future, whether it is more or less distant. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u184	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for a final speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this debate, it is important once again to reaffirm what this debate is not, and this debate is not the debate on the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u187	This debate is not the debate on pension reform. This debate is not the debate on the form of pension payments. With regard to this debate, there are different ideas and I am sure that all banks will be able to submit proposals, but that is not what the CDS wanted to do today. What the CDS today wanted to do was something different: try to find a minimum common denominator, try to find a minimum basis of understanding so that we can generate a consensus on something that is fundamental to all Portuguese, those who are today pensioners but above all those who are workers and are looking at the future of their pension. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u188	We want to make this debate by contributing to the 'declaration' which the Prime Minister himself suggested here in this House. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u189	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u190	I believe, in fact, that the Portuguese who are now watching us on television or those who are here do not understand how political parties with responsibility cannot, at least, give their hands, at least cannot establish a minimum understanding on a subject that is so important to all and each one of the Portuguese. What does the CDS want? He wants to give information to the Portuguese. And I think that receiving an annual letter on the future pension is not negative, is giving each one the chance to know what counts. Building confidence in the system is not impossible, but this is being explained by how the system works and how we can predict the future of each one's savings. To give transparency is not to bet on experimentalism, that is, we can actually copy ideas from other countries that have already implemented systems like these and that actually work. in this sense, we know that the problem of the Portuguese pension system is not only sustainability. We also have a problem, because our system generates very low pensions and, in the future, it will even decrease the rate of replacement of pensions. In other words, future pensions will be far below the income that workers will have in their last declared salary — at least 40 % below. That is exactly what we want to do here. If this doesn't concern the left and extreme left benches, I mean that it honestly worries the CDS bench,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u192	...and that was the debate we wanted to do here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]] To this end, other mechanisms are certainly needed, mechanisms that improve future pensions without exacerbating the problem of sustainability. That is what we are proposing here today. In addition to the pillar of the division, that pillar that guarantees solidarity between generations and that is not changed by this bill, there already exists today, in our system, another pillar, that of capitalization, in which each of us can discount to improve his future pension. That is how we want to strengthen. What we want is, on the one hand, to give more information, to give regular, clear and transparent information on what will be the estimate of the workers' future pension and, on the other, to allow them to make a choice about how they want to organize their future. Now, the individual account we propose is exactly that: an account in which the worker gets to know all the discounts that he has made, all the discounts that the company has made, the breakdown of his discounts for each of the benefits that exist today within the system (unemployment, illness, parenthood or reform), but also a future estimate of his pension, so that he may, too, have more responsibility for what will happen to him. in this sense, we want to propose more mechanisms that can improve pensions in the future. The supplement for reform is exactly that. It allows each worker, but also each company, to voluntarily discount more to, in the future, have better protection from their pension.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u194	This supplement—it is important to say — it is free membership and it is also free choice, tendingly in the public system but also allowing everyone to choose out of the public system, for mutual or private systems. The novelty that we bring, which is that of automatic adherence, curiously, only happens in the public system, because that is why, by default, all of us must contribute.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u196	I do not understand the Socialist Party's restrictions on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the vote on this bill. It is in the hands of the Socialist Party to bring this bill down to its committee. It is enough that they make it possible, until they abstain, so that this bill can continue to be discussed in committee and can benefit from the contribution of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Social Democratic Party, because we are open to all these contributions. I remember that in the first half-year debate in which the President of the CDS questioned the Prime Minister, he was told that we would present proposals on social security. at the time, what the Prime Minister said was: « Bring your proposals that we are here to discuss them». I want to know if the Prime Minister's word will or will not be honored,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] ... or if, in the head of the Socialist Party, what will win is fear, certainly fear of harming your preferential relationship, your special relationship to the left, with the Portuguese Communist Party and with the Left Block. from our point of view, this is a very simple debate. Is it a debate about who is concerned about the future of Portuguese people? Is it a debate about who is concerned about social security and how we can improve the pensions of each of the Portuguese people. Is it a debate about how we can give more transparency, more information, more confidence to a system, which is essential, which is truly the most noble system in our social state, or is it a debate about the fear of the Socialist Party on its left? for our part, this answer is given: we are always with the concerns of the Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-07-06.u197	Mrs. Members, completed the debate of Bill No 275 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) of the CDS-PP, and taking into account that the CDS, the proposer, has exercised the right to request its vote on the same day as in general, to request the services which have the deliberation quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, according to the electronic framework, are present 202 Members, to whom the honourable Members are added. Members Jorge Duarte Costa, BE, Bruno Dias, PCP, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Jamila Madeira, PS, Pedro Alves, PSD, and João Pinho de Almeida, CDS-PP, making a total of 208 Members. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 275 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Transparency contract : establishes the reform information system and the reform supplement ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus finishing our work today. The next plenary meeting will be tomorrow at 3 p.m. and, as you know, the debate on the state of the nation will be on the agenda at the end of the debate. I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 17 hours and 10 minutes.]]
