ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Members, the first item on our agenda consists of elections for various external bodies, namely for the Higher Council on Internal Security, for the Commission on Equality and Against Racial Discrimination and for the Higher Council on Information. These elections will be held in Conference Room D. Maria. The 15th-year discussion with the Prime Minister is continuing under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, which means that the first interventions are the responsibility of the different banks and the Prime Minister will answer each one. under Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, we will also have a preparatory debate with the participation of the Prime Minister of the forthcoming European Council. The debate will be held by the Government, following the speeches of the various parties and the closure by the Government. At the end of these debates, there will also be the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Let us then start the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. The order of interventions is as follows: PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN. To put questions, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and government members, I will already talk about the budgetary issue, but I would like to begin by saying, about the data released in the last week of the INE on the employment situation in the end and 2015, which, after fictions such as the refund of the surcharge, such as the value of the deficit for 2015, such as the public debt, and how the supposed solidity of the financial sector that was denied by the cases of BANIF and the New Bank, the employment and unemployment data, completed in 2015, show that unfortunately the right-wing propaganda is far from reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] PSD and PP did not leave us only with 2 million poor. They also left us in 2016 with more than 1 million unemployed. Thus: if we add to the official number of unemployment, the number of inactive people available to work but who did not seek employment — more than 98 500 than in the second quarter of 2011 — and the number of unemployed people who were employed in training actions — more 103 370 than at that time — we find that the PSD/PP government is responsible for an increase of 177 000 unemployed compared to 2011. The truth is only one: for every day the right-wing coalition has fallen into real unemployment 100 Portuguese and Portuguese; 44 unemployed per day have fallen into very long-term unemployment and have left no support for unemployment 68 Portuguese! For every day the right-wing coalition has been destroyed 147 liquid jobs! The right is far more hasty in slogans than ruling. [[PSD laughter.]] Tell us now that we have one hand and we have taken the other. [[PSD protests.]] in this case, PSD and PP gave the country more 177 000 unemployed and took out Portugal about 240 000 jobs! And they still look happy about it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The history of the governance of these last four years in terms of employment is therefore a sad story of failure that only the PSD and PP count it as a little achievement and success. Mr. Prime Minister, it is the effort for a different reality that it is important to engage with a lot of energy. And that is one of the answers we must give, with new support to families affected by this scourge of unemployment and with a very great commitment to people's capacity, to create wealth and to summon investors. That is the determination that should encourage us in this first budget year. In order to better understand what is happening today in this budgetary issue, I begin by recalling the comment of the Eurogroup on the State Budget, now Mr Passos Coelho, last of the PSD / PP Government. I quote: "We agree with the Commission's assessment that there is a risk of failure to comply with the recommendations of the excessive deficit procedure. We note that according to the European Commission assessment the deficit will be 3, 3 % of GDP ». The government promised 2......................................................... I keep quoting: « in this sense additional measures will be needed to improve the deficit or comply with the rules of the Stability Pact. It is good that Portugal undertakes to implement the measures necessary to ensure that the excessive deficit is corrected." The State Budget for 2016 is the first of four Budgets and is developed in particularly conditioned and difficult circumstances. The difficulties of projection and execution for 2016 do not result only from the imbalances of the beginning of the decade with which the right illudes in his speech. Portugal has to make a larger adjustment, because in the 2015 budget the government has failed twice in the targets for the deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The difficulties, in addition to the external environment and the rise of interest, are the result of, above all and recently, the gruesome failure to meet the goals of governance in the last four years...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u3	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u4	... and, as has been widely referred, of the very high public debt that is primarily responsible for the governance of the PSD and the PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, respecting our European commitments, which were reiterated yesterday in the Eurogroup, we are sure that when we arrive at the end of the legislature, the PS and the parties that support the government will be proud... [[PSD laughter.]] ... and will be responsible for a positive transformation in our public accounts, in external confidence in our country, in the competitiveness of companies, in the sustained growth of the economy and in the life and dignity of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[PSD protests.]] The budget proposal which will be adopted in this Parliament in the coming weeks is an instrument of guidance that we assume as the best in the internal and external circumstances in which it has been made and repeats. And while we did, and did, that best, we were, and we're doing good. The PS will ensure that it will also be so in the future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u5	This is not just a budget which is desired to be balanced from a financial point of view, but is also balanced in its negotiating outcome. It is less bold than we wanted it to be, but more bold than the European Commission wanted it to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u6	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u7	In any case, we show that it is possible and useful to dialogue, contradict and demonstrate national reasons, even in a particularly demanding European context and in a deregulated and weakened Europe on its foundations, in its autonomy and in its competences, subject to diffuse and apparently uncontrolled interests. We have done what the government before us has never done! And we're right: it's the country that's left, and it'll stay, winning. And whenever others have done so, and I have no doubt that they will have to do so, more day, less day, will also be the European Union winning. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude. Listening to the right to scandalize with the greatest fiscal effort is something that no one would expect, so they did in the past and they intend to do in the future. And it is good to remember that they had agreed with Brussels that not only would the tax burden be much higher in 2016, as among others, overtaxes, wage cuts and social support would be maintained. PSD and PP tried to weaken the government's negotiating position in Brussels and also tried to ensure that the State budget was plummeted or, alternatively, distorted enough for the government to have a defeat. They left a trail of damage, it is true, that it is important to recover immediately, but they have failed happily in the essentials. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u8	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. We will now have to be equally demanding with us, and the PS, Prime Minister, will be a CL, helping the government to rigorously implement our budget. We will be attentive to all situations that require corrections and not less attentive to the fulfilment of our commitments with the Portuguese and with our political and social partners, that is, we will develop a budgetary consolidation that is friendly to the families and friends of the people. The fulfilment of these commitments is essential for the acquisition of the political trust balance that is intended and for the future year to be won in dialogue with our European partners for the benefit of all Portuguese. You can therefore, Prime Minister, continue to rely on the support of the whole Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u10	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u11	Mr President, Mr César began by stressing one of the most dramatic results of the policy followed by the previous legislation: the results on unemployment. We have said and reiterated that the priority of economic policy must be employment, employment, employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u12	That doesn't accelerate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u13	And employment is not decreed, employment is built up with appropriate economic policies. Therefore, the priority we set for this year was the relaunch of economic growth based on two fundamental axes: first, on the replacement of family income, and secondly on the creation of investment conditions by companies. This program did not start or end with the State Budget for 2016. with regard to companies, it began, from the very start, with the relaunch of Simplex, a fundamental programme to improve the cost of context and create better conditions for companies to invest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It continued with the creation of the Enterprise Capitalisation Mission Unit, a mission unit centred on the resolution of a fundamental node of our economy, such as the low level of financial autonomy of companies and which, together with the financial system situation, has had much difficulty in ensuring the transmission of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank to our real economy. The fact that this Mission Unit is presided over by a man with extensive business experience, either as an entrepreneur or as an associative leader, such as Eng. José António Barros, gives us confidence that how this Mission Unit can find concrete answers to what it is urgent to do so that companies can invest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition, this week, the Minister for Economic Affairs has already had the opportunity to announce four important lines of credit that aim, precisely, to strengthen the capitalisation of companies. Simplicity, corporate capitalisation and acceleration of the implementation of Community funds. For years I spoke alone about the delay in the implementation of the Community funds and was always denied. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] I've always been denied, but as always, the truth comes to the top, it's like olive oil. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, as much as bothering the benches to my right,... [[PSD protests.]] ... the harsh reality is that on the day we took possession of the more than EUR 21 billion that two years ago are at the disposal of Portugal, only EUR 4 million had arrived at Portuguese companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure launched Plan 100, with the aim of bringing at least EUR 100 million to companies in the first 100 days of government, and the fact is that in these two months more money has already been made available to companies than it did in the previous two years of implementing Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a second dimension that has to do with the replacement of family income and this has since been the agreement obtained in social consultation on the increase of the national minimum wage and the set of measures that have been taken to strengthen social protection, since the increase of family allowance to the increase of support to single-parent families, the replacement of the funds of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the solidarity income of insertion and also the replacement of the updating of pensions. And the State budget continues this policy, from the outset, with the elimination of the overtax of the IRS, totally or partially, to 99, 7% of Portuguese families. It also pursues this objective with a reduction in the extraordinary contribution of solidarity. This objective is also pursued with the replacement of salaries to public servants and, finally, with the reduction of the rates of some essential services, with a first reduction of 24 % in the moderate rates in the National Health Service. This is an effort that has been pursued. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, the replacement of family income and the creation of conditions for the investment of companies are two mutually supportive axes. Without strong companies the income of families is not sustainable and without an increase in family income there is no confidence for companies to invest. For several years, in the confidence-finding survey that the National Institute of Statistics does to entrepreneurs, the first reason they then point out not to invest is the low demand expectations resulting from the income level of families and the low level of domestic demand. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Strengthening family income is creating conditions for increasing the demand for business goods and services and thus creating conditions for greater investment on the part of companies. Therefore, it is our priority to relaunch the economy on these two fundamental axes and, as we have said from the outset, to relaunch the economy within the framework of our participation in the euro area. Many said that it was impossible to turn the page of austerity and continue to comply with the rules of the euro area. What we have demonstrated, and what we once again confirmed yesterday, with the taking of the Eurogroup's position, is that the budget of the Portuguese State is a budget that deserves the support of the European institutions and has the conditions to be implemented within the framework of the euro area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have obviously taken good note of the concerns of the European Commission and, as I have said and I reaffirm, we have full confidence in our ability to implement this budget so that, in implementation, we can prevent risks and strengthen confidence. This is a responsible budget, which creates conditions for growth and job creation, which increases social protection, which has very ambitious goals for reducing deficit and debt, goals and ambitions that the right speaks so much, but that it has never been able to fulfil in the four years of its governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u14	To put questions, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a simple question for which, I believe, the answer should be simple too. Yesterday, at the end of the Eurogroup meeting, the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, Pierre Moscovici, said that it was necessary — Portugal — to restore the confidence of investors. Restore investor confidence. I ask Mr Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, why did Commissioner Moscovici understand that it was important to state that Portugal needed to restore confidence? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u16	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u17	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, after four years of consecutive government debt increased from 97 % of GDP to 130 % of GDP,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... after a year in which the structural deficit, rather than having decreased, increased, economic growth was pauperimo, with the social consequences it had, and in which the National Institute of Statistics subsequently recorded the lack of confidence of investors to invest,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... power-CL - to tell you that it may be necessary for Portugal to make efforts to regain the confidence of investors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I also want to say that, of course, no one is unaware that, over the last week, European markets have been particularly agitated — according to the best analyses, mainly due to concerns about the financial system of several European countries — and that this, of course, puts pressure on weaker economies, as is the case with the Portuguese economy. So, responsibly, we are careful and, as I have already had the opportunity to say recently and I can now reaffirm, as we have said to the European institutions, everything will be done in this implementation to prevent risks and strengthen confidence, because trust is a fundamental capital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u18	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, listening to the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party recently and now Dr. António Costa, I realize that the Government and the Socialist Party are equipped with a pathological impulse to always arrange a scapegoat when things go wrong. That's the way it is. [[PSD applause.]] But, Prime Minister, let me remind you that in these four years, in which you supposedly understand that confidence has been destroyed, Portugal closed the Memorandum of Understanding, therefore came out of a rescue period, contrary to what has been said, has greatly diminished unemployment and has had an economy that has grown, in real terms, 1, 5 %, in 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u20	It's a truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u21	... and close to 1 % in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u22	Half of what in 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u23	These are the facts, Prime Minister. The economy has grown, unemployment has decreased throughout this period and never, at the end of a meeting of the Eurogroup, a Commissioner has publicly said that Portugal needed to restore confidence. You know why, Prime Minister? Because trust was restored. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But now it's not, trust has been shaken. And Mr. Prime Minister says: "No, it has been shaken, but we have nothing to do with it. We've only been in government for two months. If trust has been shaken, it has certainly been for something that has happened in the past! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But the truth is, Mr. Prime Minister, it's not like that. contrary to what Mr Prime Minister has said — here in Parliament, to the Financial Times, over the past two months — the negotiations that you have held with the European Commission, intensive but progressing well in solving problems, have resulted in the first reaction of the European Commission, and the government has been denied. When I asked whether the target of the 2, 8 % of the deficit, which was foreseen in the Government's 2016 Budget Programme, would be acceptable to the European Commission, if it considered it to be in accordance with the rules of the European Semester, the Prime Minister said yes, but it was not. When then Mr. Prime Minister came to say, very calmly, that there was no need for anything else and that, after these negotiations, they would present a responsible budget project that met the goals, he was not only plunged because the government had brought more measures. We continue to await exactly the communication that the Government has made to the European Commission, with the list of measures and the estimate of its cost. But, as far as we can see, Mr Prime Minister, until this date, the government, contrary to what it has promised, has not reversed any austerity, is redistributing austerity and thereby jeopardizing the image of Portugal on the markets. [[Just like that!]] [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u24	But he's doing more than that. Mr Prime Minister saw your Minister for Finance obliged to say the opposite of what you said. You said that no more measures would be needed; the Minister of Finance announced yesterday that he would work, from now on, and leave new measures ready to deal with what are the targets, since even after the amendments that have been made, the draft budget and the budget do not deserve confidence, neither of the markets, nor of the European Commission, and let me add, not of the Portuguese, that are restless with what is happening. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Since the reality has already denied Mr Prime Minister several times and Mr Prime Minister has had his Government to do the opposite of what he has said to me, for more than once in Parliament, I hope that this time he will have the opportunity to succeed in what he will say in prospective terms. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u25	What is the plan b that the Government is working to have available to go to the budgetary situation, if necessary, and seems increasingly necessary? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u26	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u27	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I would like to remind you that things are clear, what the Eurogroup said, exactly last year, about the budget you then presented. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] He said: "We agree with the Commission's assessment that there is a risk of failure to comply with the recommendations of the excessive deficit procedure. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u28	in this sense, additional measures will be needed to improve the deficit and comply with the rules of the Stability Pact." He added: "It is good that Portugal undertakes to implement the measures necessary to ensure that the excessive deficit is corrected".
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u29	That's putting a hat up to your heels!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u30	The difference, Mr, is not what the Eurogroup says, the difference is what you, then Prime Minister, undertook to do before the European Commission and what we undertake to do before the European Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The commitment you have made is in the Stability and Growth Pact for this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u31	There's no more growth!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u32	And they were committed to the following: on tax charges, plus 0, 4 percentage points than what is in our Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In terms of income, in addition to not eliminating the overtax, in addition to the non-replacement of the salaries of public servants, in addition to not updating pensions, Mr Deputy had the undertaking of a new court of 600 million euros in the pensions of the Portuguese. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] What we have negotiated is certainly questionable. Now, there is something that, I believe, no one has doubts: between not restoring wages that are due, between cutting pensions that are due or increasing some special taxes on consumption, there is no need to hesitate, increasing special taxes on consumption and protecting the pensions of those who are entitled to them, the wages of those who are entitled to them and all consumers not making any further VAT increases. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] That is why, Mr President, we have a lot of confidence in our ability to implement, because we know that the measures we have taken, even those we have adopted in contrast, are measures that will not have a negative effect on the economy as a whole, will have no negative effect on Portuguese income, will have no negative effect on the life of companies... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ... and above all will not contribute to a recessive dynamic, such as the strategy that your Government has adopted and that it has had over these years in Portugal. That's the difference. And this difference is very important. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u33	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, would it be possible to answer the question I have asked? What plan (b) does the Government have to respond to budgetary implementation? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u35	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u36	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I understand that after so much effort the European Commission and then the Eurogroup have dropped the budget, it is very angry that neither the European Commission nor the Eurogroup have dropped our budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And, Mr President, I have it for a man who is always well informed, I realize that only this fury can explain the fact that he has not yet realized that the European Commission has already announced, more than two weeks ago, the letter which the Government has sent with the measures which it has undertaken to adopt and which are already contained in the proposal for a State Budget Act which has already entered the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, when emotion no longer clouds your spirit, you will read the letter, study the Budget and know what measures we undertake to adopt, and that we will adopt if they are approved by this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u37	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u38	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, this is not about any emotion, it is about the duty to respect Parliament and the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You, as Prime Minister, told Parliament several times and told the country by several others that the Budget would not have the measures that, after all, it would not need any additional measures that are, after all, that it had all properly negotiated and connected with the European Commission when it had not.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u39	What about 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u40	It's not worth looking for 2015, Prime Minister, it's not worth it.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u41	But it's relevant!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u42	You know why? Because in 2015 the European Commission did not ask us to take any measures. And your Finance Minister yesterday said that he would work on these measures, that they would be analysed at the Eurogroup meeting in April, and, if necessary, they would be executed. So, Prime Minister, who's here to answer, it's you, it's not me.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u43	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u44	I know that, the last time you were here you didn't remember that I was no longer Prime Minister,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... but we should not forget that you are the Prime Minister and that you really have to answer. That's what I'm asking. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Minister of Finance yesterday in Brussels was obliged to go beyond what he had as a combination within the government to prevent things from getting complicated, or has the government's white paper to commit to more measures? What kind of measures are they? What areas are they working on? What is the government planning to present in Brussels?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u45	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u46	That is what I wanted Mr. Prime Minister to inform the country, and that is what the country has the right to know. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u47	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u48	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, what the Eurogroup requested yesterday, and the Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Government, assured us that we would prepare measures that would apply if necessary. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u49	And the Minister of Finance added, in fact, that we will do so with the tranquillity and confidence of those who believe that no new measures are necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u50	What measures? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u51	Now, of course, the government has a responsible attitude to dialogue with the European institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u52	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u53	We always assume that we wouldn't have a confrontational logic. And this dialogue has been fruitful, as the European institutions have recognized. Therefore, as we promised yesterday, we will prepare measures, which will be implemented if necessary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u54	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u55	... although it reaffirms, and I confirm, that we do not understand that they are necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u56	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u57	As for the measures we have already committed, they are public and known. So we don't have anything to hide, nor do we have to take refuge in generic statements.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u58	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u59	I would like to be able to say the same thing about the honourable Member, whom I hear about the risky measures that this budget contains, without explaining what they are. What are the risky measures that we have taken and that you would not take? Is it not that we will cut the pensions that you are going to cut? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is it to restore the wages that you were not resting? Is it going to cut the supertax that you wouldn't cut? What are the risky measures we have in our Budget? We would also like to know, Mr President! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u60	To continue to ask questions, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is clear that the Government does not want to inform the country about what measures it is preparing. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We are sure, however, that it will prepare them together with the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block —... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u62	... must be, of course. Therefore, we will know, from the next meetings with the Portuguese Communist Party and with the Left Block and not in Parliament, what measures the Government will adopt after negotiating with the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] But there is one thing we already know, Mr Prime Minister: indeed, the government has not been zealously fulfilling its role of giving peace to the country. Nor does it give transparency. I ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to do what this Parliament, in Parliament's committee of inquiry to BANIF, denied, i.e., that an independent and external audit should be carried out to know what has happened, so that no one can hide anything from what has happened. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u63	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u64	Mr President, I will try to be very synthetic and tell Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, the following: the honourable Member has not yet noticed the difference between what the Eurogroup said last year and what he said this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Answer me! Answer me!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u65	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will. Ladies and gentlemen would listen and if they'd shake less, maybe they'd understand... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u66	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to make the possible silence so that Mr. Prime Minister can answer and there is fairness in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u67	What the Eurogroup demanded last year and its government had to ensure was the implementation of the necessary measures, and it had to indicate them soon. What the Eurogroup has done this time was to ask Portugal to start preparing, from now on, the measures to use, if necessary. [[When?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u68	So what we are going to do, of course, with a constructive spirit, is start to prepare measures that we will keep in the portfolio, responsibly, to use, if necessary. [[Say which one!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u69	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u70	Now, our conviction is that they will not be needed. And, contrary to what happened this year, in which the matter was put in a possible and merely preventive manner, last year the question was in a necessary and effective manner, given that, in fact, it was found that the VV deficit was lacking. Ex.es were going to achieve it was unattainable, which, in fact, came to happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u71	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u72	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, indeed Mr Prime Minister is responsible to the country for leading economic and financial policy in a risky way, which puts Portugal in a situation of greater vulnerability — and this is what I want to point out here in a very clear way. We know that the financial markets are shaken, but we also know that the interest rates of Portuguese debt at the age of 10 are acting in a different way than that of other peripheral countries, which also have problems. And what is happening at this time in Portugal has no parallel to what has happened for several years. When we compare what is our yield curve today with what was a month ago, it is entirely different and more dangerous. The market is pointing out to Portugal that, if there are more problems in the future, it will penalize us in a way that will not penalise others. When we compare what is going on with Spain or Italy, between a month and now, practically, Mr. Prime Minister, nothing happens. Therefore, the government is taking the country to a risk situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u73	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. When I said that we all like to remove austerity, I remember that it was not me who brought austerity to the country, it was a socialist government. And it was not a socialist government that began to remove it, I was still last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u75	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u76	It would take us conditions to walk faster! But if, to walk faster, it means to stumble and put the country on the basis of the evaluation of a rating company,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u77	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u78	...then, Prime Minister, you will be responsible for not having been careful to think twice about the strategy you are following. But, Mr President, to conclude, let me just say the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u79	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u80	... Mr Prime Minister here launched a process of intentions, saying that either I or the PSD had made a huge effort for the European Commission to lead the Portuguese budget. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] I want to tell you, Prime Minister, that this is a way of doing politics, which is not mine! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u81	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u82	I would very much like the Prime Minister to be able to explain clearly what these efforts mean in Brussels so that the Portuguese budget could lead. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u83	To ask questions, you have the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u84	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, one of the world's largest financial institutions and the largest German bank...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u85	Madam Member, I would ask you to wait a little while for the exit of some Members of the Chamber, whom I would ask you to do so quickly. [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u86	Mr. Prime Minister, one of the world's largest financial institutions and the largest German bank, Deutsche Bank, is at the centre of a new financial storm, after convictions for money laundering, for handling interest rates with losses of billions of euros and actions falling to the peak.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u87	Now it's Deutsche Bank's fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u88	in the international economic press there are those who compare what is happening with the 2008 crisis. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u89	And when the German bank is in trouble, Wolfgang Shäuble does what he has always done — it blames the countries on the outskirts of the euro. in this case, when markets get angry with the largest German bank, they point the finger to the Portuguese budget. That the German Minister does so is unacceptable, but it is clear. That the Portuguese right to do so is, at least, worrying. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u90	It's really pathological!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u91	Defender Portugal is not to allow, once again, the attack of those who work, who have worked a lifetime, who want to live and work here, to save the European bank in trouble. in this sense, it is worrying the meeting of the Eurogroup yesterday, because it is under the de facto leadership of the German Finance Minister that the Eurogroup repeats the lie of associating nervousness in the financial markets with the Portuguese Budget and of such additional austerity measures. Let us be clear: it will certainly not be the recovery of income which will put any problem to the implementation of the Portuguese budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u93	The risk comes, as throughout Europe, from the crisis in the financial system, with Deuteche Bank leading, from the international economic crisis, with the breakdown in the so-called emerging markets, from China to Brazil. If the Portuguese budget has any risk, it is not because it lacks austerity, it is because it lacks growth. He certainly restates wages and pensions, but little. There is a lack of means for public services, a lack of investment that can create jobs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u94	Austerity was the right recipe and only weakened the country further. Debt has always grown. The deficit has never been controlled. The financial system continued to be the biggest headache. Precautionary has become a rule. People have become impoverished. The country's gone. The good advice of Brussels has always been the worst attacks on Portugal. Show availability to repeat the recipe is all less prudent. I believe it is important to say today in Parliament — on the part of the Bloc — with all security — that there is a new majority in Portugal that negotiates State budgets, but this majority is based on the conditions of recovery of labour income, the defense of the social state and the stop privatisation. That the right has no doubt that this is the only measure of the majority agreement. And I'd like to hear Mr. Prime Minister say that again! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u95	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u96	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I think it is very clear today—it is enough to read the whole international press—to see where is the epicenter of the turmoil that reigns in the markets and that it will not be acceptable in 2016 to repeat the 2011 stagnation, i.e. that a market crisis becomes a crisis of the States, which then have to resolve market problems. That has to be very clear. We all understand the factors that have been disturbing, which are: the market and the global economy have not been growing as it was desirable to grow; the fall in interest rates has benefited consumers, but obviously has penalized the financial sector; many investors today are only fully implementing the new rules in force in Europe on banking resolution, that explains, in fact, the surprise with decision taken by the Banco de Portugal regarding the need of the former BES creditors have been called to contribute to the resolution of the capitalisation of the New Bank. So all of this creates a new environment. It is clear that, in this environment, fragile economies like Portugal have a greater exposure than strong economies. So we must conduct our action with caution. It is known that we are advocates of Portugal's active presence within the euro area and, therefore, we will do everything to comply with the rules and be comfortable in this framework. Now, what we have demonstrated is that it is possible to make political choices, fulfilling this objective. It is true that in dialogue with the Commission we were forced to increase taxes on Portuguese, but we made choices. We could have made the simple choice to raise VAT, which is a tax on consumption that everyone pays, and which affects all goods and products. The choice we made was not to raise VAT but rather to raise special taxes on consumption which only some pay, which only affect certain goods and which are paid only in certain circumstances. We could have made the option not to reduce the overtax of the IRS, but the option we made was to reduce the overtax of the IRS, eliminate it totally or partially to 99, 7% of the families, and instead to aggravate the bank's contribution to the Resolution Fund. With regard to IMI, we could have made the option not to restore the safeguard clause which prevents any family from suffering an unbearable increase in IMI every year. On the other hand, what we did was to end the exemption from IMI real estate funds. What does that mean? Yes, we have to make an effort to reduce our deficit, but to reduce our deficit we have to make choices and these options are possible. That is why I can accompany the honourable Member, saying, as I said at the time when we signed the agreements that were based on the formation of this government, which under no circumstances the adjustment will entail the sacrifice of wages, pensions or the worsening of taxation on labour. This was the guarantee we gave. This is the guarantee we reaffirm and this is the policy of guidance of this government. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] What distinguishes this government from what the right claims to be its objective is not the concern about reducing the deficit, it is to know what policies are to have a sustained reduction in the deficit. And the sustained reduction of the deficit is not the result of temporary measures internally and are presented outside as structural. It is not a sustainable reduction in the deficit that we rely on measures that are unconstitutional and that, year after year, the Constitutional Court has to restore because they are not sustainable. There are no sustainable measures that have a negative effect on growth and job creation. That is why our strategy for consolidating public finances is more sustainable and will have better results. And that is why, at the end of the year, we will have less debt than we receive, less deficit than that we receive and we will make a consolidation, which the right has not done in any of the four years in which Portugal ruled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u97	For further questions, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u98	Mr President, Prime Minister, we recognize that this budget is different from the previous ones and that, even in its limitations, it maintains the recovery of income agreed by the majority and here voted: end of the overtax for the vast majority of families; replacement of public service wages; disqualification of pensions; increase of national minimum wage. In addition, it is a Budget that is testing measures towards fiscal justice, such as the end of IMI exemptions to investment funds, bank contributions and changes to the IRS that ensure the tax relief of the overwhelming majority of Portuguese families. The right has spoken of a budget of the « take there, give here». What they have not said is that, for every euro paid more by families, almost 2, 5 euros are returned. This is the first Budget in many years, from which families come out with more income than the one they entered with.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u100	We've been working on it and we'll keep working on it. I am sure that, in the specialty, we will find ways of correcting at least in part some of the limitations of the Budget. And above all we are certain of this: if it were not the agreement which established a new parliamentary majority in Brussels, it had not resisted the recovery of family income.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u102	Therefore, it is good for Mário Centeno to tell Shäuble and Dijsselbloem that we maintain, on the part of the Block, the same determination and that we continue to defend the country. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question on another subject. Do you remember one of the biggest mistakes on the right and what cost the country so much? The BANIF! EUR billions of taxpayers in the Bank and no executive administrator appointed by the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u104	The state paid, it didn't send! He's already robbed! Why repeat the mistake? in the TAP — whose privatisation business we think should be stopped — the plan of this government is to pay and not to order. Without any executive administrator, how can the Government guarantee flights to the port, or anywhere else, or any other public interest objective in the TAP? Oh, my God! How can we ensure that the public interest is served if the State does not send? Aren't we inviting a new assault? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u105	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u106	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, it is known from the outset that we have a different view of TAP. The PS has always admitted that there could be partial privatisation of TAP, in the impossibility of having an injection of public capital to ensure its capitalisation. This whole process could have been peaceful in the absence of the ideological obsession of the former Government to privatize the TAP at 100 %, at any time at any cost, and even if it was allowed to sign the contract on the day following its resignation by this Assembly of the Republic. Portugal is a rule of law and has to make it assert its legality. The situation in urban public transport was different, since the contracts were not concluded, the Court of Auditors had not targeted them and therefore there were no obligations and rights to guarantee. The case of TAP was different; there were rights and obligations to respect. What we have been trying to do was to recover what we felt was absolutely essential, which is strategic control, without prejudice to management being able to be private. Therefore, the company's governance model, which is now being implemented in the negotiation of the statutes, but which is already sufficiently drawn up in the memorandum of understanding, allows the State to intervene in what we consider essential to intervene, and this strategic dimension has, in fact, not having executive managers, an important capacity of intervention, with the veto right of the chairman of the board of directors, in relation to some decisions that have this strategic nature. We will not now, of course, solve the divergence we had before, but I believe that you will perhaps better understand the outcome we have achieved, given the circumstances in which we had to do this negotiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u107	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u108	I conclude now, Mr President. I think that what was essential was to ensure respect for the rule of law rules was guaranteed and I would therefore like to reaffirm that we will always defend the strategic interest of TAP, because the strategic interest of TAP is not for 2 years, it is not for 10 years, it is not for 30 years, it is forever, since TAP is Portugal's great vehicle for insertion into the global market, and that must be guaranteed forever. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u109	You have the floor, Mrs. Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u110	Mr. Prime Minister has already spent his time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u111	Mr President, Prime Minister, we agree that what the right has done could not have done. He couldn't have sold TAP when it wasn't even a government. It was all a raid on the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u113	But the solution that the government now has does not solve the problem of ownership because the privates continue there and does not have the problem of management solved because the State does not send.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u114	The state only pays!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u115	We believe that it is time to put an end to this dubious position between private and state, in which the State, paying, has so little power to defend the public interest. And that's why we're gonna keep fighting. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you another question, but since you do not have time to answer, I will say, in any case, what is the position of the Left Block on a topic, which I think is of the greatest importance in today's world. There were five inspectors of the Spanish Nuclear Security Council who warned that the cooling system of the Almaraz nuclear power plant was not functioning properly. In particular, they alerted to two failures of the motors of the central service pumps of the nuclear power plant. Almaraz is 100 km from the border with Portugal. Quercus has already defended the closure of the nuclear power plant, recalling that Portugal is not prepared to deal with a serious accident that would affect the border area, especially the districts of Castelo Branco and Portalegre. The risks for Portugal are both of water contamination — the central is in the river Tejo — and of atmospheric contamination due to geographical proximity. The faith of the Spanish government, who has already come to say that he trusts that everything is okay, cannot rest us on the advice of the technicians. This is not a question of trust, it is a matter of security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u117	I am concluding, Mr. President. In fact, Almaraz should not even be in operation. It is an old power plant from the early 1980s, whose closure was scheduled for 2010, but the Spanish Government extended its operation until 2020. What is now up to the Portuguese Government, recalling the risks of the power plant to our country and the fact that the planned life time has already been exceeded, is to require the Spanish Government to close at one time what should never have opened: the Almaraz nuclear power plant. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u118	The Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP is followed. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, you first said that you were going to end austerity; then they corrected and, after all, it was the principle of the end of austerity; then the budget outline fell and started what they called restrictions, which are the new name of austerity; and yesterday the Minister of Finance admitted additional austerity beyond the outline of the Budget and the letter of the European Commission. Mr Prime Minister, you have not answered a question I asked you for the fourth time. So for the fifth time — and to give you an opportunity to answer in the national Parliament — I ask you again the question: what additional measures are being prepared in Brussels? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister said here that additional measures were being prepared, so he must say in the national Parliament which are or, at least, whether they are on the side of expenditure or on the side of revenue. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u120	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u121	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, perhaps that was the case earlier, but now the measures are being prepared in Lisbon rather than Brussels. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u122	Even hurt!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u123	Mr Nuno Magalhães, I would like to ask you to have a Portuguese version of the Eurogroup communiqué available to make it clearer than what the Eurogroup said was that Portugal was making a commitment to now to prepare measures to carry them in portfolios if it was necessary to use them, having reaffirmed, in fact, the Minister of Finance that we judge and we are convinced that they will not be necessary. [[CDS-PP protests.]] When we have the measures prepared and if necessary use them, the Assembly of the Republic will certainly be aware of them. It could not, in fact, stop being otherwise. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u124	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u125	The measures we have already taken are those contained in the letter which the European Commission has issued and which, as you know, and I repeat, will not achieve the income of families, either by cutting wages or pensions, or by increasing labour taxes. Yes, we want to meet the growth targets, the employment targets, but also the deficit reduction targets and the debt reduction targets. That is why, as any responsible government does, it must prevent risks and act to strengthen confidence. And what we will do over this year is prevent risks and strengthen confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u126	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u127	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I did not say that, Mr Finance Minister said so in Brussels. In fact, the press has noticed. Mr. Prime Minister, I think it might be appropriate for you to know where Mr. Mário Centeno is. It is that whenever he goes to Brussels and returns more taxes for the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we gave you six opportunities for six silences. This is not just worrying to us, it is worrying to the Portuguese people who are listening and who know that, by nightfall, there will be an increase in taxes, as happened today: when they woke up, they realized that this was going to happen. You presented a sketch that refuted your electoral programme, then presented a Budget that killed your outline, will make additional measures and, in addition, will increase 6 cents per litre to gasoline and gas oil, through the silence of the night, to pay the favors you want to do to the Block and the PCP. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] I'll ask you two questions. First question, very concrete: is it committed to lowering the tax if the price of oil rises? Secondly, is the tax neutrality that you are talking about measured by the revenue that the State collects or by the price that the taxpayer and the motorist will pay? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u128	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u129	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, we do not deny our Programme. This is a budget that fully complies with what we commit ourselves to. We are committed - with the replacement of public officials' salaries - in the Budget is the replacement of public officials' salaries! We are committed - with the elimination of the overtax of the IRS - in the Budget is the elimination of the overtax of the IRS! We are committed to reducing the VAT of restoration — there is in the budget the reduction of the VAT of restoration! [[Hello?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u130	We are committed to the replacement of pensions — pensions are returned! We are committed - with the increase in national minimum wage - to the increase in national minimum wage! We are committed - with the replacement of the solidarity complement for the elderly - to the solidarity complement for the elderly! We are committed to the replacement of the RSI (social income of insertion) — the RSI is being replaced! Therefore, Mr President, I understand that this is a surprise, but this is a budget that meets our electoral commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it does more: it fulfills our electoral commitments and also fulfills our commitments with our parliamentary partners, because the commitments we have made with our parliamentary partners have not been made in hiding, have been taken in a clear, written and well-known way, and we will fulfill them. Mr President, I would like to say the following: we have already said — and we reaffirm — that we will reassess the rise of the ISP (oil products tax) if we change the evolution framework for the price of fuels. It is appropriate to have the notion of the picture in which we are. Last July, for each liter of gasoline or gasoline, the Portuguese paid 4 or 5 cents. After this Budget, by the same liter, they will pay 6 cents, which means the difference is 1 or 2 cents. But today's price is equal to what was in effect in December. Or rather, the price today, after the increase was introduced, is equal to that which was in force in December. This means that we are simply compensating in the ISP for the low VAT revenue resulting from the fact that, by lowering the price, VAT revenue has been reduced. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We are not increasing the tax effort of those who consume gas or gasoline, we are avoiding the tax puncture that is taking place in the public revenue due to the low oil price. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u131	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u132	Mr President, Prime Minister, what was not in your electoral commitments, nor in the commitments of those who support it, is the increase of petrol and gas oil. [[CDS-PP applause.]] What was part of your commitments was the replacement of 35 hours of work for public service, quickly, and now! Do you remember that well? You said it here, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u133	You voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u134	Listen, Mrs Rita Rato! And as a word given is an honest word, I would like you to tell us and the country when and for whom 35 hours will be returned in public service. By now, Prime Minister, I would like you to say if you think that more than 4 million Portuguese, therefore 85 % of Portuguese, pay for 15% to work 35 hours, when those 85 % work 40 hours. That gives the measure of what you intend to do to the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u135	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u136	But there is another subject I wanted to mention here. Mr. Prime Minister is speaking to the party that ended with the successive tax in Portugal for children and ascendants, for the simple reason that we understand, as anyone of good sense understands, we believe that those who are already taxed in life do not have to be taxed in death. Having heard the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, what does the Prime Minister have to say about the conversation of retroactively taxing donations?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u137	What's that?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u138	You will give what parents give to their children, what do grandparents give to their grandchildren, and what do brothers give to their brothers? Are you going to pay more taxes? Will it or will it not retroactively tax donations? This question is clear and that is why I hope for a clear and definitive answer. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u139	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u140	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, as you know, there is no change to inheritance and donation tax in the budget proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u141	You have the floor, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u142	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I find that you have just denied Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs. Can we be sure that Mr. Secretary of State is not going to take forward what he said he was going to start studying immediately after the Budget? If so, I think it must remove political consequences and, in particular, take the place of the Secretary of State. Does it compromise now and after the Budget? Yes or no? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u143	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u144	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I must tell you that I am puzzled.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u145	We're getting puzzled!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u146	Mr. Nuno Magalhães, what is worth is the color of the tie well chosen... [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, I am telling you, frankly, that the State budget is in this House and does not contain any proposals to that end. Mr. Secretary of State referred to a study and I did not deny that he was going to study. Do you think there's any harm in studying? There is one thing I would like to say to you: in this government, neither ministers nor state secretaries are going in and out of souls, because here there are no irrevocable resignations revoked the following day. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u147	You have the floor, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u148	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are talking about donations from parents to children, from grandparents to grandchildren, from brothers to brothers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u149	What about the pensions you cut?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u150	I mean, we're talking about donations, we're talking about the heart of private property. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And that, Prime Minister, concerns the Portuguese more than jokes, jokes or smoke curtains that you might want to do about what might happen tonight in a football game. [[CDS-PP applause.]] There's a country that pays the taxes that you raise at night. It is a country that may like football, but that certainly does not like you to increase taxes and, above all, to say what goes to the heart of private property. It is said that it is to study, but it is not to do; the Secretary of State announces, but you say no... you know what this reminds you, Prime Minister? Reminds 2011. And the Portuguese don't forget that! You have very little government time, but you already have a lot of arrogance and a lot of irritation. And that's what worries us the most. That is why, Prime Minister, this issue, for us, is absolutely fundamental. And you wanted me to be clear on this: will you study or change? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u151	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u152	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I know that you love to create ghosts. They went throughout the electoral campaign to speak of a social benefits cut-off ghost, which, as it has been observed, not only did not happen, as, on the contrary, were restored and increased. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] I ask you only, because time is short, which sets three numbers: EUR 1372 million is the whole increase in income that we make available to Portuguese families;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u153	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u154	... EUR 600 million is what increases the revenue of the taxes we raise; the balance is EUR 700 million, which this year will be more in the Portuguese families and less in the state's coffers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u155	The CDS-PP still has time, and once again Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u156	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in order to save an appeal to the Bureau, I will request that the interview of Mr Rocha Andrade State Secretary be distributed to the Journal of Business, of which I shall quote: "It is all open, until I charge donations already made. Do not keep on seeking. ” I am sorry, Prime Minister, that you do not have time to read what you are reading. Government members are on their way.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u157	All right! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u158	This is not a number, Prime Minister. This is the heart of private property, which concerns the Portuguese. PS protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u159	The heart of private property? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u160	We have to go to cardiology!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u161	Mr. President, I don't know if I have the conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u162	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u163	You think it's all private!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u164	Mr Nuno Magalhães, I ask you not to begin to intervene until the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u165	Mr. President, but time is running out.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u166	It'll be then discounted. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, today it seems clear that the financial situation, unfortunately — and I emphasise 'unfortunately' - for the country, it's spilling. And more: I am afraid we are beginning to discuss a budget already with a amending budget to be negotiated by April. That's bad. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know why that happens? Because you just tear it down, you didn't build anything! We received a deficit of 11 % and you received a deficit of less than 3 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u168	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u169	We received a recession and an unemployment of 17, 5 % and you received an unemployment of 11, 8 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u170	How? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u171	Mr. Prime Minister, which makes it clear that we also learned this week that almost certainly in 2015 we will again have a positive trade balance, with exports growing more than imports. Mr. Prime Minister speaks in confidence, but I think he should read better. It should be recalled that a year ago with the previous government, consumer confidence was at the level of 2001 and that of investors at the level of 2008!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u172	In January, consumer confidence has increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u173	I would have more humility, Prime Minister! It would have more humility and above all a direction, because what we have seen so far was to go back: it went back with TAP, with metropolitan transport, with labour reform, with fiscal reform, with the gradual replacement of income, which would prevent this sudden increase of taxes, with the contractual examinations with hospitals and with mercy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u174	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u175	I shall conclude, Mr President. What we have today is a country again considered a problem country; the interest was 2 % and is now over 4 % and the investment is stopped. And you know what the biggest problem is, Prime Minister? It is that most Portuguese today have the right to think that all efforts that have been made are being thrown out.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u176	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, since he likes to give advice so much, let me give him one : be careful with the image of Portugal, the reputation of Portugal and the credibility of Portugal. And above all, it respects the Portuguese themselves. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u178	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u179	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, first of all allow me to express our indignation at the unqualified pressures and blackmails on the country and the institutions which legitimately represent the interests of the Portuguese and which we have also been witnessing on the pretext of the preparation of the budget by the European Union. Life has given the CFP reason as to the nature of the European Union and its institutions and the need to break with its impositions and with the external constraints that the country faces. Without breach of these European Union taxes and without facing external constraints resulting from public debt or submission to the euro, it is not possible to respond to the serious structural problems that we face at the economic and social level. But what is most unworthy in this whole process is the attitude of the PSD and the CDS, which accompany blackmail and pressure and echoes when they are not themselves demanding Brussels' inflexibility against the interests of our country and our people. [[Congratulations from the PCP and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] They do not do so by sadism, but because they have an objective: to prevent any sign of reversal of the policies of exploitation and impoverishment that have played a role in the past four years and to make all and any positive measures for workers and populations, regardless of their scope. They had agreed that the cuts in wages and the increase in taxes they promoted were not temporary, but definitive, and therefore reacts as a reaction. They do not agree that full justice measures can be implemented in the Budget, such as the replacement of public administration salaries, the reduction and elimination of the overtax of the IRS, the replacement of the amendments to the reform of the workers of the EEA(state business sector ), the increase or increase of the social benefits of the family allowance, the social income of inclusion, the solidarity supplement for the elderly or the subsidy for assistance to the third person. They do not agree that the 2016 Budget includes measures to combat job insecurity in the public sector, to introduce the safeguard clause of the IMI, the hiring of family doctors or changes in a positive sense in relation to moderate rates. They do not comply with the purpose of exempting real estate funds within the IMI, increasing the contribution of the banking sector or measures for fairer taxation of profits, in particular with some limitation of tax exemptions. these four years have done wrong and now they want to do the caramunha, putting themselves on the side of the European Union against the country and the people, giving the opposite of those who said they wanted definitive cuts in wages. They wanted us particularly in reforms above 1000 €, but now they speak in the name of the middle class, whatever that is, putting themselves in the skin of defenders of those to whom they paid wages, incomes, rights and dignity of living conditions. [[PCP applause.]] As long as the PSD and the CDS are their demagogy, we will not let the plans they had to perpetuate the exploitation and impoverishment of the Portuguese people be forgotten and we will not fail to beat us for all the measures that could contribute to the reversal of this policy. We are facing a State budget with limited measures, namely little by little, but, in addition to the return of wages, incomes and rights, this government assumes a greater responsibility: we are returning hope to the Portuguese. That is what this government must try to defend and implement. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u180	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u181	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it is difficult to reconcile our ambitions for the country and share a set of common rules in a Union of 28. We do not have the same view of the role and position that Portugal should have in this Union as 28, but we have something in common that is absolutely essential: the need to reverse the policy that has been followed, in order to create conditions for sustainable economic growth, wealth creation, job creation, poverty reduction and greater social and territorial cohesion. That is what we want to start translating into this State Budget. This is the first Budget of the Parliament and therefore is not the final result of this Legislation. But this budget changes: after four years, where the available income of families has fallen more than 11 %, this is a State budget where the available income of families increases 2, 5 %. This State budget does not exhaust government policy. The Government's policy was accompanied by negotiations in social consultation of the increase in the national minimum wage. It is also accompanied by measures that have been adopted in the field of social protection, which here have indicated and described, from the family allowance, the increase of single-parent families, the IRS, the ISC, the support of the third person. All these measures are part of the income replacement effort. And the effort to restore income is not only essential to give hope to the beneficiaries themselves but also to give hope to the economy as a whole. When small and medium-sized entrepreneurs say repeatedly in the INE surveys that the main cause for not investing is the lack of expectations in domestic demand, we realize that it is essential to increase the income available from families so that they can increase the demand and therefore also the sale and production of goods by the national economy. When we talk to any small merchant on the street and ask « then, how are things going? What people say is "good, this is bad, because people have little money in their pockets. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, we all realize that it is necessary to increase the available income of families. And unlike what the right means to say and repeat, this is not a risky budget, it is not an unpredictable budget. No, this is a Budget that makes choices, makes choices and has a commitment to the Portuguese: we want to increase the minimum wage, we want to restore the salaries of public servants, we want to relieve the middle class, eliminating the overtax of the IRS. Yes, that is our commitment and these are the measures that the right claims are risky. What they say is to be risky is not to cut out the 600 million euros of pensions they had promised Brussels to cut! That's what they call risky! Now, our Budget is responsible, it is not risky: it restores income, but cuts where it should cut and increase where it should increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u182	That's really desperate!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u183	That's why the choices are made. We have reduced the overtax, but we have increased the bank's contribution to the Resolution Fund. We rest the safeguard clause in the IMI, but we eliminate the exemption of IMI payment from real estate investment funds. We eliminated the family coefficient, but introduced a child tax deduction that would support more people in need and not support those who had more income, as were the measures of the family coefficient. This is a responsible government, but it makes options, options on behalf of labour income, on behalf of the replacement of family income and on behalf of the creation of conditions for companies to invest. This is the way we have to go in order to relaunch the economy and to, by relaunching the economy, raise the hope of those who work and of those who invest. Only then can we have a more cohesive and more modernized society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u184	Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u185	Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, of course we will make a greater and more accurate assessment of the overall content of the draft State budget law, but, in this framework, I would like to raise another concrete question. We have already identified a number of positive measures, which are contained in the proposal for a State Budget Act, but we have also not stopped signaling shortcomings and limitations that concern us, particularly the issue of rising taxes on fuels, which has been widely referred to and criticized. In the meantime, Prime Minister, Galp made public disclosure of its financial results this week, showing a net profit of EUR 639 million, increasing 71, 5 % of the EUR 373 million achieved in the same period in 2014. Mr Minister, would it not be more appropriate, rather than increasing the effort on consumers and on small and medium-sized enterprises that referred to, directly confront Galp, Repsol, BP and other large companies, appropriately paying their profit and activity? Is this not a more friendly solution to development and economic growth? Would it not be more appropriate to find a solution for fixing the price of fuels that would take advantage of the low price of oil for our economy, our productive sectors and the development of our country? With the tolerance of Mr President, I ask you, Minister, one last question, which has to do with the following: you have certainly been informed that the Galician Board is inspecting all Portuguese milk that crosses the border to factories in Spain owned by Agros. 95 inspections have already been carried out in January, as well as throughout 2015, serving this basic operation to the award of a stamp that says « Produced in Spain » and that is indeed a barrier to Portuguese milk. Mr Prime Minister is sure that, unless measures are taken such as those taken in Spain and others, the production of national milk will disappear. It is not possible to produce milk at prices paid to our farmers. The milk of France, Spain, Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, continues to fill the national market and drown our producers and will thus end the production of one of the only strategic agri-food goods in which the country is self-sufficient, victim of previous government policies, in particular the latter, the PSD and the CDS. Are you going to let this happen, Prime Minister? [[PCP and PS Member Carlos César applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u186	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u187	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo, I begin with the first question you raised. We have had, from summer until now, a drop in the tax paid by litre of petrol or gas oil of the order of 5 cents. The increase now made basically compensates for the loss and decrease in the tax revenue of fuels from July to now. We have had a very particular concern about the impact of this measure on transport undertakings and, therefore, the same step in which we have made this update, the State budget states that the authorisation to extend the margin of deduction to the taxable amount of fuel costs for transport undertakings, which is now 120 %, which is a very important bonus so that this increase does not affect its activity and that it does not have to have an impact on the others. As you know, we have set out in our calendar that during 2016 we will look deeply into our tax system and therefore the more in-depth reflections on IRC should be made in this framework until the end of the first year of this Legislation, so that the tax system will be stabilized until the end of the Legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u188	I ask you to sum up, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u189	I will now finish, Mr President. With regard to this measure, what I stress is that if we compare the price of gasoline and gasoline with the tax now increased with the prices at the end of the year, we will see that gas is at the price of 18 December and that gasoline is at the price of 24 December. And we have already said more: if there is an evolution in another direction of the price of fuels, then we will be available to review the taxation of the ISP because the tax revenue will not be affected, since it will be accompanied by the corresponding increase in the revenue charged on VAT. The essential and what we wanted was to have fiscal neutrality for taxpayers, but also for the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u190	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u191	Mr President, Prime Minister, do you not notice that the right, the PSD and the CDS are completely unnerved, irritated, upset? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I am going to tell Mr. Prime Minister why I think this is happening: because, over the past four years, PSD and CDS, they have sought to create an illusion in Portugal that the path that they were drawing from a brutal austerity, which falls heavily on Portuguese families, was the only way forward. Now, suddenly, Mr. Prime Minister, you discover, you perceive and practice a different path, there is a turn, you practice alternative measures that do not fall on families, as they did. So this creates a certain disorientation for them. In fact, it's understandable that it is. So, what do you guys say? Well, Prime Minister : you have to say that this thing about the return of wages, the cut-off in the surcharge, the freezing of pensions, the replacement of certain fundamental support for the fight against poverty is a favor that the Government is doing to the parties which, with the Socialist Party, have signed a joint position. Now, as « The Greens» is one of these parties, I feel extremely honored with this favour, as qualified by the right, Prime Minister. And why? Because the right hand sees us, as those who are, in fact, on the side of the people and the Portuguese families and who wish to furnish this brutal burden on the families. [[PCP applause.]] But they say more: they say they're taking one hand and taking it with the other. Look at this, Mr. Prime Minister, coming from whoever took out with both hands and with all the hands and feet that he could. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]] They say this is a « take there, give here», those who just said « give here, give here and give here»! Mr. Prime Minister, this is absolutely unqualified and absolutely shameful. And, moreover, with regard to the European Commission, see well, Prime Minister, what they did: the European Commission blackmailed our country, they beat their feet, almost secretly, but in an obvious way, they said "make blackmail, blackmail, that we, PSD and CDS, well needed." This is absolutely shameful and must be unmasked, because the country, in fact, must be fed up with these absolutely unqualifying attitudes. Mr Prime Minister — and today I am going to make my next speech because I have already seen that I cannot manage my time well — I would like to ask you two more questions. Mr Prime Minister, it is time to start talking about the National Barrage Programme — in fact, this is a matter which is part of our joint position. In fact, many mistakes have been made following this Programme, particularly as we remember, the construction of your dam. New mistakes of this nature must not be made and therefore I want to know what the government's predisposition is to prevent the construction of the dams of the Hemisphere cascade. It is essential that we begin to look at a logic of energy saving and at a logic of conservation of nature and of the use of our resources on a different basis. Portugal already has more dams, enough dams for its energy production, we do not need more. So I ask: what is the predisposition of the government in this regard?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u192	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u193	I'm done now, Mr. President. By the way, if the Prime Minister could answer a question which has already been put here and which has to do with the issue of the Almaraz power station, it might be important to give this information to the country. Why? Because we are subject to a nuclear accident with very serious repercussions for Portugal. in fact, the life span of that nuclear power plant has long passed, so I would like to know what diligence and what follow-up is that the Portuguese Government is doing on this matter. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PCP and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u194	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u195	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the right is indeed clichéd, because the great programme on the right was to convince the country that only its policy was possible and that no alternative would be acceptable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They said it and repeated it for four years and said it and repeated it during this negotiation process. Perhaps the most unfortunate one was the Euro MP Paulo Rangel, but that everyone has mobilized, dreamed and prayed, certainly, for the European Commission and the Eurogroup to bring down the Budget there is not the least of the doubts, nor is there anything to cover it up. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Now they pray to the markets in the hope that they will be markets, or a rating agency to limit the Portuguese democratic decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a programme to implement and we will fulfil it in all its dimensions, in particular those that involve reducing deficits and debt, which involve reintroducing people's income and those that involve creating investment conditions for businesses. It's in all these dimensions that we're going to do. With regard to dams, the Minister of the Environment has already initiated the evaluation of the National Barrage Programme and is already a working group which, by the end of the first quarter of this year, will make a first evaluation. There are contacts, which, in fact, we have established with the dealers, and we know that, for some of the dams, there is predisposition not only not to execute them as in order to allow the demolition of those that are already disabled and out of use. Therefore, according to the timetable we have defined, at the end of the first quarter we will have conditions to move forward. On the other hand, we followed up with, and with concern, information on the situation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant — in fact, I was reminding the Secretary of State for European Affairs that for many years we have been involved in a demonstration against the construction of the Almaraz power plant, which shows and, indeed, the life of the power plant has been exhausted, which is also seen by my white hair — and we have been maintaining a permanent contact with the Spanish entities, in particular with the Spanish Nuclear Security Council, which has given us assurances. We follow up with the situation, we are insisting with Spain on the need for monitoring, on the high sensitivity that the issue has for Portugal, on the geographical position in which we are located and, once the new Spanish government is formed, we can certainly return to a formal contact on the subject. If you do not mind, I would like to take this opportunity, because it is about Spain, to tell Mr Jerónimo de Sousa that we are also taking due note of the adoption of measures which are practices that are restrictive to exports of Portuguese milk and that we are very concerned about the impact that the simultaneous end of quotas and the embargo on Russia has had on milk production, not only on the continent as in autonomous regions. For milk quotas, the decision is old, is known and was scheduled. With regard to the assessments to be made to the embargo on Russia, we have sought that the European Commission should study the possibility of the embargo with the exception of certain products or at least certain products with certain origins of regions which, because of their own characteristics, have greater difficulty in finding alternatives to flow to their product. So, Mrs. Member, thanking you twice for the question and the opportunity to have...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u196	Not that I like! Mr. Prime Minister. — I know you don't like it, and legitimately doesn't like it, but as it was about Spain, I didn't want to stop answering the question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u197	Mr André Silva, from the PAN, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the Minister for Agriculture is discussing a serious budgetary problem. He must find a solution to the financial hole of EUR 200 million that was created by the former Executive within the framework of the 2020 RDP. It is, however, necessary to understand and clarify the reasons for the financial deficit in Portuguese agriculture, a small detail only. The previous portal regulating support for the agro-environmental measures of the Programme until 2014 stated that « the amounts of support for production areas cultivated with genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are of zero value ». I would already bring it into force which regulates PSD 2020 deliberately omitted this condition. It should be noted that the allocation of support for GMO crops in the case of transgenic regadium maize is not prohibited at this stage. But what are the problems associated with this deliberate omission? There are several, but I'll stop in two. First: the public record is financing Monsanto's company; we Portuguese citizens and taxpayers are supporting the powerful and pernicious global transgenic industry. Secondly, and what is most important for the budgetary problem: the eligibility and eligibility of transgenic seedlings has led to a huge influx of applications for agri-environmental measures, which has largely exceeded the appropriations, favouring, once again, large projects and harming small farmers and all those who want to do organic farming and see themselves unable to do so. Mr. Prime Minister, there are no money left this year for support for the applications for PDR 2020, because they have been committed to major transnational regadion maize projects. Mr Prime Minister, the Government and the Socialist Party have no responsibilities on this issue; they will have responsibilities from now on because they are aware of this problem today. Mr Prime Minister, the following question is raised: when will justice and ethics be restored in the programme's application regime in the sense of the amounts of support for production areas cultivated with genetically modified organisms be of no value again?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u199	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u200	I will now finish, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, is this replacement accompanied by this, which prevents the drainage of millions of euros for these negotiations and enables the sustainability of the allocation of the funds of the 2020 PDR?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u201	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u202	Mr President, Mr André Silva, with regard to the GMOs, we have complied with and will enforce Community legislation. With regard to the budgetary impact, two phenomena were observed: firstly, the concentration in 2015 of all the implementation that was exempt from national counterpart, which obviously alleviated the 2015 Budget, but necessarily penalized subsequent budgets. This was a skilful way to alleviate spending and move on to others. Perhaps it was there that they were inspired by the idea of «take there, give here». They took the floor and now we have to rule without that word. It was therefore necessary in this budget to make an increased effort to strengthen the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture so that it could ensure the implementation of the 2020 RDP. in this sense, the overall reinforcement is EUR 25 million, and this will mobilise a total of EUR 88 million from the EAFRD ( European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development ), so that the consolidated expenditure is EUR 1052, EUR 5 million, which is more than the EUR 1026 million implemented last year. It will therefore be possible for the Ministry of Agriculture to continue, with great effort, the implementation of what was planned for the distribution of Community funds, already ensuring national participation this year, because the implementation of funds without national participation was exhausted in good time in 2015. This is the situation and that is how we will implement what is planned, in order to meet the production, export qualification needs, import substitutions and to improve the quality of Portuguese agriculture. That is what we are going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u203	Mrs. Members, having ended the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, we move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists of a preparatory debate by the next European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. First of all, to open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This European Council will have as one of the main themes the new UK relationship framework with Europe. The European Council shall endeavour to reach an agreement on the basis of the proposals of the President of the Council which have been negotiated in Brussels. for our part, we consider it very important that the United Kingdom remain in the European Union and we have maintained a constructive spirit in negotiating these proposals with a view to contributing to a result in the UK referendum on its participation in the European project linking the United Kingdom to its continuation in the European Union. These proposals include a draft decision of the Heads of State or Government meeting in the Council on four main themes: economic governance, competitiveness, the role of national parliaments and freedom of movement. The proposals on economic governance raise some questions for us. It is essential for us to ensure a sustainable way of living between the euro zones and not the euro areas that does not jeopardise the strength and viability of the euro and does not confer a veto on countries that, by not participating in the euro, cannot impose veto on decisions taken within the framework of economic and monetary union. We also defend that the differentiated rules on financial legislation can only take place when strictly necessary, avoiding compromising the integrity of the internal market. As far as competitiveness is concerned, we do not question the importance of the proposals put forward, but we will have to pay attention to their implementation and the achievement of national targets in this area. With regard to national parliaments, our position in principle is to strengthen their participation in the European process and, since there are already mechanisms in the Treaty for this purpose, we believe that the fair institutional balance should be ensured in the proposal presented by President Tusk and we consider it desirable to assess the mechanisms already defined in Protocol 2 to the Treaty of Lisbon. Proposals for the free movement of persons are undoubtedly the most critical issue, in particular the proposal for an alert and safeguard mechanism for social benefits related to work. We are left with doubts, particularly as regards safeguarding the founding principles of the European Union, such as the free movement of people and non-discrimination, which we would not like or be able to see places in question. Our reservations are shared by a significant number of Member States, and therefore the proposals should continue to be analysed and negotiated, but without ever losing sight that Portugal has been historically and perhaps in the future a country of emigration, where the safeguarding of the rights of Portuguese workers is essential to be ensured throughout the European Union. The European Council will again discuss the migration crisis, in particular the progress made in implementing the decisions taken in this area. The current migration flow to Europe is one of the greatest challenges currently facing the Union and, although Portugal is not one of the most affected Member States, we believe that this is a European problem and, as such, a problem of ours and, therefore, we want to contribute actively to the definition of a European solution and also in a bilateral way. It moves us, of course, solidarity, not only with those seeking refuge in Europe for war in their countries, but also with our European partners most affected by this crisis. in this measure, we agree with the priorities of the European Union in this area and with the importance of combating the root causes of migration, for example by strengthening cooperation with countries of origin and transit. But we are also moved by the desire to keep Europe open to the free movement of people, because if the solutions are not found in a European framework they will have to be in a national framework, and we all know that in migration issues the first reflection is the closure of borders. Now we want a single common external border and no internal border within the Union. We always advocate effective control of external borders. It is essential not only to contain the current influx of migrants but also to preserve one of the pillars of European construction, the Schengen area. We are therefore available to work on the Commission's proposal to create a European Coast Guard and Borders, which we have been defending for several years. We are also aware of the challenges faced by some Member States and have therefore defended the application of legal mechanisms, already provided for in the Schengen acquis, which allow, exceptionally and transitionally, the wider temporary control of internal borders. The European Council should endorse the draft Council recommendation on the economic policy of the euro area, which will then be formally approved at a Council meeting. The recommendation on the economic policy of the euro area has opened up five areas with a view to promoting convergence and correction of imbalances, continuing reforms in the labour market and ensuring adequate and sustainable social protection systems, ensuring responsible budgetary policies and progress in financial sector reforms, as well as further deepening of economic and monetary union. This is a procedure which fits and follows up the debate previously held, on the basis of the report of the five presidents. And, of all these objectives, we stress the importance of having been rehabilitated and strengthened the first objective of promoting convergence and correction of imbalances that, perhaps, few countries like Portugal, and by their continued experience since 2001, are in a better position to understand the urgent need to resume the convergence process and to correct the structural asymmetries which have both weakened the euro area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the debate stage. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to begin by putting a previous question to Mr. Prime Minister. I know that he did not have the opportunity to answer all the questions raised in the previous debate, but there is one that somehow has to do with the fulfilment of European rules, and it is important that they should be clarified once and for all. In fact, I had the opportunity to ask you this question precisely 50 days ago on 23 December and concerns whether or not an independent external audit of the Banif case. We tabled this question on 23 December in a debate where the Prime Minister was present and participated, we tabled this proposal and was rejected by the plenary of the Parliament and we resubmitted this proposal to the Committee of Inquiry. And the question is very simple, Prime Minister? What is it that the Socialist Party and the Government are afraid that an external and independent audit of the Banif case will be carried out? What is there to hide in order to prevent all that involved and involved in this process from being scalpelized? Mr Prime Minister recently noted that he did not listen to this question and therefore wanted to start by reaffirming it and, in essence, by urging the Government to supply on its own initiative what the Assembly of the Republic, through the parties that support it, did not really wish to carry it out. On the subject of economic governance, we have noted the comments that Mr. Prime Minister here has just made, but there is a problem that the Portuguese Government has at the moment, which is a question of credibility. It is very difficult for the Portuguese Government to make their voice heard in Europe, when in Europe everyone is suspicious of the Portuguese Government's forecasts, everyone talks about the uncertainties of the Portuguese Government's decisions and everyone shows that they do not believe in the Portuguese Government's decisions. Objectively, although the word « confidence» tells Mr. Prime Minister a lot, two months ago of government action, Mr. Prime Minister is the champion of distrust, and this is the main problem we will have in order to make our voice heard in Europe. I know, Mr. Prime Minister, that at other times the opposition, at the time led by the Socialist Party, stood up very much in his voice saying that Portugal was very submissive at the European level. For now, with this new government, this certainly has ended and therefore everything that Mr Prime Minister and his government say in Europe is welcomed, as if indeed we have seen in this budgetary procedure, because we are already in the third or fourth amendment of those which were the main guidelines of the budget proposal. However, Mr Prime Minister, in the debate we had, the preparatory session of the last European Council, I had the opportunity to question the Government and the Prime Minister about the completion of the banking union process and in particular on an important subject, which is the creation of the common system of deposit guarantee. I note that in the conclusions of that Council, this issue has disappeared. I therefore ask the Prime Minister directly what has been the voice of the Portuguese Government in Europe on this matter, and it is true that banking union is also important for the recovery of our finances and our economy. Then, an issue which Mr Prime Minister did not address in his speech, but which I believe he does not know. on 26 January, a large group of countries that integrate cohesion policies made a joint statement on the implementation, simplification and effectiveness of the use of European funds. A key idea of this statement was to reaffirm that cohesion policy must continue to be a priority of the European Union after 2020, therefore after the Community support framework which is currently in force. And I believe that this is a relevant issue for Portugal and the Portuguese. But I ask you: why did Portugal not participate in this statement? Mr. Prime Minister, are the government distracted? When in 2013 the Portuguese Government with the Polish Government led precisely the so-called « Group of Friends of Cohesion » and achieved excellent results in the European Union's financial perspective, they said that we did not have a voice in Europe. So, where is the voice of Portugal now? Have you forgotten us? Was the government distracted? Mr. Prime Minister spoke and no one heard him? What happened, Prime Minister? I think it was important to also have a note on this issue. On the migration crisis, Mr Prime Minister, we have followed some of the comments you have made here, but I would also like to say the following: Mr Prime Minister has not taken up — and I believe it is important that we do so at the European Council — that this dossier has had too many difficulties in implementing it and objectively in a programme involving 160 000 refugees, there have been fewer than 500 relocations. In Portugal, for example, there were about 30, as much as it is public. The question that arises, Prime Minister, is what intervention we can have at the European Council in order to avoid, eventually, excessive bureaucracy. I do not know whether this is the justification or whether it is the very inoperability of the local authorities in the registration systems, but it is important and urgent that we can see why there has been this incapacity. I know that with regard to Portugal, Mr. Prime Minister had the opportunity to go to Berlin and meet with Chancellor Merkel and we also had the opportunity to verify that he had given an interview to a German newspaper, where he said that Portugal wants to welcome integrated immigrants—I believe that it was the expression he used. And when the Portuguese Prime Minister was asked to be able to carry out what it was as "integrable immigrants", Mr. Prime Minister said they were immigrants who could work. But the answer was curious, because I said, ahead of all, that we had many rural areas that were depopulated, where it was necessary...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u207	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u208	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the answer was curious, because I said, ahead of all, that we had many rural areas, where there was a need for people with agricultural experience, such as shepherds or harvest workers. Mr. Prime Minister, after that take-off of the landfill, here is the new government action plan, I believe, for this matter. But let me tell you, Prime Minister, that these ideas seem to us too preconceived and discriminatory and do not actually favour the integration of refugees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u209	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u210	Europe needs to ensure that its citizens and refugees are guaranteed dignified living conditions, conditions of free movement, as I said recently, and also guarantees opportunities at all levels. I believe that it would be good for the Portuguese Government not to lower the capacity of these people, who are looking for a life project in Europe, and a happy life project in Europe. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u211	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u212	Mr President, Prime Minister : at the next European Council there are two central issues, namely negotiations with the United Kingdom and the response to refugees. The United Kingdom has decided to refer to its presence in the European Union, i.e. the British will be called upon to decide whether or not they want to continue in the European Union. It is a democratic decision of a sovereign state that must be respected. I have even checked in recent times that the Portuguese right, when it comes to democratic decisions in the United Kingdom, even if European paradigms are involved, does everything to ensure that democratic dialogue continues.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u213	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u214	PSD and CDS, which here, as in the European Parliament, have stood up against a Portuguese budget which does not observe the most orthodox austerity, because democracy there cannot be worth, now unfold in statements on the need to negotiate with the United Kingdom and respect its democratic referendum decision. We in the Bloc also believe that no European orthodoxy can be replaced by the democratic legitimacy of peoples, whether in the United Kingdom or Portugal. But much of what is being negotiated has very little to do with democracy, namely ending freedom of movement and denying social protection to immigrants. A European Union in which capital can move freely but people are persecuted has no connection with democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u216	We do not accept that the United Kingdom is proposing to remain in the European Union with the possibility of continuing to gain European capital circulation in the City of London while closing the borders on the citizens of other European States. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u217	And we consider it intolerable that, on the pretext of the referendum in the United Kingdom, if it is preparing legislation that allows European States to deny social protection to citizens of another State. Portugal must be at the forefront of this extreme social violence. And we must do so, not only because we have to defend the Portuguese who live in the United Kingdom, Germany or France, and we cannot afford a decision that excludes them from access to social protection, thus refusing them, because they are foreigners, a basic right of citizenship, but also because they admit that social protection is granted by a Member State of the European Union based on the nationality of people has a name: xenophobia. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u218	A European Council that admits to making xenophobia a law is one of the symptoms of the arrival of the extreme right to the heart of the European Union. A xenophobic European Union is neither a union nor a European one, much less democratic. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is this disaggregated European Union that therefore proves unable to deal with the refugee crisis. Where are the humanitarian corridors for whom he crossed the sea fleeing the war and can find security on earth? Oh, my God! Where are the thousands of missing children, to whom the trail has been lost, because Europe has condemned them to abandonment? Oh, my God! Portugal's position at this European Council must be firm against xenophobia and firm in the defence of human rights. Humanitarian runners, now! Protect the children now! Protect those who seek to escape the wars in which the Union has serious responsibilities now! It's just that refugees aren't a nightmare, they're the ones who run away from the nightmare...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u220	...and Europe, of whom asylum was expected, is revealed shamefully a new nightmare. That a NATO team under German command has been assigned to carry out naval patrol operations in the Aegean Sea—and we know well that " patrol operations" is an euphemism for refugee flow dam operations—is a sign that this nightmare is really a nightmare!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u222	As in everything, good words are not enough. And as in almost everything, you need to know where the money is going. The European Union has agreed on a plan to support Turkey, with regard to refugees. It is EUR 3000 million paid by all countries, including Portugal. We have no doubt that Portugal must be supportive of the response to the crisis. We have defended this and we continue to defend it, but we need to know what we are contributing to. Turkey has a history of persecution of refugees and attacks on the Kurdish people, who are on the ground fighting against the terror of Daesh. And now the European Union is giving this Government EUR 3000 million, without any guarantee of how they will be used. And in the Portuguese budget, there is our share of that support.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u223	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u224	It's possible they're...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u225	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u226	With this, I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, is it possible that we are being asked to trust the Erdogan Government to defend human rights and protect refugees? Oh, my God! Do you want us to trust anyone who has denied the opening of humanitarian corridors to support the Kurdish people, surrounded by Daesh? Oh, my God! We do not hesitate in the solidarity obligation of Portugal, we have massive guarantees that support is to defend human rights and not to attack them. This is a requirement to be put on this European Council. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u227	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : The next European Council has two key themes, namely the refugee crisis and the referendum in the United Kingdom. Let me, Prime Minister, begin with the latter, with a note and a concern. Europe, and Portugal, in particular, must fight to have the United Kingdom within it. The presence of the United Kingdom in Europe emphasizes our Atlantic aspect, gives us importance in NATO, increases the capacity of the internal market and can even guarantee a balance so that the Union does not go too far. But the maintenance of the United Kingdom in the Union cannot be called into question the fundamental principles and freedoms on which we have built the Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u230	... in particular the freedom of movement of Europeans within the European area. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Commission's proposal to the United Kingdom cannot fail to be seen with great concern from Portuguese perspective. The Commission is not talking about limiting third-country citizens'access to the Union, from outside the Union, the Commission is talking about limiting the free movement of European citizens within Europe, which is harmful to Portuguese interests. We know that the euro is no longer what it was, we know that Schengen is no longer what it was, we cannot let freedom of movement in Europe for Europe cease to be what it was. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, if this amendment to the United Kingdom is approved as proposed, what will prevent other countries from asking for exactly the same? Oh, my God! We are not talking about Englishising a rule, we are talking about communitarianizing an exception. I want to tell you that what we have heard so far from the Government of Portugal has been a critical position and this criticism has our support. But I would like to hear here today, from the mouth of the Prime Minister of Portugal, what will be his position on freedom of movement in the next Council, because this is very important for the Portuguese and our interests. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u231	Mr. Prime Minister, the second issue is about refugees. The truth is that we are now living on our border the greatest humanitarian crisis for many decades. Europe has a humanist, personalist tradition, which has to be able to honor, but unfortunately the truth is that European politics has so far been a failure. We have Member States that do not meet the objectives proposed for refugee reception quotas.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u233	About 1 million refugees who are currently in the European Union have only been integrated into the States of 272 refugees to date. We have a European Commission which has criticised, in a very harsh way, the lack of screening of refugees in border countries, especially in the case of Greece, and the fact is that, until today, we have failed to implement a system that effectively achieves what are refugees, that flees from areas in a state of war, from economic migration and what may even potentially be jihadist cells, which take advantage of the system's failures to move to Europe. And, Prime Minister, this issue is very serious, because this is what often makes it ground so that many populisms, so that many extremisms, throughout Europe, can fatten.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u235	It is enough to see the case of Greece — which, of course, the Left Block often ignores — in which there is a government of hands united between the extreme left and the extreme right. And that should concern us all, too. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, we cannot ignore that, in January this year, five times more immigrants have arrived in Europe than in the same period. The risk of trafficking in persons, especially children, among these refugees is enormous. Europe has, by spring, to realistically implement two essential principles of policy. The first is to treat, welcome, integrate with dignity and humanity the refugees who have fled from war zones and who are already about 1 million, and we have, fortunately, in Europe this good tradition of humanism, of personalism, which is very important. The second principle is to point out that our priority is to welcome those who are already here, but at this rate it is not possible to continue to integrate all those who want to migrate to Europe. This probably implies intervening within the Union, but also supporting, helping, migrants in their countries of origin. Measures such as humanitarian aid in the vicinity of Syria, implementing the EU / Turkey action plan, correcting the shortcomings of the Schengen mechanism, operating the screening hotspots, especially in Greece and Italy, or for example achieving the creation of the European Coast Guard are measures that, from our point of view, deserve support.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u237	I'd like to know, from the mouth of the Prime Minister of Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u238	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u239	... what the Portuguese Government is going to defend in the European Council on 18 and 19 February. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u240	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u241	Mr President, Prime Minister : The agenda of the next week's European Council well reflects the size of the European Union crisis and the fundamental contradictions that are going through and corrode this process. Let's start with the question of Great Britain. What highlights the negotiation process are three fundamental ideas, the first of which is that all this results in a deplorable instrumentalisation of the British people, critical of the European Union, which goes right to the interests of the powerful London City and the agenda of the extreme right. What is under discussion is not the legitimate popular will and aspirations of the British people, but rather emerging contradictions between powers, within a European Union in deep crisis. And, as history teaches us, it shocks the door to the extreme right. This leads us to the second idea, so far the result of this process and a reactionary exit: the negotiating packages contain political lines of true social and civilizational regression, which deepen very negative policies of the European Union and open serious precedents to the level of labour and social rights, the discrimination of workers and citizens according to their nationality. This eliminates any positive sense that might have some respect for the particularities of each Member State and its sovereignty, because, as you know, we are talking about inextricable negotiating packages.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u243	The third idea, Prime Minister, could summarize it in a sentence: if there are children and children in the European Union, this discussion is only possible because Britain is a power. As far as Portugal is concerned, and as last week has shown, all means are used to condition sovereign decisions in our country and in this Parliament and to impose political and ideological options. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u244	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u245	It will certainly answer us that Portugal is in the euro and that there are rules, but, as the reality demonstrates and as Mr Prime Minister has already acknowledged, these are rules that make the budget proposal worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u246	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u247	On the question of refugees, what is going on is beyond all limits. The situation is chaotic in hotspots, where thousands and thousands of refugees are disappearing — among them an indeterminate number of children — there are states that build walls, adopt xenophobic and racist legislation, as is the case not isolated from Denmark.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u248	What about Greece? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u249	And what does the European Union do? Follow that line. The word of order is to identify to expel, it is to create as many barriers as possible and pay the buffer states, such as Turkey, to create genuine 21st century concentration camps there. This is not tolerable! It is a situation that should put us all in shame! We are walking a long way towards the barbarity and admit that NATO is going to the Mediterranean to intervene militarily in a humanitarian issue. We well know that Mr. Prime Minister has announced positive unilateral measures by the Portuguese State and that we wanted to value here. We encourage you to defend a reversal of European Union policy next week in the face of this humanitarian drama. What is needed is not to cause more deaths, nor to close at meetings dozens of Eurocrats more concerned with the Schengen Treaty than with the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. What is needed, and extremely urgent, is to create safe and legal routes for migrants, is to repeal the Dublin Convention, which has proved to be an instrument of conditioning for the rights of refugees, to decide on the reallocation of funds for the return of migrants and the control of border police for policies to promote safe and legal crossings for immigrants and their social integration in host countries. And again, we tell you: we oppose measures such as the creation of the European Coast Guard. Mr. Prime Minister, a last note related to the tragedy of refugees, because they run away from war and death. International tension, as you know, is enormous. Portugal must defend restraint and diplomatic route by all means. The dangers are very great, and that is why we would like to express our concern with statements by your Minister of Defense, who not only points to the strengthening of the involvement of Portuguese military in foreign military missions, particularly on the African continent. We're against! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u250	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u251	Mr President, Prime Minister : I wanted to leave three very short notes. The first is about something I would have liked to have mentioned in the previous speech and I did not do so but I think it is important for me to be stated here in the House of the Republic. The Greens strongly condemn the statements made by the German Minister of Finance when he said that Portugal cannot disturb markets because markets are nervous and that is dangerous. With these words, Prime Minister, it is as if this minister, with his responsibility, was appealing to the nervousness of the markets. This is not good faith, it harms us and harms the European Union. I would therefore like to leave this position of the Greens here very clearly. With regard to refugees, Mr Prime Minister, we are faced with an extremely serious humanitarian crisis, and we all recognize it. But when, at European Union level, the answer, rather than being to guarantee humanitarian routes, to welcome, to integrate, is mostly to identify, contain and to expel, here is something that is not playing well. So, Prime Minister, either we are consistent with values or, if we are without values, it is good that we gain values. Thus, the Greens' request is that Mr. Prime Minister rightly convey this need to gain values at the level of the European Union, in particular with regard to solidarity with people who flee from death and destruction and actually seek an alternative of life and survival, which is no less. I also wanted to say one last word about the United Kingdom. When and if the negotiation goes through the social disprotection of citizens of other Member States—here you are, Prime Minister! — these are the values that come down there. And we need to gain values. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u252	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the time available for the PS Parliamentary Group to intervene will be shared between two Members. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : The theme of BANIF is a serious issue which has been left to this government by the former, but is not yet scheduled for the European Council. I will therefore turn to the issues scheduled for the European Council, in particular two, which relates to the dossier for creating conditions for the United Kingdom to remain in the European Union, as is the will of the majority of European citizens, and to the dossier for the migration crisis. On the first issue, I begin by stressing the effort of all to create sufficient conditions for the United Kingdom to solve some internal problems and concerns and to refer to the question of their stay in the European Union in good condition. These conditions appear to be reflected in the draft decision of the Heads of State or Government on a new framework for the United Kingdom in the European Union. I note that this agreement is of course in line with the essential requirement which the Government has always stressed: it does not require any changes to the treaties. Of course, there are still legal doubts as to how this agreement should take and how it should be approved, including the participation of this House in this approval, but we will have time to consider this, since this issue will only be put after the British referendum is held and a possible and desirable « yes » to the UK's stay in the European Union. I also stress two aspects of this agreement, one positive and the other critical. Positive is the strengthening of the role of national parliaments in the functioning of the European Union, with the creation of what we can call a'red card' ; criticism is somewhat yielding, which is expected, in some aspects relating to social benefits and freedom of movement of people, but we are confident that these concessions requested by the United Kingdom will not have a negative impact, particularly on Portuguese citizens. And we are aware and confident of the firmness with which the Portuguese Government is following this. In fact, it is enough to read the international press and see what the chancellors say to realize that in this case the Portuguese Government has been firm in defending the national interests of all European citizens in order to protect their freedom of movement. But, Prime Minister, another critical issue calling on the best European principles is that of refugees. Portugal has been at the forefront of building European solutions that give global and coherent answers and that materialize the principle of solidarity between all Member States. However, Portugal has not remained responsible for assuming and respecting its responsibilities in this multilateral context. This is demonstrated by the recent initiative of the Prime Minister to offer Germany the willingness to receive 2000 refugees in that country. And it is wrong for the PSD to devalue this initiative in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, Prime Minister, the European response remains weak: the hotspots in Greece and Italy, for which Portugal has already indicated the elements of linkage, are not yet working ; all placements are happening at an unsatisfactory rate; the European funds are coming late; the borders continue to close. Schengen is suffering more and more threats. What we ask you here, Prime Minister, is that you also be firm in defending Schengen and in defending a coherent and complete European policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u254	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, recently mentioned the report of the five presidents. The Socialist Party has always been a leading party in the process of European construction. We believe in Europe of growth, employment and convergence and there is no monetary union, as Mario Draghi, President of the ECB, said, without a genuine banking union. The Portuguese Government has endeavoured to deepen the banking union and, in particular, to create equal conditions for banks in all Member States. This is only possible if there is a European deposit guarantee mechanism. We believe in economic and monetary union, but on equal terms in which all economies and all banks can participate in the construction of a more convergent Europe, with equal opportunities for all Member States and their citizens. The question of banking union and, in particular, of the deposit guarantee mechanism will have fallen from the agenda of this European Council, but it certainly did not fall from our priorities and therefore, Prime Minister, the question we have put is very objective: how does the Portuguese Government view the European deposit guarantee mechanism and how does it, with other Member States, such as Italy, which has also been struck by the faster implementation of this mechanism, address this issue in order to build a fairer economic and monetary union? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u256	We turn to the end of the debate. For an intervention, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on a telegraphic basis, I would like to say very clearly to Mr Luís Montenegro that we have nothing to hide and therefore in my statement on the very night of 20 December, I invited all the authorities to see what will be done about BANIF. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I see with satisfaction that the Assembly of the Republic has already done so and I hope that the other authorities, both those who have unfortunately renounced the exercise of their supervisory powers, or those who protect other instruments for the clearance of truth and the punishment of responsibilities, will not cease to do so, because they will certainly have much to work on this history of BANIF. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u258	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u259	Mr. Luís Montenegro, do you know what undermines Portugal's credibility? What undermines the credibility of Portugal I felt well when I had to solve in 15 days a problem that, for three years, your government dragged... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and after the former Minister of Finance has committed itself in December 2014 to finding a solution until May 2015 and, because of the elections, and for other reasons that will certainly come to the fire, have not solved this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u260	But what is that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u261	That's what mines, yes, credibility! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I believe, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, that the creation of the common deposit guarantee mechanism is a key element in preventing the asymmetric effects of the euro area on the different economies and the asymmetrical burdens of the banking union. We accept the obligations, but we also want the guarantees that banking union can be an instrument for stabilising the euro area and not a new problem. Indeed, the agitation of the markets registers as well as an incomplete, poorly explained and poorly assumed banking union by the markets can have quite significant consequences for all of us. We have no change in cohesion policy. Mr Luís Montenegro, I am sure that the government that was in office at the time the meeting took place did not get distracted and therefore I have no doubt that the Government that was before me assured the representation of Portugal at the meeting that took place the day I myself took possession. Therefore, surely, the previous government was not distracted in the performance of its duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will now focus on two fundamental issues. First of all, as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has said, what underpins Europe is the values. You are right, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, Schengen is no longer what it was, the euro is no longer what it was. But there is one thing we need to know: we want to restore Europe which was, that which was based on its values and, of course, on a fundamental value, which is the value of the dignity of the human person. It is therefore Europe's duty to ensure protection for those who lack international protection and who are at the gates of Europe. It is Europe's duty to accept those who ask for asylum. We must be able to accept and assume our responsibilities. I have said that this is not a problem in Germany, Greece or the countries that have been most under pressure from the refugee crisis. This is a problem for everyone, it is a problem for us too, and we must be on the front line for your solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must be collaborating on missions at the request of our partners, such as Greece or Turkey, who have applied for our participation in a mission within NATO or other external border protection missions; we must be available to cooperate in hotspots mounted by the European Union and which are not at all functioning; how we should be available either on a multilateral basis or on a bilateral basis, to be able to host refugees in Portugal. It was in this sense that, in addition to the availability we have shown to the European Union, I have shown to Germany, Italy, Sweden, Austria and Greece additional availability to do so on a bilateral basis. I know what refugee integration is. Ten years ago, when there was the crisis of refugees in Ceuta and Melilla and several countries in central and northern Europe were absolutely indifferent to the migration crisis, which they thought was a restricted problem of Spain and the southern border, we were also supportive. We have experience in welcoming and integrating refugees. But integrating refugees is not only protecting them from war or persecution, it is creating conditions for them to be integrated into society to have a new opportunity to rebuild their lives. Therefore, the distribution of refugees within the framework of the European Union should take into account the profiles appropriate to integration into Portuguese society. There are certainly many opportunities in the rural world in Portugal, but I have given other examples, including the vacancies we have in professional schools, political institutes, universities. I have also available to welcome about 2000 university students, benefiting from, in fact, the good experience of the pilot project of President Jorge Sampaio, which has shown that we have capabilities. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] But what is a preconceived attitude, honourable Member, is that we only want engineers, highly qualified students, but we do not want anyone who can work in the field, who can shepherd, who can explore the forest, who can work in the vegetable and fruit sector. That's being preconceived! And the Portuguese Government is working to find a very wide range of opportunities, from the university student to the pastoral care, so that we can accommodate refugees. This is because we must protect everyone and not only those who, because they are qualified or have qualifications, can go to our universities. Don't! Others also deserve protection and others also have a duty to protect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Europe we have and we want is a Europe that has a common external border but cannot have any borders within the Union. We therefore oppose the creation of any kind of barrier which, directly or indirectly, has an effect equivalent to the restriction of freedom of movement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u262	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u263	Mr. President, I'll be done. We have the oldest alliance in history with the United Kingdom. No one else can wish for the UK's stay in the European Union. But the United Kingdom's presence in the European Union must be made within the framework of the fundamental rules of the European Union and one of its fundamental freedoms is freedom of movement. The proposal by the President of the Council to convert an exception applicable to the United Kingdom into a rule which is no longer invoked by the other 27 Member States is not to solve the situation, it is to multiply by 27 a solution which was already unacceptable for one country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we have had, and we will always have, a constructive attitude. We will do everything possible to ensure that the United Kingdom feels comfortable within the European Union. But no one can ask Portugal to align itself in the sacrifice of what is a central value of the Union as we have it, nor can it harm or threaten the present and future of a people who, throughout their centuries-old history, always had, at many times, to start and seek work in other places. It is not enough to guarantee the rights of the Portuguese today. It is also essential to guarantee the rights of the Portuguese of tomorrow, from which 10, 20, 30 or 40 years from Portugal may have to leave to find work in another country of Europe, as has happened so many times in our history. The guarantee and protection of the rights of migrant workers are essential, which is a central issue for us in this debate and in the resolution of this dossier. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u264	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded item 3 of our agenda. I note that, for a while, the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2016 was not included in the agenda, although there was consensus at the Conference of Leaders that it should be entered today without time. We say goodbye to the Prime Minister and to the other members of the government, and then we will proceed to the vote. I remember the ladies. Members who are running the elections to the Higher Council of Internal Security, the Committee on Equality and Against Racial Discrimination and the Higher Council of Information and the polls will remain open until 15 minutes after the vote has been completed so that everyone can vote, in particular the members of the Bureau, in which I myself include myself. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the vote on the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system, so I ask the services to activate it. I request the ladies and gentlemen. Members who register as soon as the system is in place. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 218 presences, plus 1, of the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto, who failed to register, making a total of 219 Members present, so we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us begin by voting No 40 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — From the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation ( MGF ) ( Sub-Commission on Equality and Non-Discrimination of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees ). I ask the Secretary, Mrs Idália Serrão, to read the vote. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On the occasion of the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation ( MGF ), on 6 February, the Assembly of the Republic signs the condemnation of this scourge and the commitment to the eradication of this practice that has already victimized about 140 million girls and women worldwide, estimated at 3 million potential annual victims. FGM is an unacceptable violation of human rights, the full exercise of citizenship and equal rights to physical integrity and health, particularly sexual and reproductive. The European Union recognizes that thousands of girls and women living in Europe have been or are at risk of being victims of FGM. Portugal was the first country in the European Union to ratify in February 2013 the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ( Istanbul Convention ) and unanimously approved the empowerment and strengthening of the crime of MGF. national public policies underline the successive action plans, currently implementing the III Programme of Action for the Prevention and Elimination of Female Genital Mutilation. Portugal has fought this scourge through awareness-raising campaigns and the creation of the national register of cases and risk situations. Despite the important efforts made it is imperative to maintain a political commitment to the eradication of MGF. Thus, under the applicable regulations and constitutional provisions, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation, reaffirming the commitment to the eradication of this scourge and the defence of human rights. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u266	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote on the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2016. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 87 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Launch of a cultural intervention programme in Brazil, following the fire at the Museum of the Portuguese Language of São Paulo ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 148 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government deepen institutional and operational cooperation between the Trucks — Institute for Cooperation and Language and the entities responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the Portuguese Language Museum with a view to restoring the Museum and restoring the technological acquis ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u267	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u268	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u269	Mr President, it is only to inform that, for the last two votes, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u270	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote for a period of 90 days on Bill No 129 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 5 / 2011 of 2 March approving the Law of Portuguese Honorary Orders, incorporating the Order of Trucks under national orders ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 71 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of the transitional period provided for in the status of teaching careers of university and technical higher education, ensuring conditions for the completion of doctoral studies and correcting injustices ( BE) ( the initial text was replaced by the author of the initiative ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 146 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the creation of a new transitional regime for the completion of the degree of doctor and effective recruitment with public links of public higher education teachers ( CFP ) ( the author of the initiative has changed point 1 of the resolution ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 150 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure fairness in the application of transitional schemes for public higher education ( PS ) education career statutes. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 30 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent resolution of environmental problems in São Pedro da Cova ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 99 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the complete removal of hazardous waste deposited in the former coal mines of São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, and the measures to correct and contain environmental impacts on the site ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP and the BE.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 121 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of hazardous waste deposited in São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, environmental monitoring of the landing site with a view to informing populations and protecting public health ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 136 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to resolve the environmental liabilities of the former mines of São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar, and identify each of the actors involved in the decision-making and control chain in the deposition of toxic waste with a view to the clearance of financial and criminal responsibilities, as well as to ensure that any amounts unduly paid ( CDS-PP ) are paid. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP and the BE.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 144 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the conclusion of the removal and treatment of hazardous waste in the scraps of the ancient mines of São Pedro da Cova ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 151 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Final resolution of the environmental problem resulting from the deposition of hazardous waste in São Pedro da Cova, Gondomar ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Since there are so many draft resolutions with the same objective, he asked the various parliamentary groups to make an attempt to write one or two texts that did not question the votes made here, in order to prevent me from having to sign for publication so many different projects to say the same thing, which seems to me to be something relatively absurd. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 38 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the secondary school of Quinta do Peru in the parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 19 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of secondary school in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, Setúbal district ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 137 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of secondary school in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, Setúbal district ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the Greens' abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 142 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of Peru's secondary school in the parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 147 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The urgent need for a secondary school in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ( Os Verdes ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 149 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prioritize the construction of the Quinta do Peru school in the municipality of Sesimbra ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Like the previous situation, with regard to these last draft resolutions, the Bureau calls for the same effort of dialogue and convergence for parliamentary groups to be able to draw up a single text.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u271	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u272	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u273	Mr President, it is to inform that the statement of vote we wish to deliver refers to the vote on draft resolutions 137 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 142 / XIII ( 1. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u274	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u275	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u276	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u277	Only to inform the Bureau, Mr President, that the left bloc parliamentary bench will present a declaration of vote on the same draft resolutions 137 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), of the CDS-PP, and 142 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) the PSD referred to by Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u278	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. André Pinotes Batista, do you ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u279	Mr President, first of all, I want to say that we will make this consensualization effort. Then I would also like to say that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the motions for resolutions referred to above.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u280	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Hélder Amaral, do you also ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u281	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that the CDS-PP bench will present a statement of vote on the votes we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u282	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 86 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of the Mondego Metro Company and replacement, modernization and electrification of the Lousã Ramal ( PCP ). With regard to this draft resolution, the Left Block requested that points 1 and 2 be voted on together and point 3 be voted on separately. Let us begin by voting together on points 1 and 2. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from PS, BE and CDS-PP were adopted.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u283	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u284	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u285	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that I will present a statement of vote on the vote on point 1 of this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u286	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, do I suppose you ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u287	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the votes of this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u288	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Coimbra, would you like to speak for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u289	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that the members of the Socialist Party elected by the electoral circle of Coimbra will present on the vote of draft resolution 86 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u290	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 32 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the recognition of the social, economic and cultural value of the urban nuclei of the Ria Formosa barrier islands and by the end of the demolition of dwellings on those islands ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 50 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recognition of the economic and cultural value of the existing population nuclei on the barrier and island islands of Ria Formosa and on the Ancão peninsula and the suspension of the demolition of dwellings (BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 74 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the Esponnde bar ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 152 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around the requalification and valuation of Ria Formosa ( PS ). With regard to this draft resolution, the Left Block requested that point 4 be voted on separately and the remaining points together. Let us start by voting on the remaining points, i.e. points 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on the drafts of lein. 59 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Revokes the teaching retraining scheme ( PCP ) and 70 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the requalification of teachers ( BE). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The following is the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein. 53 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for access to invalidity and old age pensions by workers of the National Uranio Company, SA, providing for the right to death or sickness compensation ( CFP ), 56 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends access to invalidity and old-age pensions for workers of the National Uranio Company and reserves the right to an emerging compensation for occupational disease or death ( BE) and 60 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amended by Decree-Law No 28 / 2005 of 10 February 2005 on the Legal Regime of Access to Invalidity and Speed Pensions by Workers of the National Uranio Company ( UNE ), SA, and establishes the right to compensation in case of occupational disease or death ( The Greens ). If there is no objection, we shall vote on this replacement text in general, in speciality and in a global final vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[PSP, BE (Standard), PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PSD Members applauded.]] [[Public applause from the galleries.]] The public present in the galleries cannot manifest themselves, even being satisfied. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now give the floor to Mr Secretary to read out two opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be voted upon after their reading. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u291	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request by the Central Funchal Court Criminal Instruction Section of Madeira County, Investigation Process No 2090 / 13.7 TAFUN, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Pereira ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u292	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u293	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Criminal Instruction Section of the Central Court of Funchal of the County of Madeira, Investigation Process No 852 / 08.6 TAFUN, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Pereira ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u294	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still some file to read, but I would like to remind you from now on that the polls will be open for another 10 minutes, after the vote has been finished, for the elections held in Sala D. Maria, namely for the Higher Council on Internal Security, the Committee on Equality and Against Racial Discrimination and the Higher Council on Information. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u295	Mr. President and Mr. Members, just to inform that the Left Block has withdrawn its draft resolution No 102 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Publication of an order regulating the certification of advanced skills in information and communication technologies ( ICT ) in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-12.u296	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will take place on 22 February at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the general debate on the proposals for lein 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2016, 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016, and 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2016 - 2019. I thank everyone for their active participation in this work and wish you a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 16 minutes.]]
