ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. I give the floor to Mrs Secretary, Mrs Emilia Santos, to proceed with the reading of the dossier. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 137 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens the rights of workers ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we will generally resume the debate on lein. 11 / XIII proposals ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2016, 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016 and 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2016 - 2019. Mr Mário Centeno has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic plays a crucial role in assessing government action, especially with regard to public finances and the budgetary process, but also participates in an effort to clarify citizens and citizens on the State budget for 2016. One of the issues most appreciated by this Budget is precisely the intense debate to which it has been subjected. Portugal lives one of the most relevant moments in its recent history, and I repeat, everyone, we must be aware of our responsibilities. Portugal lives a crucial moment in two dimensions. In the national dimension, we are creating an alternative. An alternative that must be reaffirmed every day by political action in Parliament, but—and that is what brings us here today—by government action in respect of the commitments made with the Portuguese. It is our duty to meet this challenge and to be able, gradually, rigorously and sustainably, to build this alternative from the policies that we propose, with greater social justice, with greater fiscal equity, but also with a reformist attitude that puts an end to the accumulation of imbalances that have suffered in recent years. The second dimension is European and international. Portugal is part of an economic and monetary area where all possibilities for growth and social development must be exploited, not only by each of its citizens and each of its citizens individually, but by the country as a community. Active participation in the European dimension is of particular relevance at a time when important issues are being discussed, such as deepening banking union, strengthening the budgetary policy of economic union, responding to the refugee crisis or European labour and people mobility policy. In both dimensions, the behaviour of this government is characterized by open and transparent dialogue with Portuguese. It is in the path of this lasting and constructive debate that we also base our dialogue with the European Commission. We will not take as permanent measures that we present as temporary in Portugal; we will not take budgetary objectives supported in financial operations that have not been completed; we will not negotiate the postponement of these operations at the back of the Portuguese, sacrificing their taxes, for purely opportunistic electoral purposes;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... we will not abdicate to defend the Portuguese interests in a Europe that we want more cohesion and solidarity and not a divided and selfish Europe. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the taxes paid by the Portuguese are more important than any mere electoral game that does not pray or will ever pray for history. Important are public investment in education and health or social benefits, the only instruments of social protection and combating poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today we are focused on the essential objectives of the State budget: economic growth in a more just society. I would therefore like to present the general lines of the State budget and contribute to the better understanding of all Portuguese and Portuguese. This is the internal dimension, of an alternative, which I mentioned at the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what does the Government want with the State Budget for 2016? It is intended to start balanced and rigorous budgetary management, with the reduction in the weight of taxes and the recovery of income from families and businesses. Let me convey some key ideas from this budget. The direct tax revenue falls EUR 390 million, reducing families in particular. Thus, taxes on labour income will decrease, which is compatible with the growth of employment and wages. To better explain, in practice, this relief for families and businesses occurs with a growth of 3, 6 % of available income and 3, 9 % of nominal GDP. Thus, the revenue weight of IRS and IRC will decrease. Mrs. Members, the weight of taxes will decrease 0, 2 percentage points of GDP. This is a fundamental feature of what we have described as turning from the page of austerity. This policy change is made by making clear choices. Instead of the illusion sold to Brussels by a temporary court in the wages of public servants with permanent effects — a real austerity miracle — this government makes a clear choice. The choice goes through the incentive to greater productivity in the State, achieved through simplification of procedures, more efficiency in the use of resources and more dignity in the exercise of public functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Workers, both in the public sector and in the private sector, are the most important productive factor. We don't promote division among Portuguese. The problem of productivity is not about demotivating wage cuts. The phased replacement of wage cuts and the increase of the minimum wage in a concerted manner are economically efficient policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have also chosen not to increase the rates of IRC, IRS and VAT – we have ensured fiscal stability. In addition to reducing the weight of taxes, there is a virtuous tax recomposition, a friend of growth. This idea is key! Virtuosa, because there are fewer direct taxes on the productive factors and more indirect taxes on the decisions to consume and import. The increase in indirect tax revenue—increases 6, 6 %—is achieved only by the increase in special tax revenue, to which important extra-tax purposes are associated. of these, I highlight the disincentive to the indebtedness of families, the balance of external accounts and the concern with energy efficiency. These taxes — tobacco, vehicles, alcohol — are subject to a basic update of 3 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us remember that in the 2015 Stability Programme, the previous Government has designed a 7,2 % increase in VAT revenue. in this budget, VAT follows the growth of nominal private consumption, i.e. 3, 6 %. It seems now clear who is going to make one, plus one, huge increase in taxes in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Or would it be just more of an adventure of expansionist austerity? Oh, my God! Turning the page of austerity does not mean governing without rigor and without requirement, outside a framework of restrictions, it means, on the contrary, having the exact notion of the problems faced by the country and its causes, but having the courage and determination to make choices to solve them. I transmit to you two more key ideas of this Budget: the introduction of a safeguard clause in the IMI is made at the same time as the exemption from IMI for real estate funds is eliminated;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the family quotient of the former Government is replaced by a fixed deduction per child, regardless of the income of the family aggregate, which benefits a greater number of families. These choices show that fiscal policy is not a blind instrument for obtaining tax revenue. The State must at every moment analyse what the economy transmits and adjusts its policy in order to enhance economic growth and social justice. We discuss the option of deduction for each child. We have made a commitment that the new deduction would not create more tax expenditure, but would not decrease it either. Thus, we are in a position to propose that the tax expenditure of the family quotient should be replaced by a deduction for each child, of a value equal to €600, increasing also the deductions by ascending and underpaid. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It replaces a regime that did not benefit families with children and with lower incomes by a system that is more fair and more advantageous for the vast majority of family aggregates with dependents. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having conveyed some of the key ideas of the State budget, which illustrate the choices we have made, let me develop in a little more detail the way this budget was prepared and the final objectives proposed. Let us remember the starting point of this State budget. The former Government had set a target of 2, 7 % for the 2015 deficit. Today we know that the deficit will be close to three, one percent. In fact, the Banif resolution will catapult the 2015 deficit to 4, 3 % of GDP. The former government also increased the structural deficit in 2015 by 0.6 percentage points of GDP. Public debt reached almost 130 % of GDP. [[PSD protests.]] The actions and omissions of the previous Government will make Portugal unable to exit the excessive deficit procedure in 2015, not only because of the face of the nominal deficit, but because of the huge increase in the structural balance that occurred in the previous year. In other words, the former Government failed all the budgetary targets it proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u5	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u6	The figures I quote are objective and do not leave room for doubts about the lack of authority of the previous majority to speak in certain accounts, tax increases or structural adjustment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At the clean exit, the so-called « small », a tax burden was added, since the alleged return of the overtax, served for election purposes, to the anticipation of tax revenues, to make it believe that the deficit was in line with the objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u8	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are several challenges Portugal faces. We need to correct imbalances, relaunch growth and get back to work. It is up to the government, in part through budgetary policy, to ensure the conditions for these objectives to be achieved. We have heard and read opinions, even contradictory, about this Budget. Since the idea that we are facing an increase in taxes, passing the idea that you are spending,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u9	It's both!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u10	... it is said until what this Budget « gives with one hand, take away with the other». It is true that in the previous governments it was only taken away, but it is not a reason for so much verbal lack of control. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] It is now that even BANIF would profit and even the « colossal » tax increase was presented as temporary as the irrevocable decisions of the previous government. Thus, it is difficult for some international institution to take them seriously. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u11	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u12	For our part, we prefer to reaffirm that we intend to keep our accounts balanced and combat the inequalities of the country. Let us return to budgetary policy. We focus on the objectives of the Budget, explaining how the key ideas set out at the beginning will compete to achieve our objectives. In 2016, the deficit we set as a target will be 2, 2 % of GDP and public debt will fall to 127, 7 % of GDP. No financial juggles! Let us be clear: as I said earlier, the weight of taxes will decrease 0, 2 percentage points in GDP. The direct tax revenue will fall by 2 % and we expect an increase of 6, 6 % in indirect tax revenue. Given that the economy will grow at a higher rate than the whole tax revenue, the weight of taxes in the economy will decrease. The choice for a greater approach to indirect taxes is deliberate. As economic practice shows, indirect taxes are more growth friends, as I said, and promote positive externalities. For example, we chose to discourage the use of excessive credit. In 2015, the Portuguese saving rate was 4, 8 %—it was where the adjustment program brought us! This value is very low. It is also another justification for promoting the recovery of workers' income. This budget also aims to discourage imports to, together with the support of the export sector, maintain our balance of trade. The increase in the tax on petroleum products is inserted in this logic, placing the tax burden ( VAT plus ISP ) at a level similar to that of the beginning of 2015 and prices only last December. The economic impact of this measure, taken in this sense of fiscal neutrality, will be minimised for transport undertakings. The same is true for agriculture and fisheries, which will not only have a smaller increase, as the revenues of this increase will be reinvested in the sector through investment support. in this budget, measures are also proposed to facilitate the relationship of people and companies with tax administration. This is the case, in particular, of the extension of the situations in which tax debts may be paid in benefits, without the requirement of personal guarantee, facilitating the fulfilment of tax obligations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These measures are proof that the Government supports increasing the competitiveness of our companies. [[PSD protests.]] Austerity comes at the beginning of its end when we choose, as is our constitutional duty, to promote the recovery of workers' income from the public sector and the private sector. [[PSD protests.]] I also recall that many measures aimed at this objective are not included in this Budget because they have already been legislated in this House, as is the case with the partial elimination of the overtax of the IRS. The Government, supported by the parliamentary majority that supports it, defended the legality and expectations of all Portuguese, private sector and public sector,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...without distinction, advancing with your return. We assume, in fact, the clear choice to return first to the workers who receive less. We have also chosen to promote the increase in the minimum wage, a measure with special impact on private sector workers. This measure, I recall, was taken into account by the vast majority of the social partners. They will not see this government promoting the competitiveness of the country's economy for the devaluation of wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are facing a responsible budget, which fulfils the commitments made in the Government Programme and in agreements concluded with various political forces, as well as the country's international commitments. I should like to highlight some of our choices now. As the fiscal policy has shown, this is a budget that aims to strengthen social cohesion. This increases social protection through the replacement of social minimums — social income of inclusion, solidarity supplement for the elderly and family allowance — and the updating of pension pensions. It also reduces the overall value of moderate rates by introducing a new rationality in its definition, favoring the use of health centres and health support lines. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another option of the Government is to promote the capitalisation of companies. A summit role must be given to the conditions of financing, both public and private, of the Portuguese economy. We intend to support their competitiveness and strengthen their capital structures. This will go through the launch of financial instruments, using European funds, at an expected leverage in the economy of EUR 1500 million. We assume, without complexes, the desire to put the State back in the service of Portuguese and business. We do not align ourselves with the strategy for the destruction of State services, which is a spending policy. The government will again dignify public service by promoting administrative modernisation and simplification, which will save resources, strengthen users' confidence in public service and reduce context costs for businesses, favouring the country's competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also took on the plan to leave the excessive deficit procedure at the end of 2016. The State budget will have a deficit of less than 3 % and will also move towards a reduction in the structural deficit, finally fulfilling our European commitments. These are some of the priorities, the main options of the Government. I remember that these options are part of a very broad set of actions of all ministries. All of them participated actively in the preparation of this State budget and its work, in particular in the control of State expenditure, will be made in a particularly articulated and cohesive manner. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, let me strengthen some points. This budget promotes economic and social stability, in particular in a framework of stability in direct taxation on families and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget generates trust and stability, an essential factor for families, businesses and investors, national or foreign. The end of austerity should not be confused with a lack of rigor or lack of knowledge of restrictions. We do not want, like the previous Government, to present eight budgets in four years and yet continue to fail the targets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u13	In six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u14	This budget is responsible and rigorous. The responsibility of all those involved in this process implies recognition of this rigour: those who have drawn up this budget proposal, those who will discuss it and those who will execute it. Responsibility and rigour — this is what Portuguese and Portuguese deserve! And that is what they can expect of us, as well as the return of hope and dialogue to a more just country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u15	The Bureau recorded the registration of 12 Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification to Mr. Minister for Finance, who informed you that he wishes to respond in blocks of four requests. Mr Leitão Amaro of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister Mário Centeno, I understand your difficulty in dealing with this budget in crisis of identity, because, as I said, this budget has been everything and its opposite. It's true! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u17	But the responsibility lies with the one who did it — yours! — or, rather, who did it. This is the fifth version of Budget, with the sixth already in pregnancy announced. But, Minister, more than your high rate of budgetary fertility,... [[Laughing.]] ...the problem is that your five Budgets have changed to each version and less and less you realize what they want and where they go. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The budget has already been expansive, now it is recessive. Before, the PS promised to return income without raising taxes, but they're here! Public expenditure is exploding. And who pays? The Portuguese, with more taxes! After all, the only page that they turned was that of your « fairy tale», from which they painfully woke up to reality. In your own texts, of the Government, the tax burden has already fallen, it has already remained, has risen, always twisting Excel according to advertising needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u19	But what the Portuguese know is that, in 2016, with their Budget, they will pay more taxes, much more! It is EUR 2000 million of taxes and extra contributions! By the way, it was time for the Portuguese to know what they could actually count on. Will it be today, Minister, that you will tell us what these additional measures you have promised Brussels, that it hides the Portuguese and that it denies Parliament? Oh, my God! Is it today, Minister? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, for those who wanted to turn the page, this budget brings more austerity and worse austerity. It is the assessment of UTAO, Minister, page 52 : austerity is greater than 621 million. The government's measures are more austerity than 2,000 million against the 1400 million they return. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Left austerity is greater, but it is also worse. It is worse, because instead of cutting the expenditure, especially the expenditure, as we have done, it bears on the revenue: more than EUR 2000 million of taxes that the Portuguese will have to pay. For what? Especially to compensate for the explosion at primary current expenditure. with you more EUR 1800 million of primary current expenditure! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] But it is also unfair, because it charges indirect taxes that are more regressive. Mr. Minister, when the Portuguese go to the gas pump, they remember you paying more 7, 2 cents for the fuels, they get them 600 € or 6000 €! [[PS protests.]] Everyone pays the same, but the one who suffers the most is the one who has the least! With this austerity, the unemployed who pay this tax get worse and see the job slow down. It is worse than 1 million pensioners with minimum pensions, to whom your Government has decided to reduce the increase that we have given and that we have proposed again. [[Rice from PS and BE Members.]] Families with children are worse, those who are not civil servants who receive more than 1500 € and are worse than 50 % of low-income Portuguese people, who no longer paid IRS, but will have to pay that big tax increase. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] Mr Minister, your austerity does not diminish, it does increase. They're redistributing, but for worse! After all, it means getting everyone to accelerate more a concentrated return in some groups, the highest incomes. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] This budget is bad for the middle class, but, Minister, it is also bad for businesses and jobs. It harms almost all companies, especially exporters, to benefit from two sectors of the non-marketable economy: Public Administration and Restoration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u20	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u21	It's a wrong choice, it's a 2009 repetition, from whom it seems you didn't learn the lesson!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u23	Minister, your government is punishing companies when it breaks the reform of the IRC, signed by you. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u24	We must, therefore, raise fiscal instability by moving away from investment, but now, Mr Minister, by penalizing, by disincenting what they said was your priority: the capitalisation of companies, by disincenting self-financing. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] They penalise companies when they carry them with the increase in fuel. And, Mr Minister, this fallacy of yours, we will call it the tax benefit, after all, does not cover even half of Portuguese companies. [[PSD applause.]] And even those who benefit are more than one year paying this additional tax and then receiving reimbursement — stop! — just over half. Mr. Minister, they penalise exporting companies. The former Professor Mário Centeno said, until one year ago, « they worsen competitiveness when they change wages above productivity ». All of this adds reversals, threats to investors, threats to independent institutions and the verbal incontinence of their « state secretary of fiscal uncertainty ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u26	That's a joke.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u27	Mrs. Government members seem to want to make Portugal the far west for investment. And what was the result? [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] I do not need to go even to the general criticisms of the entrepreneurs, the results of the government, those of your report, which say: « This will be disappointing! » These are the words of the government, its numbers : employment in 2016 slows down, unemployment decreases, exports weaken and even consumption slows down. What about credibility, Minister? How is credibility? That doesn't stick with your behavior in the last two months. They present an erratic budget, which is still subject to risks of non-compliance, reversals, threats to investors, fiscal instability that the government is fueling or — new — the return, by the Government majority initiative, of debt restructuring.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u29	Mr Minister, when the risks of the international situation get worse, our partners are in difficulty, credibility becomes even more important. But what does your government do? Instead of protecting the Portuguese and the country, it exposes us to more risks.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u30	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u31	This is not the budget that the country needs, but it is also not the government that the country deserves. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u32	Mr João Paulo Correia, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, the budget debate has revealed a depressive PSD with enormous difficulty in dealing with reality. And the symptoms are obvious! On the one hand, there is a feeling of guilt for having betrayed social-democracy, replacing it with neoliberalism during the last rule. There is a similar feeling of guilt, because this Budget proves that there was a credible alternative to austerity policy imposed by the dual Steps Rabbit / Paulo Portas. On the other hand, there is constant irritation in PSD discourses, which is also perceived because all bets have failed. They bet this Budget would divide the left and they failed! They bet that this budget was not going through Brussels and they failed! They bet that this budget was not going through the Eurogroup and they failed! They bet on rating agencies and failed! [[P.S.'s applause.]] For all these failures one perceives the depressive state in which the PSD is located. Mr. Minister, PSD and CDS have opted for a brutal increase in taxes on family income, the cut-off of pensions and the blind cut-off in social benefits. They cut the family allowance, cut the social income of insertion, cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly, reaching 228 000 elderly. PSD and CDS launched an ideological attack on the available income of families. Unemployment reached historic peaks, net job creation was negative, poverty fired and public debt rose to EUR 36 billion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Most Portuguese lost hope and so more than 500 000 Portuguese emigrated to various parts of Europe and the world, many of them following the advice of members of the previous government, starting with the former Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho himself, who in 2011 advised emigration to unemployed teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u34	It's true! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u35	The absence of stimuli, the heavy tax burden and the loss of family income contributed to emigration and to the reduction of potential GDP. Today's potential GDP is lower than the potential GDP at the beginning of the previous government. This represents a highly negative heritage of austerity policy. The State Budget for 2016 is also why it turns from the austerity page. This budget returns hope to the victims of austerity and therefore it is essential that qualified young people remain in our country and that others may return. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u36	This is the longing of thousands of Portuguese, thousands of families, who turn to this Budget as a beacon of hope for their lives. The recovery of income, the strengthening of social protection and the creation of employment are, of course, the leading measures to combat the phenomenon of emigration of the active population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this Budget also brings back the increase in investment in education, science and innovation. So, Minister, I put the following question to you: after the cycle of despair, is it fair and legitimate to look at this budget with confidence and hope, particularly in the fight against the scourge of emigration, in order to strengthen our economy and increase potential GDP? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u37	To request clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u38	Mr President, Minister for Finance, I would like to tell you briefly about risk and stability. We have heard several times, during this debate, the right to say that this budget places Portugal on the radar. It is fair to say that the right itself has made a great effort to make this happen. The PSD, in particular, has not yet lost a single chance to accuse this proposal of being the cause of instability in financial markets, the cause of political instability in Europe, the cause of instability of external investors, in short, the cause of the evils of the world. Because of lack of courage or perhaps the shame of bringing here your alternative, PSD and CDS have opted in this budget debate for a fear strategy, for a confusing strategy. It is noteworthy here, in particular, in particular, the position of the PSD. No proposals, no debate, no game,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u39	Isn't the debate coming? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u40	... Announce your vote against... [[PSD protests.]] ... and, although noisy, he's still sitting on a bench waiting for an arbitrator called the European Commission to stop the game and to return to the right the direct one she thinks is natural.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u41	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u42	The right thinks you have the natural right to rule... [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] ...and he's just waiting for Brussels to return this natural right to rule. But it's good to say, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be wrong, because if you sit in wait, the most likely - and that is what we expect - is that this budget is going well and that people receive income and realize that their life is better.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u43	It's good that it's going well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u44	And the strategy can be very bad to the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, they're just sitting there waiting for everything to go wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u45	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u46	We have another reading, Minister : we believe that the budget is not a risk to the financial markets, but the financial markets are a risk to Portugal and to the implementation of this budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u48	We believe that the Budget is not a risk to Brussels, but that Brussels is a risk to the Budget and is a risk to Portugal. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u49	In the negotiations with Brussels, the Minister defended, and we follow him, that the macroeconomic scenario, i.e. consumption, investment, economic growth, is not independent of the budgetary policy that each country adopts. The PSD comes here, and the CDS also, in its policy of confusion and fear, anticipates such plan b of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u50	And what is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u51	I'd say it's more a wish than a forecast. It's desire, it's part of the strategy of sitting waiting for power to fall into his lap. But, knowing that all budgets have a risk, I want to say clearly that there is no plan b. Who has committed himself to a strategy against poverty and economic growth has only one option, which is to deepen the plan to : fiscal equity and return of income.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u53	Mr Minister, I hope you will follow me, and I know that in my statement: whoever is committed to an alternative for the country has no plan b, has to deepen the plan to — fiscal equity and return of income. I think that is our commitment. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u54	In order to make the last request for clarification in this first round, Mrs Cecília Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u55	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, I have listened carefully to you not to say a presentation of your Budget, because you have mentioned, above all, what is not your responsibility and what belongs to the past. It's an option. It is not a technical option, it is a political option, above all, but it is in any case its option and it will say something in the future, I believe, about its credibility and the signs that we have already begun to feel. There is a first question I wanted to ask you because I noticed some differences in your speech. The first difference has to do with a decree. Because he reminded me of this, I was picking up a news story recently from November 2015, in which Mr. Minister said: « Austerity in Portugal has come to an end. And the newspapers reported: «One hundred decrees the end of austerity». However, in this presentation that he made us, I noticed that it was no longer the end of austerity, it was a nuance, it was the beginning of the end of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u57	I only hope, Mr Minister, that austerity does not go back to the beginning with these policies, because that is indeed the risk. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And it is not worth saying that anyone who talks about risks and dangers wants to scare people or they want to materialize. On the contrary, anyone who wants to avoid the consequences is precisely those who want to avoid the causes.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u59	When we repeat the same causes, we risk having the same consequences. Secondly, we have discussed a lot about the tax and tax burden and, from the point of view of taxes, there are indeed several rhetorical tricks in this budget. I will not do to you the evil that Mr Trigo Pereira has done in the Committee on Budgets and Finance and to tell you about the tax and tax burden and what it weighs on GDP or not is resting.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u61	Mr Minister, I will simply tell you this: by making an account that is basic, it is true, by comparing the 2015 tax revenue, 45 498 million, and 2016, 46 836 million, we have more than 1338 million euros only in relation to the tax revenue, because I haven't yet been to the contribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u62	Last year, they had more than 2000.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u63	And the Minister says to me: "But you have to see the percentage of this in GDP. And I say to him: « Mr. Minister, the percentage of GDP varies depending on the value of GDP and, as their GDP forecasts vary every week, it is enough that the forecast of GDP will drop so that the tax burden on GDP will rise, of course! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u64	Tax revenue also depends on GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u65	And more: when we talk about tax and tax burden, I mean the second trick. It is said that taxes on labour income have fallen and there is also a new, I would say, doctrinal classification. He had heard of differences between direct and indirect taxes, between income taxes, consumption and property taxes. Now, by the way, there are taxes that are about income from work and there are other taxes that are about income you know why. [[PCP protests.]] So, apparently, indirect taxes and consumer taxes are not paid with labour income. People when, for example, they're going to put gas on it don't pay for work income! [[PCP protests.]] When the goods are transported to the supermarkets and will get more expensive because this transport is more expensive, this apparently is not bought with incomes from work, it is with incomes from something else! I know you do well, Minister, because this seems kind of a thing to say: we're going to increase taxes, but it's not about the incomes of work! Mr Minister, taxes are direct and indirect precisely because they both tax labour income, some do - directly, others do - indirectly. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Do you know what the difference is? In the case of direct taxes, who has more, who receives more and who has less, who receives less — which, in fact, in the case of the IRS, as you well know, but in another trick he also hides, is more than half of the population — he pays less or doesn't pay anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u66	Now! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u67	In the case of indirect taxes, those who have less pay the same and pay proportionately more than those who have more and those who receive more. That's why they're more unjust. It is extraordinary that it is left in this Parliament, which is called the palate of social justice, which makes those who have less to pay more and make a greater effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u69	Perhaps that would say a lot, indeed, of what is the idea of social justice! [[PCP protests.]] I also ask a third question that has to do with the famous, I believe, seal tax on financial transactions, the famous « multibank rate ». Mr Minister, we understand: if the banks are paying this fee, I don't think we have a problem. I think it's unlikely that this will happen. I think who's gonna end up paying this fee or this seal tax is the small merchants...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u70	The best thing is to tax the banks!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u71	...and indirectly consumers. Yeah, I'm worried about that. Therefore, the very concrete question is: Mr Minister, we are going to have commercial establishments in Portugal, small commercial establishments, such family establishments — because I believe that it is not just the restoration that has family businesses, there are many small commercial establishments that are also familiar — with papers and notices to say 'Here is not accepted multibank' or 'Here only multibanks are accepted from a given value'? Finally, and because much has already been said about plan b...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u72	Crap!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u73	Be well educated!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u74	I do not want to get into what are the institutional agreements in the coalition that the government supports. This concerns me only in the sense that it has consequences for Portugal. But I confess that I am a little confused, because yesterday at a question from the CDS on the famous plan b, Mr. Prime Minister said, and I quote—at the time, there may be a little mistake here, but I believe it will be completely faithful: 'European entities have invited Portugal to go and prepare a set of measures to be implemented, if necessary'. This can call plan b, plan c, it can call a set of measures. I will do you the will, I will not call plan b, I will call the set of measures. Mr. Prime Minister even weaved several metaphors that had to do with going from Lisbon to the Port and careful to want to have a coffee and if, by chance, if you delay, you can get to the hour... Now, I hear Mrs Mariana Mortágua say that there is no plan b and that the government must say that there is no plan b. Therefore, Mrs Mariana Mortágua is certain that there is no plan b. I'd like you to clarify. After all, Mr Minister, who is saying what actually exists: is Mr. Prime Minister, who says that there is a set of measures to be prepared, or is Mrs. Mariana Mortágua? Which one of them is telling the truth? And more: now, if there is a set of measures — because I believe that it is basically Mr. Prime Minister who is telling us the truth — tell us, Minister, if we can get to know them. I think it is important that we know that they are being prepared and that they can be applied, if necessary, if there is such a possibility of coffee or steaming tire, such metaphors of going from Lisbon to Porto. When you go from Lisbon to Porto and if you want to think about alternatives, I would suggest, for example, consult train schedules, which are public and available. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] I'd like to know if this plan b is also public and if it's available and please meet you. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u75	In response to this set of requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u76	Mr President, Mr Leitão Amaro, tried to generate a public soundbite when he entertained us with the « take there, give here ». by the way, the « take there, give here» does not serve him and therefore went to his own speech and found another soundbit, which is the « everything and its opposite». 'Everything and its opposite' is like the honourable Members. Members have classified this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Surely, because they haven't understood yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u77	We have some difficulty!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u78	Because the origin of the 'takes there, gives here' and the bipolarism of the 'all and its opposite' are not very different, it is not to understand what the genesis, origin and objective of a State budget is. But we can try to make an effort to get there. Hide things from Brussels? Hide things from the Portuguese? After the exercise, which has been done, of escapism and attempts to hide things by the previous government, it is extraordinary that Mr has come to say that there is something hidden in this Budget. There is nothing strictly hidden in this budget, Mr President! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u79	You know that art well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u80	It has already been said several times what is the relationship between tax revenues and economic activity. It has been said many times—and in my speech I have said this again—that there are no changes in VAT rates, except the reduction in the VAT of restoration, there are no changes in the rate of IRS, there are no changes in the rate of IRC. This budget does not increase direct taxes and does not increase most indirect tax revenue. This budget decreases the weight of tax revenue in GDP, this budget reduces the taxes to be paid by Portuguese businesses and families. In the form of direct taxes in 2016, compared to 2015, there are less than 390 million euros of taxes to be paid. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member may make all the accounts you want about the income available, but the fact is that in this State budget the income available increases by 3 %. This is the image that this State Budget brings to us. It increases the income available because it also increases social minimums and restores levels of social benefits, compared to a few years in this part. This is true in the main social benefits, in those who suffered most with the adjustment program. I'm talking about the social income of insertion, the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the family allowance. The minimum wage increases in consultation with the social partners, which is also an incentive for the replacement of income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The issue of bipolarism is not just about soundbits. It is necessary, Mr President, that we understand whether this budget is optimistic or whether it is realistic, whether this budget is austere or if it is spending. It is not worth continuing to launch this type of analysis for the Portuguese, because it is not true, because it does not correspond to the exercise that has been done with the State budget. This State budget is not immune to the evolution of the international economy. You are right, Mr President, and I follow you very well. You know that the updates you are talking about, which have taken place during the negotiation process, have been very carefully accompanied, because it is with great attention that the government is following these developments — those that are the signs that concern us, coming from the international economy. And, therefore, we have reflected, contrary to what happened in other years, this evolution in our forecasts. Mr President, it is not worth recalling the shocks of confidence that were introduced in the 2012 and 2013 Budgets and which led to the famous letter of Minister Gaspar that, lost with what was happening with the evolution of the economy, thought to be better shared with all Portuguese and revealed his failure in those forecasts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Paulo Correia, emigration is a very relevant economic and social phenomenon. For a long time we have heard that the former Government has hidden as a virtuous phenomenon that would not bring any consequences to the Portuguese economy. The truth is, he's bringing it in. The truth is that emigration causes a structural problem in the Portuguese economy, if it is not a cyclical phenomenon. From this point of view, the great challenge Portugal has is to reverse the tendency to reduce the active population, which occurs because of emigration and, in particular, because of emigration in the younger population, in the age group from 20 to 35 years, which Portugal lost in only four years, 250 000 Portuguese. It is necessary to reverse this trend and this trend is reversed with more confidence, more income and more investment. Investment also in education — this is also a mark of this budget, in addition to being a change in education policies, so that they are more socially fair and also more economically effective.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u82	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, it is true that what the government has done is to set a line in its policy and I think that this is very clear in the budget proposal that we are going to vote today: fiscal equity and returns. That is exactly the line that the Government will follow, that is exactly the line that the Government will maintain, when it has to adopt measures affecting the budget. Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, you have heard my speech badly.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u83	Do you hear me? Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u84	He heard it wrong and heard it selectively. But I can even understand why you heard selectively. Because, obviously, you hear better what I say when I talk about the past than when I talk about the present and the future. And I assure you, Madam Member, that the future is the future of this State Budget! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As a great Portuguese author would say, today is the first day of the rest of our lives. This is the Budget which returns to the Portuguese this hope and dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards the technical issue, so many times already mentioned, of the endogenous nature between tax revenues and economic activity, I am not surprised that they are repeatedly insisting on this matter, because it reveals that in the last four years they have in fact not realized that economic activity and tax revenues are interconnected. It is clear, Mrs Deputies, that is why tax revenue rises and that is why, when economic activity slows down, tax revenues also slow down. It is normal for a State budget to have one thing accompanied by the other. That is exactly what we did in all the exercises that we presented to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u85	It was the opposite of what you guys did!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u86	That's exactly what disturbs you. That's why he's serious and that's why he's confident. With regard to the questions that have been put to us, also at technical level, on direct taxes and indirect taxes, Mrs Deputy, let us see: direct taxes affect the decisions of Portuguese, business and workers on their use of productive factors. Indirect taxes directly affect decisions on the production of companies and workers. Indirect taxes affect choices and these choices are often used in economics and also in budgetary policy, as I said, with an effect that goes beyond the fiscal effect. These are debt issues, external deficit issues and energy efficiency issues. These issues concern the government and are considered when we make these decisions. On the question of plan b, if you read the Eurogroup document correctly — and Mr Leitão Amaro will be able to revisit it again — it is written that the European Commission's negotiations with the Portuguese Government have been fruitful and very constructive. What is written there is that the Portuguese Government has to prepare measures for when necessary. It is not said that these measures must be announced, it is not said that these measures must be carried out,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u87	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u88	... go in the same line as we have just mentioned: fiscal equity and returns of income on an perspective in which there will be no cuts in wages, there will be no cuts in pensions, no increases in direct taxes on pensions and wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u89	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second round of requests for clarification. First of all, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u90	Mr President, Minister for Finance, the PSD and the CDS make this debate as if it had not passed, as if they had not crushed the workers with taxes that are now eliminated, as if they had not misled the Portuguese with the return of an overtax that must be eliminated with this Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u92	Because the truth is this: unlike the last five budgets proposed by the PSD and the CDS and approved by them, this budget incorporates fiscal measures that are positive for workers and families. For example, in addition to the overtax, I refer to the replacement of the family quotient by a fixed return and the protection of families from sudden increases in IMI. Mr Minister, the proposal from the CFP to reduce the maximum rate of the IMI is already known, but in our perspective it is still necessary and possible to discuss in the specialty other measures for the tax relief of workers, but also measures that introduce more fiscal justice, ensuring that the richest among the richest are paying the taxes due, particularly considering the increase in the additional rate of IRS for higher incomes. With regard to companies, the Budget is moving forward with measures such as the reduction of VAT on restoration, and in other words with the aim of exempting IMI from real estate funds, increasing the contribution of the banking sector and limiting some instruments used by large companies and economic groups not to pay the taxes due at the head of IRC. Mr Minister, we would like to know what the Government is looking at as regards the inclusion in the speciality of measures to support and stimulate taxation for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Another question I want to ask you has to do with public debt. The renegotiation of debt in terms of time, interest and amounts is a national imperative, as the CFP warned and proposed in April 2011. The PSD and CDS have used the reduction of public debt as a pretext to impose a policy of exploitation and impoverishment, but the truth is that debt has not decreased; on the contrary, it has increased as never before, more than EUR 50 billion in the past four years. Interests also increased sharply, reaching almost EUR 8500 million per year, 10 % of the total expenditure in the State budget. This is more than the country spends on the National Health Service and is more than twice the public investment. We note as positive the outlook set out in the State budget, even slightly, of public debt as a percentage of GDP, as we note as positive the intention of the Government to reprogram early payments, allowing to save some tens of millions of euros in interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u93	It was from the former government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u94	However, Mr Minister, the record of these positive aspects cannot be mistaken that debt interest continues to increase, nor can it be mistaken that, according to the Government's own forecasts, public debt will decline very slowly over the years only reaching 60 % of GDP — the value required by the European Union — in the long term of 2055. Minister, Portuguese cannot continue to bear the unsustainable burden of public debt for more than 40 years. Portugal has lost a lot because, over the past almost five years, it has not taken the initiative to renegotiate debt, but it can lose much more if it continues to bleed national resources. We know that the government does not have the CFP's perspective on the renegotiation of public debt, but, Minister, the debt problem cannot be pushed down the carpet. We cannot realise that this problem does not exist. from the PCP, we will intervene so that the Assembly of the Republic will discuss debt renegotiation again and present our proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u95	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens' has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, since he presented the general lines of the State budget for 2016, did not lack consideration and the agitation of ghosts by some sectors, particularly the PSD and the CDS, with fear of Europe and the reaction of markets. Then came the discussion of the structural deficit. But we know that what was involved in this whole discussion did not have to do with the credibility of the State budget for 2016, but with the credibility of the structural adjustment of the previous government, which presented Brussels, as structural, measures that were provisional, exceptional and temporary. In other words, the previous Government submitted transitional measures for structural purposes to Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u97	What a mess he's going there!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u98	So two, one, because here I do not think there is a third way: either the previous government lied to the Portuguese or lied to the European Commission because the measures and cuts were either transitional or not transitional. They couldn't be both at the same time. They could not be transitory and at the same time not transitory! Perhaps, that is why we realize why the PSD says today that this Budget is everything and its opposite. Because you've been training for four years and now you're coming with this conversation here! Don't be weird. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] Mr President, I have listened very carefully to you, but I have still had some doubts about some matters. The first question I have to ask you is: we have now come to know that the previous government used a trick or a play or even a magic pass, which consisted of anticipating a considerable volume of tax revenues in 2015. It must be around EUR 700 million, one part in IRC revenue and another part in IRS revenue which the previous government imposed on 2015 and which will certainly exacerbate the revenue of 2016. In other words, the previous government benefited from the 2015 accounts but not structurally. I think it would be important for Mr. Minister to tell us about the revenue implications for 2016 of this fiscal manoeuvre of the previous Government. On the risks of this budget, the prospects for economic growth provided for in the State budget are, of course, subject to a set of risks, such as, moreover, all budgets and all forecasts, and in the external context, global demand is an important risk. But one of the most relevant risks to the external context lies with possible less favourable developments in overall growth and external demand to the Portuguese economy. In addition, this is in addition to the risks of the external context, there are also risks in the internal context. I am referring, for example, to the sharp fall in investment in recent years — and I remember that public investment in recent years has been the lowest investment in the last two decades — and also in private investment there has been no development. Can this sharp fall in investment combined with the massive increase in long-term unemployment or not have any negative effects on the potential product? I would like, Mr Minister, to be able to talk to us about this. Finally, Mr Minister, on the Banif case. As we know and, indeed, the Minister for Finance mentioned in his initial speech, the Banif resolution caused the estimated impact of 1, 2 % of GDP, thus providing for the budget deficit for 2015 to reach 4, 3 % of GDP and therefore far from the goal to get out of the excessive deficit procedure. Mr Minister, and for 2016, will the Banif case continue to produce negative budgetary effects? Is it possible today to predict the scale of the impact of the Banif resolution and its process on the accounts of 2016? I would like you to talk to us about this, because I think it would be important for the Portuguese to have the idea of the move that the irresponsibility of the previous government will also create them in 2016 because, in fact, we are talking about BANIF and we are talking about a problem that the previous government has been hiding for a long time and pushing forward, using, in the bottom, the maximum of «who comes behind». [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u99	Mr Miguel Morgado of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u100	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Minister for Finance, I would like to express to you, in my speech, a double congratulations. The first congratulations are for having sought, in its own way, to contain the destructive, manicaust and intimidating rhetoric that the Prime Minister brought to the debate yesterday. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u101	A rhetoric that led him to the Prime Minister to confuse political restraint and radicalism in Parliament. And by doing so, inadvertently and unintentionally, he revealed what his true position is, because only a radical sees radicalism in moderation and moderation in radicalism. This is something the Prime Minister should know. But my main congratulations go to a great moment of clarity that you had last week, when you said that this Budget was everything and its opposite. I, when I heard this statement from him, reminded myself of Paul to the Corinthians, because Paul tells the Corinthians precisely this: «I have been all things to everyone». But he is justified by saying that this was the attempt to save some. But here, of course, we are not discussing the salvation of souls, we are discussing the governance of the country,... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u102	You will end up saying: Lord's word!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u103	...and in the governance of a country, when we have a State Budget, when we have a ruler, or two, or ten that are everything and its opposite to everyone, no one saves himself, everyone loses, everyone is ruined. But I say it was a moment of great clarity because it is an admirable synthesis of the radically incoherent and contradictory character of this Budget. It is the reflection of the absence of this government's direction and the complete absence of a national strategy. Otherwise, we would see the page of austerity. It was in the name of this page turn that everything that happened in the last three months was done. But it is now recognized that austerity will end only when that is possible. Well, thank you very much! Everyone already knew about it, except by the way, the government. There was this insistence on the need for expansionist budgets and now what we have is a restrictive, contraction budget. Perhaps this is the expansionist austerity which Mr. Prime Minister so much likes to invoke the wrong and the right. Perhaps this is finally the expansionist austerity they talked about.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u104	Today, the intervention is not going so well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u105	On the other hand, it has always been said — and we have heard this from the opposition, including the PS — that the creation of jobs we had in the past was not enough. So, what do we have now?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u106	You're not doing well!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u107	Job creation will be lower than in 2015 and half as in 2014. There too we have a serious contradiction. The need to stimulate consumption was proclaimed, but private consumption will slow down, growth will be lower than 2015. Diabolization of public investment was reported. And now what does this Budget do? Short on public investment. In 2015, public investment grew by 10 % and will now be cut by almost 6 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u108	You're going to vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u109	There has been a proliferation of outrages with attacks on public school and now we have cuts in basic and secondary education and social action school. And this at the same time as the transfers to private and cooperative education increase, after we have been here for a few weeks, listening from the entire left side of the attacks on private and cooperative education. [[PCP protests.]] The family quotient in the IRS has been diabolized and taxes are now increased for middle-class families, with children, whose holders earn more than €850 per month, at the same time that it is cut in investment in pre-school education. They complained that there was little stimulus to investment, but this budget penalises investment and production. The destruction of the national scientific system was created and this budget cuts into the money for the Foundation for Science and Technology. They went to hammer the country saying that there was no confidence, that it needed more confidence and, therefore, it would have to be in the PS to have more confidence, but now, after all this process and with all that is going on, the government itself became the main factor of discredit, mistrust and insecurity. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u110	Here we come to the true essence of this government's doctrine: to defend everything and its opposite with the same fervor and with the same verbal violence, pretending that we live in a world where everything and its opposite is compatible, in which everything and its opposite is conciliable. Everything and its opposite. But since reality obviously does not allow, then the government had to have a plan b, not that of the additional measures, this will be plan c. Plan b was to multiply the pretexts, invent conspiracies and, of course, attack the opposition. Yesterday, the whole country realized that Mr. Prime Minister has not yet realized that he is Prime Minister, he has not yet realized that he plays a position that has his own responsibilities and dignity. But, Minister of Finance, have you not yet realized that you are Minister of Finance? Has he not yet realized that this is a smoke curtain that quickly dissipates and that, when the immediate effect of this smoke curtain dissipates, what will be seen is the Minister of Finance with his Budget, what will be seen is a country unprotected in the hands of irresponsibility? The government has become the main factor of credibility and insecurity. This reminds us precisely the last socialist government, in which several ministers who are today sitting on the bench of the government. Also in this Government the Prime Minister was the main factor of insecurity and mistrust. And that government had a finance minister who, in his own way, with its limitations, to 25. The hour tried to contain the damage to the Prime Minister's conduct. And I, Mr Minister of Finance, hope well, we all hope that the day will not come when your last option, the last duty that remains is to assume itself as the Teixeira dos Santos do Prime Minister, António Costa. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u111	To conclude this second block of requests for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u112	Mr President, Minister, you have spoken, and well, that more dignity must be given in the exercise of public functions. Behind every social right of citizens — the right to health, the right to education, the right to social protection in unemployment, disease or poverty — there is a constitutional obligation of the State. This constitutional obligation of the State is called 'public service' and that is why workers in public functions have, in addition to a function, a mission and this mission is to provide public service. That is what the right punishes when it attacks workers in public service. This attack is not today, this attack is even prior to the times when the current President Cavaco Silva asked: "Public officials, how do we get rid of them? Reforming them does not solve, because they would stop discounting the CGA and also stop paying the IRS. It is only to be expected that they will end up dying." That is why, whenever the right is in power, public officials fear for their workers' rights, because what the right wants to do is to attack the public service. In 1998 civil servants were able to obtain the right to 35 hours of weekly work. They made the change of wage freeze in negotiations. In 2013, without negotiation, without explaining why, without showing the benefit and without saying how much it saved, the right imposes 40 hours. On 7 June, the proposal was published on 27 August and was regulated in 30 days. It is this right that now comes to say that we are in a hurry, the radical right says that it wants more moderation. Cutting is very hare, it's very fast, but to return, the right is always, always, turtle. Now, there is also concern about equality. Everyone realizes that it is an argument of convenience, because, when it was to cut Christmas and holiday allowances to public officials, who remembered the argument of equality to the right was the Constitutional Court. What would you do, then, to the right of the various private sector organisations that have a time of less than 40 hours? Would you force them to work more on the basis of equality? To the right, we have the innovation, in labour law, of less favourable treatment. The right always wants to impose equality when it's to remove everyone, when it's to leave everyone worse. So, Minister, what I would like to ask you is the following: does this budget allow for this right to be restored to civil servants? We know that it has budgetary impact, but it is infinitely inferior to the benefit of public service. Does this Budget allow 35 hours to be reset quickly? Is it possible or not possible to work to put them back before July? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u113	To respond to the requests for clarification by the honourable Members. Members Paulo Sá, José Luís Ferreira, Miguel Morgado and Joana Mortágua, have the floor Mr. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u114	Mr. President, Mr. Paulo Sá, tax breakdown, both businesses and families, has been repeatedly stated as an objective of this Budget. in this sense, the government defined it as a gradual and sustainable objective, an objective that has to be achieved in a sustainable way. With regard to your question on matters to be discussed in the field of expertise, I must say that of course we assume everything that will happen in this House, in terms of specialty, in the view of the functioning of democratic institutions, and surely we are always available for this debate and this analysis. We believe that this budget also extends to the proposals that will be implemented and, from this point of view, our provision is total to, in particular, find solutions that can improve this budget, while keeping its main objectives. As far as the debate on debt issues is concerned, on which, as I have said very well, we do not necessarily have a common position, I would like to reaffirm that the Government is open to this debate. We will not raise it, but we will be there, if and when this debate comes up,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u115	In the European Union!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u116	... obviously, in European terms. We believe that it is a concern of this government to be available for all this problem. Mr. José Luís Ferreira also mentioned, and well, the issues of credibility and the issues of Europe, and how credibility can in some ways be affected, precisely with budgetary strategies such as those he mentioned, which has already defined as being the budgetary force that the State budget for 2015 carries to the State budget for 2016. I have already mentioned in my initial speech that the State budget for 2015 has a deterioration of the structural balance of 0, 6 percentage points. If we also included this effect, the effect of the tax advance measures just mentioned would be 0, 8 percentage points. This is what the State Budget for 2015 imposes as an additional cost on the State Budget for 2016. It was therefore necessary to define a set of measures to recover this effect—and he is right when he says that it was the need he imposed on the State budget for 2016—and thus to promote a rigorous, credible and sustained fiscal policy. The risks you are talking about on global demand are completely internalized by the budget year we are presenting. That is why, in the projection that we make for the 2016 quota gain, that quota gain is null, is a fairly conservative number and value, if we look at what was the performance, the performance of Portuguese exports in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u117	Mr Minister, I apologize for interrupting, but, as there is background noise, I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members who create the conditions for the Minister shall be heard or leave the Chamber. Please proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u118	But that is precisely what makes this budget a credible and rigorous budget. For the problem of structural and potential GDP, it is clear that it is important to worry about long-term unemployment and, in particular, in Portugal, about long-term unemployment, about those who have been looking for employment for more than two years and cannot find a job. This under-utilization of the country's productive capacities weighs in what is the growth potential of the Portuguese economy, so we should be careful about this, in particular what is called these workers within social protection, but also in the productive area. The budgetary effect of Banif, in 2016, is the most indebted drag effect on the State budget. And it is clear that this effect will last on interest payments. It has no direct effect in 2015, but it will surely have an effect that will last because of what is the additional burden that imposes on Portuguese taxpayers due to the need to intervene in BANIF. Mr. Miguel Morgano, I am not going to say « Mário tells Miguel » because I have no intention of saving, nor will I get it. [[PS, BE, PCP and the Greens.]] The honourable Member has embarked on a labyrinth, of which he will hardly be able to leave, because he will have to assume at one time whether this budget is optimistic or realistic, whether it is spending or austerity. I understand, even if it is even a paradox in the « Mário tells Miguel », that you cannot understand what is more autonomy for the Public Administration, that you cannot understand that in all the sectors that you have mentioned, what this government, this budget brings is more autonomy, is more decisive capacity. This is probably because it does not believe that the Public Administration can use this autonomy productively and can guide itself to what are the different sectors of the Administration in a common objective, which is to make the Portuguese economy grow. The Portuguese economy grows more in this Budget than it grew in 2015. I must tell you that this too is not a signal of disproportionate optimism of this government, because all existing forecasts for the Portuguese economy exactly project this acceleration in growth. It is a very timid acceleration, it is true, it is an acceleration that is obviously framed in what are the developments of the international economy, that this Budget and the Country depend, because it is an economy that economists refer to as small and open. All these cautions, Mr President, are included in this Budget. I have just mentioned the issues related to the quota of exports. And that is exactly what this Budget promotes, it is a careful analysis, without shocks of trust, unlike other heights and that of such bad memory are for the State Budgets, in Portugal. Mrs Joana Mortágua, the 35-hour question, which was one of the issues she raised, but also the issues she referred to, and well on the recovery of income and the exploitation of all sectors, in particular of the Public Administration, are the key to this Budget and the policy of this Government and are fully reflected in its Government Programme. The question that arises, from the point of view of government action, is a question of gradualism, in the same sense that we have come to mention. The 35 hours are a programmatic objective of this government, they are included in its Government Programme, and they are in a very specific budgetary context, which we are already preparing. And we will certainly be ready to, at the moment that we have to make decisions on the implementation of the 35 hours, take them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to join the last group of requests for clarification from the Minister of Finance. Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u120	Mr President, the Minister of Finance has made a statement that obliges me to reshape my question. Mr Minister, in reply to my colleague Cecilia Meireles, and asking for us to be able to revisit the Eurogroup documents, said that the measures of such a plan b were for when necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u122	Now, there is a slight nuance here, because it is no longer « if necessary»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u123	It's "for when"!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u124	...if things ever go wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u126	Mr Minister, this is a debate on the budget, it is the most important moment of the Portuguese Parliament, or any other parliament, and a responsible ruler is obliged to tell the whole truth or to be as clear as possible. I may not get an answer from you, but we have taken good note of this nuance, that it is not « if necessary» but « when necessary ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u128	As soon as necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u129	Mr Minister, on the « second day of the rest of our lives » (adapting your quote) there are some assurances that they will remain. The Budget has entered this House, perhaps with almost no one wanting to take over its paternity. The Socialist Party said: "This is not our Budget, it is possible, it is the one we have been forced to do". The parliamentary left: "Go backward, because this is not our Budget, it is that of the Socialist Party! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, I wanted to say that the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block used hypocrisy, I will also reformulate and, using an expression from Mr. Miguel Tiago in one part, I will say: traitors.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u130	It wasn't me who invented it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u131	I am quoting you well, as you see, with great rigour, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u132	And it could be much worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u133	And why would I say that? Because I have memory, sir, I have memory! And if I compare a set of proposals that you have made for four years and with what is in this budget, I do not know why you will vote in favour. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] And I can even give an example. Yesterday, I noticed in Mrs Catarina Martins's defeated and very melancholy voice, which on the subject of electricity tax, in which there are proposals to move it to 6 % — including PS, but not to 6 % anymore but to 13 %, yesterday only asked for a social tariff, social tariff, which is the authorship of the PSD / CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u134	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u135	That's why I'm saying, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you are actually going to vote in favour of this budget, not because it consists of measures that you have always defended, since those that are here are exactly the opposite ones, but because this budget simply keeps you in power and is a tool of power and not an instrument to solve the problems of the country. This is the real reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I would say, Mr Minister, that this is indeed the budget that keeps it in power, but it is a budget that is bad for the Portuguese economy. And I'd like to say why. I do not know whether the Minister already assumes this budget as his or all other budgets, from his macro-economic plan, going through the outline, to the Budget itself and the set of mistakes that you have been presenting — you will be at risk of being known as the Minister who has gone wrong to the fatal mistake, and that fatal error will obviously be bad for the country. In any case, Mr Minister, I think it is worth considering here: Mr Minister began by predicting a growth for the economy of 2, 4 % ( I think I am not mistaken ), which was revised in the outline to 2, 1 % and in this Budget to 1, 8 %. I would say, a little while ago, Mr Minister, that he was a timid growth—at least, there is still a moment of real lucidity—which was still little. But Mr Minister, the previous government has achieved a 1, 5 % growth in the economy — and perhaps that is why the Minister has said that it is little and that it is shy. I can also give you other data. The previous government, too, managed to have an unemployment of about 18 %, but left with a unemployment of just over 12 %, almost the same, I would say, even lower, to be more rigorous, than we inherited from the previous socialist government. And, therefore, Minister, it is something to highlight. The Minister says: "Well, this budget, which is no longer austerity, but is still restrictive, expects exports to grow less, less debt, less employment. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, do you know what the export coverage rate of goods and services that the previous government has left? It was 104 % only! And they increased and beat records almost year after year. That is why, Mr Minister, because I think that Mr Minister is a serious man, and serious men, when they are wrong, ask for an apology, I ask you to explain to us why he is reducing his forecasts, why he is changing his forecasts for ever less and less, for ever more difficulties, for a lesser hope in relation to what was his expectation, which was economic growth? Mr Minister, you are not sorry, because the data I gave you, which the previous government achieved, were made in a scenario where there was the presence of the troika, a Memorandum, which was "son" of socialism, and obvious embarrassments.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u136	There's some rigor!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u137	Now, Mr. Minister today has none of these constraints. The Minister has total freedom to have a budget which defends the interests of the Portuguese economy, which defends the interests of Portuguese families and gives hope to the country. Mr. Minister does exactly the opposite, and he takes it. That is why I say that the Minister today has no excuse from the previous government and that obviously caused some restraint on what would be the wish and what would be the results we would like. Therefore, Minister, this Budget cools any man with positivity and expectation. And it is not just I who say it, the UTAO itself (Technical Budget Support Unit) says that the forecast for increased investment does not follow the recent evolution of the credit granted. It also says that the increase in external demand may be lower than that presented in the 2016 Budget. Entrepreneurs, the employers' confederations say, criticize the strong increase in the fiscal burden in the Budget. Employers'confederations say « The budget does not favour private investment ». I say, Minister : no one believes in your budget, neither the entrepreneurs, nor the international institutions, nor the national institutions. Mr. Minister shrugs his shoulders, as he says, 'They're all wrong, I'm right! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It seems strange to me, but perhaps I deserved some kind of humility this analysis I did. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u138	Mr. Minister, the data I am referring to are today. I could say: "Well, I'm here making opposition and, as such, I have to bring the negative data! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But no, these data are factual. Today, Mr Minister, data on business insolvencys have emerged, and if we compared homologous terms, January 2015 with those of today, the fact is that insolvencys, either at the request of companies themselves or at the request of creditors, increase by 15 %. That is why I say, Minister, that not even those family restoration companies that yesterday seemed to be the salvation of the Socialist Party are growing. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Therefore, Minister, I would say that the data we are familiar with today are enough to say that your Budget will fail. And perhaps that is why the Minister has a plan b for 'when necessary'. Maybe that's why! [[PCP protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday that it was a question of options, and it is true that we are talking about options. The Minister has chosen to increase taxes that affect almost all Portuguese people and goes right to the heart of the Portuguese economy: he increases the ISP (oil product tax) and hopes to collect 360 million; he increases tobacco tax and hopes to collect 145 million; he increases vehicle tax to collect 70 million, and this increase in vehicle tax is curious. Mr. Prime Minister, when he takes possession, arrives in an electric car baby and I thought: "Here is something consistent in the Socialist Party: energy efficiency, incentive and protection for the use of electric car". Question : Why does Mr Minister reduce half the support for the purchase of electric cars? This is because one thing is to encourage the use of electric cars and another is to see in Budget the incentive for the acquisition of these cars reduced to half — a small detail, but it is a sign of the incoherence of your government! In fact, the Minister has to give some answers here to say that I am not right, because the Minister has assessed the impacts of indirect taxes and IRC on businesses, has assessed the impact that this has on the economy. What are the measures that the Budget contains (these questions have not yet answered) to support not only small and medium-sized enterprises, the need to strengthen their own capital and finance, but also the support for exports, which, if I do not fail to remember, was something with which the Minister also agreed and one of the three pillars that the economy would grow. [[One of them is domestic consumption!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u139	Internal consumption, it is true, but also exports and investment! I hope that the Minister will be able to say that I am not right and that I have made a wrong reading of the Budget. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u140	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u141	Mr President, Mr Minister of Finance, over the past few years, especially over the past decade, are increasingly significant parts of the State budget that affect the problems of the bank. That is, more and more is the state's effort to save the banks from the upheavals and the adventures of their owners, of their great shareholders, of the bankers and of the large economic groups, who commit debts to the bank and do not pay, thus causing risks to the bank that have just been transposed into the State budget. Perhaps that is why and perhaps the PSD and the CDS have, over the past few years and only during their term of office, evaluated the passage of EUR 8 billion to save two private banks — one of them, unfortunately, already at the end of 2015, under the mandate of the current government — is that they have not put any question about the risks of the financial system and its budgetary implications.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u142	That's not all!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u143	However, Mr Minister for Finance, given that its budgetary implications are still very significant in this budget, I would like to leave some questions on the financial system. Firstly, on the assessment of the risk of this financial system and its weaknesses, I ask: what is the government's assessment of the capital needs of the General Deposit Box? What is the budget cabling available at the moment or which is prepared to be made available to a capitalisation of the General Deposit Box, bearing in mind that the Box has unfortunately been managed much more to the taste of the needs of the private financial system than of the public banking system and of the national interest?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u145	And on other banking institutions and other banking institutions, taking into account, in particular, news coming to the public about instability, inadequacies, capital needs, liquidity needs, insolvency risks in the Portuguese bank: what is the extent of the public resources currently being put to service by the government or at least at the disposal of other banking institutions and for what? Is the government available, or is it not, that, whenever there is an intervention to save a bank intervention, this would mean increasing the public control of the bank, at least the bank involved? A new Banif case cannot happen. There can be no new BES / New Bank case over the next few years or, better, none of these cases can be repeated in so far as this has shown, once again, the State to be used as an instrument of extortion to the Portuguese to pay for the errors of the bankers. Mr Minister for Finance, today the CFP presents a proposal for the nationalisation of the New Bank and its maintenance in the public sphere. We consider it absolutely essential, in the context of the broader CFP proposal for the public control of the bank, which we have paid the Bank, unless we are with it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u146	We consider it essential that the Portuguese State, having paid a bank, does not end up, yet, by delivering at a balance price or even paying for someone to stay with it. If the Portuguese people paid the New Bank, the New Bank should be placed at the service of the national interest, integrated into the public banking system. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. Government members, only a bank in the hands of the people can in fact be at the service of the country and of the interests of the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u147	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u148	Mr President, Mr Minister for Finance yesterday, when I heard Mr Prime Minister and today, when I heard you, I recalled a famous press conference by Prime Minister José Socrates, when he announced to the country the Memorandum of Understanding, in which he forgot to talk about what was there. You speak, you speak, but you forget to say what is in this State budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u149	Let's be straight. The budget presented to us increases expenditure and increases primary expenditure by around EUR 1800 million. It is spending — it increases expenditure. Primary expenditure is current expenditure, it is the one that is to pay services, it is not for social benefits, because this increases 80 million. Intermediate consumption increases 10 times more: 900 million. [[That's it! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u150	It's good to talk about the numbers and not the propaganda you like to sell. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u151	Then, next, how does the primary current expenditure increase and how, Minister, the truth is what it is and you cannot perform miracles, what did you have to do? Cut in capital expenditure, cut in investment expenditure! Jesus, what would the PCP say, what would the Block, the PS say, if we cut the investment expenses? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u152	But now this has become virtuous: it cuts investment costs and resolves to increase taxes. Which ones? The indirect taxes, those that the PCP, the Block and the PS previously challenged, because they said it was regressive, that it affected everyone equally, namely people who had less incomes. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] But, as you are proposing, what was bad once turned out to be good. This is the truth of the "management" and of your Budget! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And in view of this, Minister, we understand what has happened. First, the escape to assume responsibility: "This budget is not mine! , « This budget is not ours! ... This Budget does not seem to have « father», but we understand why. First, because it was to be an expansionist and restrictive; second, because it looks like it has a sarna and you want to cook it, they want to get away from it "as the devil flees from the cross", but the reality is that, regardless of what they say, they will vote for it. This is the reality that we're all going to assume. The second reason for this escape is that they are actually ashamed of the Budget that they presented to the Portuguese and the Country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u153	These are the facts, it's the reality. One last note, Mr Minister, and I think that is the most important statement you have made here today, is on plan b, the additional measures. You have just told us that it is not « if », it is « when », as Mr Hélder Amaral has already mentioned. But the Minister said more, he said that these additional measures will not be wage cuts, nor any increase in direct taxes, which means that he is prepared to increase indirect taxes once again. We already knew that the fuel tax would increase — more, and perhaps again in the middle of the night — but perhaps also VAT. And that's what I'd like Mr. Minister to confirm. What indirect taxes are being prepared to increase in April, to cover the holes that you are creating? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u154	To conclude this round of requests for clarification, Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u155	Mr President, Mr Minister for Finance, I would like to begin by welcoming you for the announcement you made in your initial speech concerning the rise of the specific deduction of each employee to the 600 € in IRS. I take advantage of it to question whether there is any novelty with respect to ascendants. I have a concrete question to make about transfers to the Autonomous Regions. The constant value of the XVIII map does not meet the criterion defined in the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions. I would like you to tell us clearly whether this value is going to be corrected, since EUR 17, EUR 5 million is missing, and whether the criterion defined in the Law is going to be met with equal rigour for both Autonomous Regions. Madeira was once again the poorest region of Portugal, following the economic-financial adjustment plan of which it was targeted, which added the austerity of the regional scope to austerity which resulted from the adjustment plan to which the country was subjected by the troika, while considering the impoverishment that stems from the local adjustment programmes of the municipalities that had to resort to the PAEL ( Local Economy Support Programme ). The Autonomous Region of Madeira faces the weight of an unsustainable debt and will continue to impoverish if this weight is not relieved. It is currently the region with the highest unemployment rate and where unemployment increases the most. The Government will be conscious of this impoverishment if it does not take any initiative to alleviate this asphyxiation that prevents the region's growth. It is not a matter of paying back the redundancies of the Regional Government, which did not know how to use its autonomy. It is necessary to consider the heavy punishment that the Madeirans have suffered in the past four years, as they have suffered the greatest increase in taxes seen in the country, and the loss of other benefits, such as the insularity allowance. There are responsibilities that must be met and justice must have the necessary means to do so. We have had the case of concealment of debt, the dumping of public money into little or no use in addition to the enrichment of local figures very close to the regional power. We had a spectacular police action, with searches in the services of the Regional Government. This is a process that has been dragging on for several years, which is going on between the courts of Madeira and Lisbon — it seems to be coming back to origin — but there are no significant developments in this case. Impunity must have an end and impoverishment must also end. Mr. Finance Minister wants to make a commitment here that turning it from the austerity page will not leave out the Portuguese who live in Madeira? Can the Madeirans count on this government to look back with hope for the future? I bring a final issue related to the management of public debt, which is very focused on the financial markets: the weight of savings certificates, which is 5, 7 %, and the tables of the State budget do not provide for such a change. However, does it consider it desirable to encourage other channels for saving savings, for placing the debt that favours the internal market, the retailer, which increases the weight of savings certificates or to bet on new instruments to reduce the country's exposure to the dreaded financial markets and reduce Portugal's external dependence? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u156	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u157	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, it would be good if I read the communiqués because I would facilitate your questions and my answers. And clearly, he didn't read the communiqué.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u158	Li, li!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u159	I'm very sorry, but I didn't read the statement. In the communiqué is written 'when'. If I had read the communiqué, I wouldn't have asked the question and I wouldn't have had to give this answer. But not only did he read the communiqué, but he still did not realize that last year the structural deficit deteriorated 0, 6 percentage points and that, with the anticipation of tax revenues for 2015, if we corrected this anticipation, this deterioration would have been 0, 8 percentage points. It is good for the elections, Mr, but it is not good for the stability of the public finances of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] The issues of unemployment are very important for this government, are very important for the Government's programme and are very important for the country, but it must also be understood that much of this reduction in the unemployment rate occurred by emptying the active population, by emigration, by exit, by failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] That's what happened and I think that's what makes you cool. Mr President, using the word « cooling » in this context not only does it not suit you from the literary point of view, as from the economic point of view it should make you understand what happened in 2015 in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u160	What you're saying is very weak and not literary!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u161	Talking about insolvency issues is also another way of doing politics, in fact. Reading newspaper titles is very little to do an intervention here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u162	What's that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u163	Mr President, the insolvencys required by creditors in January fell 20 %. Repeat: 20 percent fell!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u164	It's very weak!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u165	Insolvency that grew was associated with the completion of processes. Insolvency resulting from the closure of proceedings, which was not — I can assure you — opened from 26 November, rose by 56 %. They didn't, they came from behind! And these are the insolvency that has increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, therefore, making an intervention by quoting a newspaper title, I say again, seems quite weak to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u166	It was just an example! I can give you more examples!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u167	Mr. Hélder Amaral, on the issue of electric cars, the great incentive for the electric car is not to pay ISV (vehicle tax), and this continues in the legislation. The incentive you have spoken about is only for the slaughter of end-of-life vehicles and, even in this case, it is good to remember that it is in force. He would have finished on December 31 if the deadline had not been extended. We have extended the incentive for another two years but how it should be done, in a rational and rigorous management of this type of incentives: gradually reducing the value of the incentive. With regard to the contribution of exports to growth, I must say, Mr, that in the macroeconomic projections of this Budget, the contribution of net exports contributes more to the acceleration of growth than that of 2015. Therefore, the projection we make has supported a contribution from exports, particularly from liquids, which is quite relevant. Mr Miguel Tiago, the question of the financial system is obviously a central issue for the development of the Portuguese economy. It is a great concern of this Government to stabilize its financial system, to stabilize the presence in Portugal of institutions that can play exactly the role that is reserved for financial institutions in the economy and in the financing of the economy. Therefore the issues he referred to regarding the General Deposit Box will be considered, in this context, as very important to the Government, and not only the question of capitalisation, is also the resolution of the structural problems of the General Deposit Box. These issues will be dealt with with with with a huge sense of responsibility, which must, in fact, guide our entire intervention on the financial system. That is why, as I said a few weeks ago, the Government is preparing to launch a national debate on the financial system and the regulation and supervision architecture of the financial system, so that we can find together solutions that can solve these difficulties. Mr. Duarte Pacheco, I don't know what concerns you about spending. Pensions amount to EUR 484 million and rise because it is necessary to comply with the laws of the Republic and to enforce them. That is exactly what this government does. [[Protests by PSD Deputies Duarte Pacheco and Miguel Morgado.]] Orders and salaries grow EUR 500 million and it is very clear why this is happening, Mr President. It happens because there is a wage revaluation in the public administration assumed by this government, without any problems. It's totally transparent. That's why the expenses go up. The expenditure on intermediate consumption, on the other hand, if we correct them from the effect of PPPs (public-private partnerships) and from the classification of reserves in this amount, increases EUR 30 million, only EUR 30 million! This is the rationalization effort that the Budget brings, this is the effort that we are transmitting to all Portuguese. I am telling you again, Mr President, that what is written in the statement that the Eurogroup produced after the meeting is the expression « when necessary », and that is what the Portuguese Government has to pay attention and is certainly attentive. Mr Paulino Ascenção, the issues you raised with regard to the Autonomous Region of Madeira are obviously important and are being considered in this Budget. There was a problem of updating GDP (gross domestic product) which generated the differences of 17 million euros that you mentioned and they are being considered. The most important, in this Budget, for the Autonomous Regions, but also for all entities and all levels of Public Administration in Portugal, is that it takes a step towards the flexibility of the way the Public Administration is managed. This increased flexibility must be responsible. In the case of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Autonomous Region of the Azores, access to financing is a problem which obviously has to concern the Public Administration as a whole. We must not lose sight of the fact that this access to finance has to be made, as it has indeed well pointed out, with accountability, above all, by reducing the indebtedness of the Autonomous Regions. In the case of Madeira it is a very important matter and it is necessary to caution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u168	Mrs. Members, having completed the requests for clarification to Mr Finance Minister, have the floor for an intervention Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u169	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying to Mr Finance Minister that, as I did not have an opportunity to make a request for clarification to him, which motivates my intervention was something that came from an answer given to another Member. It seems that — and the Minister of Finance had this presence of spirit — we have similar musical tastes. He used a quote here and I reminded myself of another that seems quite appropriate to the moment we live and to the concrete situation of the Minister for Finance. Mr. Minister of Finance was the main protagonist in a macroeconomic scenario of the Socialist Party, which was sold to the country as if it were a species of a Bible. From there, there was a campaign with an electoral programme, in which you continued to be the main prophet of a particular macroeconomic path... [[Pause.]] Mr. Minister, I'm talking. I'd be a little more polite if I didn't turn my back, but even if I turn my back, I'll go on. [[It's a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u170	As I said, the Minister of Finance was the main prophet of a particular macroeconomic path. Then the Socialist Party, with the Minister of Finance, who, although I have left in the midst of my intervention, addressed myself to him in the same way, continued to present first the macroeconomic scenario, then the electoral programme, followed by the Government Programme, the outline, the State Budget and then knows what is there. Mr. Minister of Finance recently quoted Sérgio Godinho and I remembered Jorge Palma. Reminding me of Jorge Palma, I would tell Mr. Minister of Finance, if he were present, the following: « You already had half the world in your hand / You wanted to impose your religion / And you ended up losing freedom / (...) ». This is exactly the situation of the Minister for Finance right now. The Minister of Finance appeared with a Bible, which was the macroeconomic scenario, was a prophet of a religion who was going to save the country and ends up hostage of the Left Block, hostage of the PCP, hostage of the Greens and unable to respond to the European Commission, i.e. losing all their freedom. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We have already seen such dramatic situations as this in other socialist governments and we know that the freedom of the finance ministers of the socialist governments is very important, because, if it were not the freedom of a finance minister of a socialist government, we had gone to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u171	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u172	It was the freedom of a minister of finance from a socialist government, who against the will of his Prime Minister asked for a rescue, which prevented Portugal from continuing for bankruptcy. And, therefore, we must say, with all conviction, once again to make a reference to Palma: we do not care that Mr. Minister of Finance cannot impose his religion, but we are very concerned if he loses his freedom, because this may mean that Portugal may not have the same salvation as it last had when the Socialist Party was government, and that would be catastrophic. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u173	There are no requests for clarification, you have the word...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u174	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u175	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u176	Mr President, for my own fault, I did not register Mr José Moura Soeiro for a request for clarification. I wonder if I can do it now, with the announcement of the Bureau and the rest of the boards, and I believe that, on the side of the CDS, until there is that will...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u177	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u178	Mr. President, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, I appreciate the praise of the religion of austerity that you brought here,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u179	... but I would like to remember that what the CDS has done in this budget debate is a pure occult exercise. What would it be for families and the country, a CDS budget? What would it be? Oh, my God! Once the gentlemen. Members do not clarify this scenario, I would like to propose to them an imagination exercise on what would be an Budget if the CDS and PSD were in government. So I'm going to make a possible report if this scenario is happening. Here's the story. Minister Mota Soares announced in the debate of the State budget the freezing of all pensions above EUR 262 and new cuts to meet the commitment to reduce EUR 600 million in social security. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u180	On the replacement of holidays, he referred to a meeting with the Pope, to be held in 2018. The Minister preferred not to comment on the statistics that point to an increase in the rate of poverty. On the way out of a meeting with the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal ), the Minister rejected any increase in the minimum wage and Passos Coelho, which accompanied him, insisted that the reform that is needed in the country is the reduction of labour costs to attract investment. In the debate, Paulo Portas explained that there was no margin to move in the IRS, nor VAT, and that there would therefore be a penalty of EUR 417 million in the IRS for the middle class and EUR 740 million in the VAT, in relation to the left-wing proposals. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u181	Confronted with the proposal for a multiannual plan to combat precariousness signed by the Left Block, the PS, the PCP and the Greens, the then Deputy Prime Minister declared that a green receipt is worth more than staying at home and took advantage to announce a new protocol between employment centres and workforyou for the recruitment of young trainees. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In Coimbra, Minister Calvão da Silva, accompanied by Secretary of State João Pinho de Almeida, visited the filled calling for divine protection. « God will do his part! », declared the Minister. [[BE's laughs.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] In Lisbon, Metro workers continue to be on strike against the new private operator's lay-off plan and in port, users despair in the stops due to the cuts that resulted from privatization. Sérgio Monteiro, the Secretary of State, considers, however, that this was a good business. On the eve of the Budget, Minister Assumption Cristas took part in the initiative promoted by the promoters for the right to be born and, alongside Isilda Pegado, reiterated the government's commitment to the amendments to the abortion law. On the freezing of the family allowance, which this budget maintains, the Minister of the CDS said only that it was the result of the negotiations with Brussels. Confronted by the Block on the hundreds of evictions, as a result of the income law, Christas considered that they allow to dynamize the lease market. In the European Parliament, Nuno Melo and Paulo Rangel participated in a four-year celebration of the approval of the budget treaty where the German Minister Schäuble congratulated Portugal for the Budget and the praise received by the rating agencies. End of story. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems like a nightmare, but it could be a reality. Fortunately, with the last elections, the families, the middle class, the contributors, the precariouss saw themselves free of this film! There is a new majority and there is a new Budget, which is no dream, which has difficulties, but that certainly is not this nightmare that would be a CDS Budget. And this is already a huge relief. So, honourable Member, I ask: do you really think that the country regrets to have freed itself from your religion of austerity? [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u182	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u183	Mr President, Mr José Moura Soeiro, I should like to tell you that you should have a little insight into what was going on in the country when the PSD/CDS government assumed responsibilities,... [[BE's protests.]] ...because I, as far as austerity is concerned, can tell you that I am agnostic. So I don't have any other explanation to give you. I don't have any other explanation to give you, because I don't support any idea that virtues austerity. I am therefore in a position to reply to you about this, and in this Parliament I have said it several times, including when some measures have been adopted. I hope that the Left Block will have as much frontality as our bench did, so that, when it has to adopt difficult measures, it will say why it approves them and what it would do when it is able to solve the problems that required it to take the measures at that time. I hope you have the same frontality! [[CDS-PP applause.]] I realized that Mr. Deputy had the writing ready for someone to talk about the CDS. It was noticed that the writing was ready and had to be read! Look, there are several facts that are false. I cannot deny those of my colleagues, but I can tell you that I have never visited any of them. Luckily, it wasn't necessary! As Secretary of State of the Internal Administration, I did a lot of things, but I never visited any of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u184	You have to prepare the interventions better! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u185	So you had two days to prepare the essay, it could have been a bit more rigorous! You know very well the circumstances in which the PSD and the CDS ruled. You know very well the comfort of the position that the Left Block now takes, because neither the circumstances are the same, nor do you have the courage to be a government! So be ashamed! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Have shame on your face! You have no idea what it is to have responsibilities in the country, with the troika present. Not even with the troika outside Portugal you are able to sit there at the government bench to respond to the Portuguese for the choices you take, remain comfortable, in the same place as ever. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why, Mr President, for those who live from opportunism, for those who live from ease, for those who live from the slogan easy, yet there remains a little that can be stripped off. You are a member of a parliamentary group who proposed an increase of €25 per month for pensioners here. Repeat : 25 €/ month for pensioners!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u186	Yours was zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u187	These pensioners, for whom the Left Block has proposed an increase of 25 euros, will have an increase of 1 euro in this budget! A euro for 25 euros that was your proposal! You want to talk about credibility? [[BE's protests.]] You want to talk about what it's like to say one thing and do another? Do you want to talk about having respect for those who have less income? You want to talk about moral authority?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u188	I do!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u189	It's just, that, the Left Block always wants. I knew I'd answer what I wanted. Of course you do! So, is there anything the Left Block wants more than talking about moral authority? Oh, my God! Only if you always talk about moral authority, but speak very little about the responsibility you have to assume, about the choices you take! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] You will vote for an increase of 1 euro for those who proposed an increase of 25 euro. [[Protests from BE José de Moura Soeiro.]] And, Mr President, to conclude, because there is already Mr Finance Minister here, and I had promised that I would respond to the quote by Sérgio Godinho with one of Jorge Palma, I also quote Jorge Palma : « You can't be right/ When you have the cake spine», Member! Think about it! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u190	That's for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u191	That's good for the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u192	I know it's been a great success for Sergio Godinho and Jorge Palma. In fact, there is a range of possible citations for all benches and there is also a fictional work done by Mr. Bloc de Left and which must therefore be respected as such.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u193	So, Mr President, are you making comments now too? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u194	There is no problem with making comments! It is so heavy this multi-hour session that it can be scored from time to time!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u195	But he always makes comments on the same side. That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u196	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote against either the PSD or the CDS has already announced to this State Budget for 2016 is quite demonstrative that we are facing a Budget that contains options for change. If it were a Continuity Budget, accept-CL- would -it and we reject-CL- would -it! There is no doubt, therefore, that this is a budget that makes different political options. The demand for change which the Portuguese expressed in the last Acts, assigning the majority of Members in the Assembly of the Republic to the political forces that have committed themselves to change, has, of course, translation in this Budget. The fact is that if we were here today to discuss a PSD and CDS budget, we would be faced with a document that would continue to overtax IRS, wage cuts, pension freezes, cuts in social support and benefits, which would add a cut of EUR 600 million in social security, which would continue redeployment in the Public Administration, by means of requalification, worsening the services and effectiveness of public services, the rate of VAT of restoration to 23 %, the moderate rates and the increase of IMI without safeguard clauses. In short, it would continue to be the same strangular weight for Portuguese families, for which the PSD and the CDS said they would comply with a certain level of impoverishment, and the previous government even reported that, at income level, nothing could be like before. The most revolting is that they said there was no margin to change the social strangulation they imposed, but there was always room to lower the IRC for large companies, to end the contribution of the energy sector, to make favours to the bank also through the IMI. For these there was always room. This comparison between what is known to be the Budget of a PSD/CDS Government and this PS Government Budget, subject to joint positions signed with three parliamentary-representative parties, including the Greens Ecological Party, is important because it allows us to understand what we have delivered and allows us to gain a clear perception of what is changing. And the truth is that we are faced with an Budget which, in order to use the examples I gave earlier, puts an end to the IRS overtax, returns wages, freezes the increase in pensions, strengthens social support and benefits, including the solidarity supplement for the elderly, social income for inclusion and family allowance, reduces the restrictions on hiring in the Public Administration, reduces the VAT on restoration to 13 % in most products, reduces the moderate rates, does not lower the IRC for large companies, introduces the safeguard clause of the IMI and does not exempt from this tax the real estate funds, nor ends with the contribution of the energy sector. from here it results in a greater capacity for the country to reverse the logic of impoverishment, to combat the enlargement of the poverty stock market, to dynamize the economy and to guarantee rights to Portuguese. They may ask us: but is this the Budget that the Greens would build? No, it wasn't! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] A Budget built by the Green Party would have another look at fundamental public investment, particularly in the environment, transport, education, health and culture, and also on a fairer taxation between capital and income. But it is also necessary to say that this is not a Budget that the PS would build alone,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u198	This budget is nobody's!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u199	...if he had an absolute majority, because the past well demonstrated it. The truth is that the joint positions signed with other parties, including the Greens Ecological Party, had the merit of pulling the policies of the PS government for more just and very emerging measures, which the country needs as bread for the mouth. In the context of the discussion on the speciality of this State budget, we will not lose sight of the fact that we are faced with the challenge that the planet demands us to adapt our lifestyles to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We will therefore give you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, particular attention is paid to matters such as passenger mobility, both for soft mobility alternatives and for collective transport. But it is not the increase in the ISP that will achieve it, because the PSD/CDS government taxed more fuel, although they speak today as if they had never remembered it, at a time when they took away income from families and when the price of oil was much higher, and this factor did not result in the reduction of individual transport. What has led to a decrease in the use of individual transport and now also that of passengers in collective transport was the escalation of unemployment and emigration manufactured by the PSD and CDS, which exempt people from carrying out their pendulum movements. This is, of course, not a recipe for repeating! It is true that now the increase in the ISP, which the PS Government proposes, appears in an income replacement framework and in which the price of oil is much lower. However, if investment and incentive for collective transport do not appear, it will not be working for alternative mobility but only for revenue collection. There are other issues to which the Greens Ecological Party will give particular attention, namely the conservation of nature and the ability to guarantee greater preservation of fundamental ecosystems to promote the quality of life and sustainable production of the country, not only in view of the greater appreciation of our protected areas, but also of other heritage as fundamental as our rivers, flanked by numerous dams and by polluting discharges, and of our forest, scourged by the expansion of the eucalyptus. The establishment of rules, monitoring and monitoring are not indispensable for the achievement of objectives in these areas. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The paradigm of environmental and social policies has to change! Greens will work to ensure that investment options and economic dynamics are tools to generate better environmental and social conditions in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u200	There are no entries to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget has a past, a present and a future. The past is that of the brand image of Mr. Prime Minister, a politician whose strongest digital impression is his survival instinct. To survive the electoral defeat and avoid its early political reform, « bought », politically, the support of the PCP and the Left Block. To make the Budget pass, he gave in to all his electoral promises, from gradualism in the replacement of incomes to the lowering of the TSU (unique social rate). In order not to have the lead of Brussels, he retreated every day and across the line, he had previously stated his commitment to kicking Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u202	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u203	This is the Prime Minister we have! Your only bet is power. His great coherence is to yield to the lust of power. Your deep conviction is to retreat so as not to lose power. For this Prime Minister, what is required is the maxim of « everything’, including exchange convictions for conveniences, provided you get to power and stay in power. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]] His acolytes and supporters call this skill and talent; most Portuguese, on the contrary, think that such a politician is an unreliable politician, without principles and without convictions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u204	In this present is a budget that no one assumes. Transformed into a blanket of flaps, this is the Budget that does not please anyone and that no one, therefore, has the courage to take on fatherhood. António Costa was the first to say that this budget was better before going to Brussels. Mário Centeno, a specialist in subscribing today the opposite of what he defended in the past, soon hurriedly said that the fiscal scenario of the Budget was not, after all, what he wanted and ambitioned. The left-wing parties that support the government have already declared they do not like the Budget, but they will have to approve even the counter-gost, a political reel that leads the PCP and the Left Block to subscribe today to the increase in taxes with which they have always said they do not agree in the past. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u205	The European Commission, this, has left the Budget behind, warning from the outset that additional measures were needed to overcome the gaps in the budget text. The government then committed itself to the plan b that Brussels demanded. In other words, the Government liked more than the first version of the Budget, it tolerates the second, but it does not hesitate to have a third one in months, even if all are contradictory to one another. The important thing for the government is not that the budget has paternity, sustainability and coherence, the decisive thing is that everything will serve to perpetuate itself in power for as many months as possible. This is not the budget that the state needs! This is the Budget that the PS, the PCP and the Left Block approve to satisfy their customers, their ambitions and their desire to occupy power at any price. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u206	You're talking about PSD and CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u207	With this past and this present it is not difficult to look forward to the future that awaits us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u208	The gentlemen are good at this!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u209	The economy is suffering because it lacks confidence. If no one believes in the Budget and few trust the solidity of the government, there is no confidence to invest and undertake. Companies are unhappy and suspicious; they are unhappy with the taxes, which have been increased; and they are suspicious of new tax increases in the future, whether the successive tax, the IRC, or any other tax that is being prepared. Foreign investment defines such an environment of credibility that government decisions are spreading abroad. Certainly, then, the energy between this government and the economy does not pass! E, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst of all is the climate of uncertainty that this budget and this government sow.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u210	Certainties, certainties only in Santana à Lapa!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u211	At a time of uncertainty in Europe and in the world, Portugal was expected not to add uncertainty to the uncertainty that already exists. Well, this government does exactly the opposite: it is the uncertainty surrounding the execution of this budget. It is uncertainty whether or not we will need additional measures to avoid budgetary holes. It is uncertainty about the decisions of rating agencies and the rise of public debt interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u212	You're complimenting the boss with the hat of others!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u213	It is the uncertainty that exists about whether or not we will have Budget for 2017. It is the uncertainty of whether or not there is a political crisis on the horizon. This government is clearly the champion of uncertainty! [[PSD applause.]] Thus, it is difficult to have confidence and hope, investment and growth, more employment and less inequality, more solidarity and more social justice. So it's hard to have a future! The truth, however, is very clear: this was the way decided by the Government and its parliamentary acquittals. A path that only they are responsible for. After all, they have a majority that sustains them and cannot complain about the opposition, which makes the difference, but does not promote the blockade. This is your way! For the sake of the country, we wish you were lucky. With one certainty: if you fail, here we will be to lead a new and different path. A path without malabarism, but with more security; a path without unsuspecting maneuvers, but more solid and sustainable; a path that has coherence, convictions, principles and credibility. The Portuguese, in their time, will decide. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u214	There are no entries for requests for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister and Mr. Members, the essential question to which the Budget for 2016 has to answer is the following: should the right path be maintained by following or moving on the way? Anyone who is seriously concerned about the dignity of the lives of the workers and the middle class can only have a response to this: the right strategy impoverished the country, was an enemy of the families, attacked the workers, stylised the middle class and told all of them: "Don't bend, leave your comfort zone and endure! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In the name of common sense and, more than anything, in the name of a just strategy for the development of the country, this policy of social aggression and economic incompetence, to which the right has submitted the country for four years, has to be removed and the fact that this Budget, even though timidly in fundamental respects, assume that this should be the only way to be praised. in a clumsy search to camouflage its obsessive fixation in the recipe of austerity, PSD and CDS showed in this debate its indignation compounded by the increase in taxes on fuels. Poor middle class again sacrificed! It's a huge increase in taxes! — they called out to me my PSD and CDS, the parties of the taxpayers, that no one forgets. However, well analyzed the argument, the indignation of the right has more and less darkness and truth. Firstly, because PSD and CDS were the authors of a colossal increase in taxes which in the years of its governance rose to EUR 6126 million, with only the increase of IRS 3007 million. He's never been that far! And secondly, because the two parties on the right actually demand more and not less taxes, because PSD and CDS claim that Portugal is not meeting the goals of reducing the structural deficit and that it should do more in this regard. We know exactly what this means: less wages and more taxes on work. The former parties of taxpayers are now the parties of contradiction. These parties, who want less tax on middle class cars, at the same time want more taxation and less wages and pensions. Cohabited middle class, cohabited by the workers, who already know where this will give. But the right, which now rips the clothes off for fuel taxation, must be faced here and today with what it has committed to doing to the country if it were government. Let us then make the budget accounts that the right would like and indisputably continue to like, and do so with the numbers provided by the PSD/CDS Government to Brussels in mid-2015. This plan, presented in Brussels, provided for a total tax increase of EUR 2131 million, while the current government proposes an increase of EUR 1334 million, with a strong impact on fuels. The difference is EUR 797 million that the PSD and CDS would charge more. In view of these numbers, which are yours, which authority now has the right to come to speak of the tax burden of this State budget? [[Congratulations from BE.]] But if we go into detail, it becomes even clearer: the plan delivered by the PSD and the CDS to Brussels carried more than 740 million in VAT, plus 573 million in property taxes, plus 417 million in IRS and even more 102 million in IRC, only charging less than 330 million in fuel and others. The middle class that is taken care of, therefore, because with friends of these does not need enemies. But even tax would not live the budget aggression wanted by the right. A Budget of the PSD State and the CDS, as it is known, and it was said here repeatedly in this debate, did not similarly rest the salaries of the public service because it would return to the workers less than EUR 225 million, or the pensions that had been frozen, would affect less than 80 million. Therefore, it would still reserve more than 300 million euros to give the mysterious structural deficit. These are added to the EUR 797 million of taxes more than the State budget that we are going to vote on is now going to be around EUR 1100 million of extra charge on the middle class whose motor mobility on the right both wants to protect. In addition, Passos Coelho promised Brussels to withdraw EUR 1660 million from pensions in four years and to reduce the cost of social security by more than EUR 2400 million in the same period, EUR 600 million per year. Thus more than EUR 1700 million is added to the increase in austerity over what the current government proposes. These were the numbers of the PSD itself and the CDS itself — cotton does not deceive. The bill of the State Budget that the right was bound to have for Portugal in 2016 was made of tax increases and pension cuts, after all the only recipe that the right knows for the austerity of forever. The same PSD and the same CDS that promised, during the election campaign, to return 35% of the surcharge, which then moved to 20 % to 25 %, then to 8 %, and then to 5 %, passed the elections, saying that after all, they had nothing to return, the same PSD and the same CDS that are so competent to close promises can now say what they want on the accounts of the State that no one believes in whatever they say on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We must therefore choose between the recovery of the income of the families sacrificed and the vertigo of more taxes and more cuts in pensions and the Left Block chooses clearly: choose the side of justice and will vote favourably for this State budget. But it is not only by comparison with the budgetary nightmare reserved by the right to the country that the budget now presented deserves us a favourable vote. More than that, what this Budget restores in incomes and survived the wraths of the zealous guardians of the orthodoxy of Brussels, was what the agreement of the majority of parliament was able to guarantee right away in the first 100 days: increase of the minimum wage to €530, updating pensions by €63 million and replacement of pension supplements by €17 million. Reposition of EUR 135 million in social benefits, social supplement for the elderly, social income for inclusion and family allowance, reduction of overtax to 99 % of taxpayers and reversal of unconstitutional cuts in public service salaries. This State budget respects all these commitments and adds to this path the fall in moderate rates, the replacement of fair exemptions, the replacement of the IRS family quotient by a fixed deduction per dependent, making the children value all the same at the time of deductions, the real estate funds start to pay IMI in full and the families have a safeguard clause to protect their housing. in fulfilling its words in the measures agreed in the formation of the government, the current budget deserves our support because that is what we need to guarantee to those who cannot endure more cuts, more lies and more incompetence. The Left Block wants to ensure this recovery of people's lives and will, in consistency, vote on the adoption of this State budget. But, being very important, this Budget is just the first step of so many that it is necessary to give justice back to the economy with a secure strategy of fiscal justice, economic recovery and job creation. With the same commitment that we have put into the agreement for a new majority and that we have placed in the negotiation of a State budget that is beginning to recover income, we have since begun to prepare for the next State budget. In the coming days, we will begin to study with the Government and the Socialist Party, within the framework of the working groups provided for in the agreement we have established, new answers to the most complicated and urgent issues. Together, we will draw up a national plan against precariousness to end the real working offshore in which Portugal has become. We will study issues relating to non-contributory pensions and the social protection structure to combat poverty; we will evaluate the sustainability of external debt, because no central theme of our economy can be ignored; we will continue to work on proposals for reducing energy costs; we will discuss the housing policy of real estate credit and the taxation of real estate to combat speculation and guarantee the right to housing; and we will prepare changes in fiscal policy, seeking more justice, redistribution and transparency. We will not steal our efforts to face the challenge of building an alternative of development, employment and justice for the country. We approve this State budget, which reintroduces income, aware that we need much more in the future. We will be here to fight and to make all the dialogues necessary in this regard. That is what the people demand of us, and that is what we will do! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u216	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This State budget, which we all know is perhaps the most important bill discussed in this House, is presented at a time when the country is in a vulnerable situation. And I'm not saying it, it's not the government that says it, it's the European institutions themselves that say it. Anyone reading the report on macroeconomic imbalance procedures will know what is written there. And what is written there, basically, is that Portugal still has a very high level of indebtedness today, which makes it difficult for it to finance, perform and invest. It is said there — we all know — that the debt ratio in GDP has reached very high levels, that unemployment is high and that the labour market is segmented and that it is also said that the country's social conditions are very vulnerable. I begin here because sometimes we forget that we are in a situation where a sense of national interest is needed, and all Members, both here and in the European institutions, need to have the exact notion of how the country is and not make statements that could make their situation even worse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have hard work ahead, not only at national level, with this State budget, but also at European level. Last week, I had the opportunity to be in Brussels before a delegation of this House, at an inter-parliamentary meeting, and it was clear to all that it was necessary to complete the banking union and to walk decisively in the direction of a budgetary union. That is to say, in particular to the Members to the left of the PS, that we will do everything — it is in the Government's programme and also in this budget — so that there is a fight to change the rules in the European Union — the family to which the PS belongs, Socialists and Democrats-Europeans will do everything — so that, in addition to the State budget, we will have a debate at the level of the European Union. In the face of this difficult situation in the country, what we would expect in democracy—in democracy, as important is the government as the oppositions—is that the opposition participates in this debate. But we learned yesterday that the PSD and the CDS will not only vote against this budget but also refrain from presenting proposals in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u218	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u219	At least the PSD, the CDS may not. I call this democratic abstinence, i.e. to reject the role of Parliament in what it is most noble, which is to discuss and improve a State budget. It's a lack of sense of state, gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The question that is put to us is: why do the PSD and the CDS vote against this State budget? Is it because you don't believe in the macro scenario? However, we do not have the position of the PSD and the CDS today on this State budget, but we do have a stability programme, which was presented in April last year. So, I suggest to the ladies. Members, in particular the CDS and the PSD, who confront what is in this Stability Programme with what is in the State budget. It is that we came to surprising results, some of which I bring here: in relation to nominal GDP growth, what the PSD/CDS government of the previous height was that there was a growth of 3, 4 %. However, this government — and that is what is in the State budget — provides for 3, 8 %, which does not seem to me to be a big difference. With regard to private consumption, for example, which is the most important variable in terms of macroeconomic scenario, what is in this State budget is a slowdown in private consumption growth: from 2, 6 % to 2, 4 %. What do PSD and CDS predict? They expected it to remain constant for the previous year at 1, 9 %. So we don't see a lot of differences here either. We shall ask ourselves: does the right think that the weight of the State is excessive? So let's talk in numbers: the actual expenditure on GDP in the Stability Programme was 46, 5 %, Mr. Members, and in this State budget it is 46,3 %. Therefore, it is not because of the State's burden on the economy that they vote against. Is it because the tax burden is excessive? So let's go to numbers: the tax burden in this State budget, tax revenue on GDP, is 25, 2 %; in the Stability Programme, which you presented, was 25, 6 %, was higher. So it's not because of this either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, if it is not because of the credibility of the macroeconomic scenario, which is credible, if it is not for the objectives and targets in relation to budgetary policy, we can only conclude that there is a fundamental difference, and that exists in fact, and is in the nature of policies. This is because a State budget is not just a goal for the deficit, a target for debt, a goal for the ratio of public expenditure in GDP and a goal for the ratio of tax revenues in GDP. A State budget is much more than that. And I will not repeat what both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have already said here in the House about the measures. It is that we — and I put the PS and the parties on our left, of course, first of all — are concerned enough not only about economic growth, not only about employment, not only about the consolidation of public finances, but about something that is social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I confess, with great surprise, that Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho said yesterday that the PSD was defending the social state. I invite all of you. Members to look at the numbers: I will not slaughter them with numbers, I will not bring them here, but I know them: the reduction in social benefits that have recourse conditions, i.e. those that effectively combat poverty — I am talking about family allowance, social income for insertion, the solidarity supplement for the elderly — has been brutal in these four years. And they will say, "Well, it's reduced because it's reduced poverty." No, if that were the reason for the reduction of these social benefits, we would all be satisfied in this House. But no, poverty has increased, social exclusion has increased, inequalities have increased in a country with the greatest inequalities in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These social benefits have decreased because the PSD/CDS government — I regret to say — had a great social insensitivity in relation to the most vulnerable layers in this country. And that we cannot accept, nor will we accept. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u220	Don't say that! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u221	Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say the following: I already realized that there is a great deal of concern about the CDS and PSD benches with any divisions between the PS bench and the benches on our left, in particular the PCP and the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u222	There's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u223	I want to tell you that there are obviously differences, and we all take them here, but there is a fundamental "cement" that unites us, and that fundamental "cement" that unites us, and of which we will not abdicate, is the strengthening and requalification of the state and the fight against social inequalities, social exclusion and poverty. That's what this Budget does! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u224	There are no registrations for requests for clarification,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u225	But it's too bad, because they took a second lesson!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u226	... you have the floor for an intervention, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The PSD announced yesterday, not exactly here in the plenary, but through its President, publicly, that it would not present amendments to this State budget in the field of specialty. Now there is one more thing that is unpublished in this State Budget, which is a party to abdicate from presenting proposals in the specialty. I imagine what they would say about the PCP if, even in the face of the terrible budgets presented here by the PSD and the CDS in recent years, we had announced that we would not present any proposal in the specialty. They said we were just the opposite, that we were just a party to protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u228	Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u229	But to evaluate what has been said by the PSD in this debate, we even realize why they do not present proposals in the specialty. The PSD has presented itself in this debate with two versions on the State budget. So, what proposals would the PSD present? In version a, this budget scares the markets and questions the European commitments and, therefore, the PSD would certainly present proposals to maintain cuts in wages and pensions and, if possible, to worsen them, would present proposals to maintain the IRS supertax or perhaps worsen it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u230	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u231	... would detail the 600 million euros in social security cuts he had committed to in Brussels. [[PCP, PS and BE Member José Moura Soeiro applause.]] Therefore, the PSD would continue to be faithful to itself and austerity would be to continue and accentuate. Well, then there is version b, because to evaluate for other interventions coming from the PSD, this Budget exacerbates austerity and therefore it is necessary to alleviate austerity. And the PSD would propose that the overtax of IRS should be returned as soon as possible if the salaries were increased and salary cuts were reversed immediately, that the VAT of the restoration should already be lowered, that public investment should be increased, i.e. if it had done exactly the opposite of what the PSD has been doing in the past four years. [[PCP and PS applause.]] Therefore, the PSD solves this problem by not presenting any proposals, because if it did, or would lie to itself or show, before the country, what is its true face, because there is no doubt that if they were the PSD and CDS in the government we would be here discussing more cuts, more exploitation, more impoverishment for the vast majority of Portuguese. But it is not true that the PSD, in this debate, follows a policy of the worst. It was unfair to say that! It is that the PSD position is the worst, that is, the better this Budget for Portuguese, the worse for PSD, the worse for CDS. [[PCP and PS applause.]] Therefore, they have nothing to propose, they take refuge in the mistification, noise, the spread of falsehoods, in an attempt to say a few graces to which no one has found grace, trying to conceal the total disorientation in which they are found. In spite of the national and international campaign against this budget, the truth is that the negative consequences we face are those that you have left us and not those that may come from this State budget. [[PCP and PS applause.]] That's what irritates them, that's what disorients them! It is that the Portuguese will have proof that it was worth defeating you and opening the window of hope that this Budget represents. That is why we voted in favour, and you understand very well why: that is why you are voting against this State budget. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u232	The Bureau also does not record entries for requests for clarification to Mr António Filipe and I will therefore give the floor to Mr André Silva for an intervention. At the end, we will stop the session for the lunch period, starting at 3 p.m. You have the floor, Mr. André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Citizens and Citizens : We have verified that, of the measures contained in the so-called Green Taxation Act, this Budget only focused on renewing the incentive to slaughter vehicles and their replacement by less polluting cars. However, this incentive has been substantially reduced compared to previous years. At the Commission's place of business, we asked the Minister of Finance, who indicated to us the existence of increased fuel as a complementary and dissuasive measure of the use of own car. in this scenario of reduced incentive to the acquisition of electric cars and higher tax pressure on fuels, doubts arise about how the government thinks to promote the use of public transport. Problems such as privatization of the sector, the cost of passes, constant strikes, service failures or career cuts have removed thousands of citizens — accustomed in this sector to more duties than rights — from what is the most ecological alternative to mobility. The NAP will contribute, in the field of expertise, with measures that may bring more people back to the use of public transport. In the debate of the State budget it is important to talk about numbers, percentages or ratios, but for the NAP, it is essential to discuss ethics, values and, of course, criteria for allocating money. Thus, it was with deep shock and sadness that we became aware of the government's door office that makes it possible to return the hunt to Malcata's greenhouse, 23 years after its ban and in a context of a strong threat to the work being carried out in the meantime. This decision, taken in the wake of all those who have fought and continue to fight for the preservation of species at risk, demonstrates a deep disrespect for the work and dedication of many Portuguese and also demonstrates negligence, in view of the duty of the State to defend nature and the environment and to preserve natural resources, as expressed in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. In view of this scenario, will the government reflect on the mistake that has been made? Why is the government not in dialogue with those who have worked for so many years for a heritage that is of all Portuguese and that is dear to them? Won't the Executive give in to the interests of a minority who has fun joining friends to shoot, often in everything that moves? Perhaps most people don't know, but the hunting act, most of the time, brings a slow and agonizing death to the animals. I allow the criterion of each one to deepen the impact that this form of death brings to them. from an economic point of view, it will be possible, more effectively, to attract people to Malcata, promoting programmes of stays, visits of students and senior citizens, with a view to the experience and internalization of values in the presence and the importance of nature, the development of overnight shelters, wildlife watching spaces and leisure circuits. The relevance of this issue, on a day when the Budget is being discussed, results from the fact that millions of euros are being invested in the National Plan for the reintroduction of the Iberian Lince. As the NAP fully agrees with this investment out of the Portuguese purse, will it be responsible for putting this effort in question, for the fun of a minority? Will it be read from here that this government will have no problem putting what is of everyone at the service of only a few? By continuing to talk about legislative changes that we still do not understand and that contribute to increasing asymmetries in the distribution of funds, the recent changes to the port of call on the rural development programme of the former Government, allow transgenic maize producers — the only GMO allowed in Portugal — to apply for public funds, further damaging the already strongly committed promotion of agri-environmental measures, organic agriculture and integrated production. In addition to environmental neglect, we continue not to protect the health of Portuguese people, placing pesticides on their tables that are only useful for the megacorporations that are behind the production and evenization of our food. If we need to increase revenue, why not start precisely by eliminating the allocation of money to productions that call into question the balance of ecosystems and the health of people? The question remains: when is the end of the GMO subsidy in Portugal? We also wanted to try to understand the criterion underlying the choice of exempting VAT from a given service provision. They are exempt from VAT, inter alia, from the provision of services carried out in the exercise of the professions of doctor, nurse, transmission of organs and human blood, transport of patients or injured in ambulances, as well as services carried out in the exercise of their usual activity by day care, kindergartens, leisure activities centres, establishments for children and young people deprived of normal family environment, residential homes, establishments for children and young people with disabilities, rehabilitation centres for disabled people, homes for elderly people, holiday colonies, youth shelters, public services for the removal of lyes, food services and beverages provided by employers to their employees, activities of public radio and television companies that do not have a commercial character and services for Tauromachic artists. As the latter is not a sport, humanitarian, philanthropic or civic activity, most citizens would like to understand why the absurd exemption from VAT to tourists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u234	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Bureau does not register entries for requests for clarification, I will give the sitting a break and we will start again at 3 p.m. We still have about 2 hours of debate, the closure, which will last about 1 hour and 40 minutes, with the prospect of all parties using all the time they have available, which is not necessarily mandatory, and still voting. The sitting was therefore suspended. [[It was 13 hours and 3 minutes.]] Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we're going to restart our work. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. I give the floor to Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Emilia Santos, to proceed with the reading of the dossier which, in the meantime, has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: draft resolution No 168 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government requalify and expand the Basic School 2, 3 Navigator Rodrigues Soromenho, in the municipality of Sesimbra ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; and proposals of lein. 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Done at 41. the amendment to the Penal Code and transposes Directive 2014 / 62 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the criminal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000 / 383 / JHA, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Conditions of financial responsibility of the State in the provision of health care to the users of the Regional Health Service of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, by the National Health Service, and the recognition of the principle of reciprocity ( ALRAA ).
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue our agenda, with the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a). For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues of the Government : This is a budget of choices in public finances, in the model of growth, in economic and social policies. In particular in social policies we assume that this is a combating budget: against the risk of poverty, which today reaches about a quarter of Portuguese; against a level of inequalities, which has worsened to values of a decade ago; against the open wound of emigration, which threatens an entire generation; against the failure to condemn the deep exclusion of some of the most fragile of our society. To take up the fight for equality and against poverty is not just a matter of sensitivity, it is not just a social issue, it is first and foremost a question of choosing the model of economy and society that we want to share. It is not possible to succeed in promoting cohesion when assuming a model of impoverishment in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat: it is not possible to reduce inequality when opting for impoverishment! It is not possible to reduce inequality when you intentionally debalance the model of labor relations! It is not possible to say that we do not intend to leave anyone behind when the policies of combating extreme poverty are being tolerated! And this was, in short, the inexhaustible contradiction of the economic and social policy of the PPD Government / CDS. The results are not wrong. And this would be the way, in some respects, perhaps reinforced, of the current minority of this House if it had been able to form government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in a simple image, replace social rights by assistance, replace public regulation by the absence of the state, reduce solidarity to charity — this was the social policy on the right! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our way, the way of this Budget is another. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] First of all, it is to value decent work that has to be at the base of building a path of reducing inequalities in income. Therefore, we assume the minimum wage as a basic instrument of this evolution, involving all social partners in their determination and evaluation. We know, however, that without the return of a strong and comprehensive new collective bargaining, the way to reducing labour imbalances will be very difficult. Secondly, we want to strengthen the social security model, ensuring the stability of the pension system, avoiding bottlenecks, such as early reforms, and renewing the commitment to combat fraud and avoidance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, today, the rule is again in force which ensures that, in any economic situation, about 2 million pensioners at least see the replacement of their purchasing power guaranteed. It is a safe model, which has to ensure predictability of pension updating, most of them degraded for several years. But it is a model that, in order to be sustainable, needs to be more ambitious in combating fraud and tax evasion, which has to drastically reduce the number of social benefits unduly paid and which has to counter the tendency towards bureaucracy of instruments to control benefits systems. All this, translated into a plan to combat fraud and tax evasion that adds EUR 200 million to social security resources in 2016. This is our commitment! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, we want to strengthen and renew the policy of social minimums. It is not possible to effectively combat poverty if we devalue the role of policies specially designed to combat it. In order for the reduction of poverty in the elderly to return, we need to renew the effectiveness of the solidarity complement for the elderly as a last barrier to the lack of income of the elderly. This instrument has proved its effectiveness, but it only exists if the solidarity complement for the elderly to return to what it has already been: an active policy, which guarantees each elderly person an income above the poverty threshold. And that is the way taken in the Budget that you will approve! But this path also implies renewing the policy of basic minimums, which has in the social income of its last instrument, and which this Government clearly assumes. In Portugal there is a group of citizens — minority, of course — who do not have monetary, social or even cognitive resources to escape extreme poverty. A public policy that respects the dignity of women and men in our country cannot compromise with the populism that sees in the poor the first target of budget savings! [[P.S.'s applause.]] A path to ensuring rigorously the rules of rights to social minorities is part of our conception of citizenship. And that path is assumed in the Budget that you will approve. Just as the course is started to strengthen our social protection system in that area where it is more fragile, which is the protection of people with disabilities. The steps taken are still insufficient and will only be completed with the single provision of poverty control in people with disabilities, which will certainly already be part of the 2017 Budget. But the choice for social cohesion must also make decisive choices in more fragile areas of our society, such as combating the poverty of children and young people. The option of updating family allowance, with a particular effort among single-parent families, is an important step in this regard: it involves more than 1 million children and 240 000 in single-parent families respectively. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also an incomplete path, especially taking into account the difficulties of young families in the early years of their children's life, but it is a path of great significance, and it is also assumed in the Budget that you will approve. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that success in the fight for more equality and in the fight against poverty gains mainly in creating more and better jobs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u238	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u239	... in valuing work, in choosing the best active employment policies. But also in the effective generalization of preschool, in progressive access, without restrictions, to daycare or school textbooks, in the non-discriminatory educational model, but with more professional capacity. And that is also the way taken in the Budget that you will approve. The way for cohesion does not deprive anyone of it and must value the social economy and the solidarity sector. That's how we do it today, as always! But we will not abandon the role of the State and public policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will not abandon the role of the State and public policies! For this reason, this budget increases by two the financial effort for income transfers to the elderly compared with the previous policy; it increases by 120 million appropriations for social minimums, either in the family allowance or in the social income of insertion (RSI), reinforces the funds for social action and cooperation. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a budget of a statisticizing government, which limits the freedom of an open and tolerant society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is a government budget and a majority that assumes that the state is not only the largest guarantor of the values of the Republic, it is also the ultimate responsible for the construction of more justice and more equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Don't be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the right! [[PSD protests.]] We assume this as our Budget! This is our Budget and will be the Budget of most Portuguese and Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not reject the choices we have made, and in this Budget they will find, because it is true, the essential of the commitments that this Government and the Socialist Party have made at the electoral and government training times. There is the replacement of wages, there is the fight against the breakdown of pension value, there is the increase of the national minimum wage, there is the increase of social minimums. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, above all, the contribution of sustainability is not there, which only by the lead of the Constitutional Court the previous government did not apply in the last legislation! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is also no continuation of the cuts in the salaries of the Public Administration, which you wanted until you applied lower wages, but only did not do so because the Constitutional Court did not allow it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it's not just the court of pensions that you promised Brussels and hid in the elections because you lost these elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This budget applies to what is there, but it also applies to what does not have of the policies on the right, of the policies of recession, of the policies of social retrogression. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the day when this House votes in final vote, this budget will spend exactly 100 years of the day when the Republic first created a Ministry of Labour and Social Security — March 16. in this past time and in this other Republic, it is still worth valuing work and affirming cohesion as the greatest value of our society. And that is also the way of the Budget that you will approve! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u240	The Bureau recorded the registration of nine Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. In the meantime, I was informed by the government, that Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security will jointly respond to groups of three Members. Ladies and gentlemen. So you have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u241	Mr President, Minister Vieira da Silva, you have just done here in this Parliament in the discussion of the State budget for 2016, a truly hilarious intervention. I'd even say that you had two rounds of bravery here, which I'm going to specify, and two rounds of bravery. As for bravery, Mr Minister, in fact, there is no doubt that you were brave when you recognized that the PSD and CDS-PP did not win the elections exactly because whoever won the elections was the Socialist Party! Open... [[PSD laughter.]] This, really, is an act of bravery! As is an act of bravery you say this is your Budget! Of course it's your budget, Minister! ...of course it is! ...You, really, are a brave man to say these remarkable things. On both aspects of bravery to which I would like to refer, Mr Minister, you said, and I said well that job creation is an important tool for combating poverty. It's true! In fact, that is why Mr Prime Minister says, emphatically, that your purpose is employment, employment, employment! And we, in the face of this trilogy, stand still and say: "There comes an apothetic creation of employment! Do not keep on seeking. ” Employment will grow — Mr Minister knows — 0, 8% in 2016! A third below what grew in 2015! Now you're so brave, Minister! But the problem is not just that, which was enough! The problem is that in the face of such modest employment growth, you are experiencing exponential growth in social security contributions, which are growing 5, 7%, i.e. 7 times more than the employment that generates social security contributions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u242	It's the wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u243	And why is that? Why is that, Minister? The explanation is very simple: you have to give cosmetics to social security accounts and, as such, increase the value of contributions until you endure what is necessary for pension expenses, unemployment benefit and sickness benefit. Mr Minister, I think you have to explain here, in Parliament, how, with such low employment growth, you have such a high contribution growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u244	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u245	That has to be explained today! The second act of bravery, Mr Minister, has to do with unemployment and the protection of unemployment. I remember how you criticized the lack of protection in unemployment. I remember, even, that you wanted to forget that those who removed unemployment protection measures were you in 2010 and you were with the Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u246	I'd say!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u247	But you have soon forgotten this and it was then to hear the PCP, the Left Block and the PS screaming against the lack of support measures for the unemployed. Well, Mr Minister, in addition to rising unemployment in 2016 less than it grew in 2015 — it grew less than a third — you have a sharp fall in spending on unemployment benefit. Now, please explain how your attacks are compatible in the past, and now, with this sharp cut in unemployment benefit! You don't mind explaining, Minister? [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u248	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, this is the first budget in several years which respects the Constitution, which recovers incomes, which turns the page of austerity and makes clear choices in defense of those who need it most. [[PSD protests.]] If we did not know anything else, this would suffice to conclude clearly, and of course, that this budget could never have been presented by the Portuguese right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, as Mr Minister has said, the most accurate are the Portuguese who have been victims of the ideological experimentalism of the PSD and the CDS-PP, which have transformed Portugal into an incomparably more unfair and unequal country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know why they did it! It was not by sadism, as they say, but by ideological fixation that imposes impoverishment as a strategy and the reduction of the role of the State in the organization of the economy as the basis of your political action. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In fact, Pedro Passos Coelho soon told what he was coming in October 2011 — see there! « It is not worth demagogy on this, we know that we will only get out of this situation by impoverishing it in relative terms, in absolute terms, to the extent that our GDP is falling ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u250	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u251	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us do justice: indeed, this was the only promise the PSD has kept scrupulously throughout the last legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Contrary to what you have done, with this Budget we do not say « impoverish », we do not present the street door and say « migrate »,... [[PSD protests.]] ... do not point the finger and say « do not bend, leave your comfort zone», do not condemn « live with less, because they lived above your possibilities; they had disproportionate ambitions, such as having home, having decent work, having a decent life for your families, having a pension in old age or having support in the disease». In fact, there is a fundamental difference, because, unlike the right, with this Budget we do not say, we do not think and, above all, we do not act in this direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a budget on behalf of a decent country, which gives a double signal: a turn in relation to the policies of recent years and the proposals that the right has already presented in Brussels to cut more incomes, but on the other hand, it is also a reality budget, which distinguishes itself from the alternative country in which PSD and CDS-PP continue to live. in this country, there is an imaginary Prime Minister who is about to inaugurate schools; in that country, a certain bank even made profit; and the best of all is that one can see a government kneeling in Brussels. In fact, the Deputy Assumption Cristas, in an interview published last Friday, said that Mr Passos Coelho certainly needed to apologize. Mrs. Members, of course you must apologize for the great firmness with which you have fought for national interests over the past four and a half years with Brussels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, with this and with these contradictions, we finally see why the acronym of opposition parties is composed: the PPD says and the PSD says it; the CDS affirms and the contrary PP. So you can say everything and your opposite. [[PSD protests.]] But we did not enter the championship on the right for expiation of the guilt of the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're not going into this championship, but we're making a move. Those who led the previous government went from passive acceptance of gross measures to Portuguese for the projection of personality. He was such a kneeling executive, but so kneeling, from which, understandably, everything still seems too low and obviously kneeling. This budget shows that we finally have a government of national impoverishment, and that is what costs the right, thus playing in the strategy of despair and hysteria against the interests of Portugal. Over the last few weeks, we've heard everything. First, we heard that there would be no agreement between the parties that support the government, but there was; then, that the Budget would not pass in Brussels — and they did well to work behind the scenes to do so — but passed; then that would cause problems to the parties that support the government, but did not cause; then that the flood of rating agencies would come, but see there, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a long time. [[PSD protests.]] They are left with the strategy of small cases and some kind of exoterism about what will happen in the coming months. Because they don't need to resort to any witch! We tell them what will happen: the State budget will be approved and will be fulfilled, investing in the spiral of impoverishment in which you have plunged our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The course we started is clear and reflects a new public action that values work and combats poverty and exclusion. We know that the Minister has a lot of work to do, because the former Government has transformed the then Ministry of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security into an authentic ministry of lack of solidarity, unemployment and social insecurity. That is why this is also a Budget that presents a mistake, certainly, but it is a mistake to the cynicism of the right, because while talking about poverty and exclusion, PSD and CDS-PP have increased poverty, and in particular poverty among the most vulnerable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] While propagandizing as a friend of the families, the right cut subsidies and cut the RSI to 65,000 children, who certainly lived above their possibilities... [[P.S.'s applause.]] While speaking of support for the elderly, the right kept the pensions frozen and cut the solidarity complement for the elderly, increasing the risk of poverty among them. In all this, we talk about options. Right says no. He insists that it is reality, when, in fact, it is his, it is your construction of reality. And many have internalized this position, which is always ideological and which has launched poor against the poor, workers in the private sector against workers in the public sector, new against old, active against inactive, while the country was sinking into the destruction of our social contract, which is the really existing program on the Portuguese right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is what the right calls, suggestively, reality, Christian democracy or social democracy. For they can call it all this, and they do not represent any of them ever. And this budget rejects the ideas that the right has become dominant in broad sectors of our society, namely that working longer hours is necessarily more productive, that not having labour rights is modern, that trade unions are archaic, that precariousness facilitates employability, that low wages are an inevitable, that the state always manages worse than the private sector, that structural reforms are always those that rob us of dignity, that take us back rights, that take us back. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this is not our way, and this Budget proves it and demonstrates it! We refuse the resignation of this world, which is the one on the right, because it is not the reality that divides us, Mr. Members, but first the political options to intervene on this reality. We seek to transform and reform an economic system, which is too often too unjust and to which we will never resign, thus launching the real structural reforms, those that truly count, so that no Portuguese will stay behind, so that no Portuguese will remain on the roadside. That is what divides us from the right and that is what unites the parties who support this government, who do not resign themselves, who do not comply and who today will vote in favour of the State budget in general. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, already here today much has been said about Sérgio Godinho and Jorge Palma, two interpreters I like very much, I confess. But let me add to the repertoire, Zeca Afonso, by chance on the day of the efemeride of his death. He said: « Above all it is necessary to stir, above all it is necessary not to stand still, above all it is necessary to have courage, above all we have to be people. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] For it is this disappointment that unites the parties that support this government. That is what this government is mobilising, and that is what the left parliament is doing for people who were more precise there. And that is what this Budget answers. And that is why the right-wing, PSD and CDS-PP Members do not comply, do not resign and are with the verbal violence that is recognized to them. Mr Minister, the options of the State budget contribute to economic recovery, contribute to job creation, in addition to reducing the risk of poverty and the risk of inequality while ensuring the conditions of structural sustainability of social security. We also left the era of the inevitability of the right and entered the era of choices, in the era of choices. And the Socialist Party congratulates the Minister on this option. I shall finish by questioning whether you are in a position to indicate to this House the impact of austerity policies on the social security budget, both because of unemployment generated, and because of mass emigration that the right has caused in our country. What is the real impact of these policies on social security incomes and what would be the expected impact in the coming years if we did not decisively reverse this course, as we will be doing from now on? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u252	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u253	Mr President, Minister, we greatly appreciate the measures for the recovery of income and the replacement of the social support contained in this Budget, particularly at the level of the minimum wage and the fight against poverty. We also value very much the diagnosis that will be made of precariousness in the state and the multi-annual plan to combat precariousness. In the next six months, the Left Block will be tireless to give concrete content to this plan. It is good news to announce the hiring of new inspectors to the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ), but we also need to give them more means and more competences and we need to make a legislative leap in the fight against precariousness. The example of what happens in stages is only the demonstration of the jungle in which the world of work has become. It is also known that the great limitation we have identified in this Budget concerns the issue of unemployment allowance and the fact that this State budget has not yet been able to respond to the 385 000 unemployed who do not have unemployment allowance in Portugal. I would like to ask you a question about a particular aspect of the fight against poverty, which concerns the fact that having children today is a condition of poverty. Even for those who work and receive the national minimum wage or little more, if they have one or two children, they are already in a state of poverty. The path to combating poverty is certainly the recovery of wages, but this budget needs to be given concrete answers to this reality. Therefore, in the discussion in the field of specialty, the Left Block will propose a strengthening of the 2. o is 3. the steps of the family allowance to deal with this situation and we wanted to know whether the Minister and whether the Government share this view and are open to this improvement.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u254	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions that have been addressed to me. Mr Adam Silva, hilarious was the expression that he chose to characterize the analysis of the country I did in the areas of social protection, employment and combating exclusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u256	And delirious too!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u257	The choice of this word says a lot about the position of the PPD in this debate. You speak bravely and bravely. Mr President, I would not demand either bravery or bravery, but only the minimum of dignity to explain whether the 600 million pensions that you have hidden in recent months remain in the PSD programme. It's not a matter of bravery! [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] You don't need to be brave or brave, you just need to take your party's positions with dignity. With regard to employment questions, Mr. Member, of course we would like to see employment growth greater, but there is one thing I am sure: is that the job that will grow in 2016 will have many differences from the one that apparently grew in the previous year. It will not be so dependent on the dependency allowance that you have established in relation to job creation.... PS applause. ... by putting serious difficulties to the financial values of employment policies, nor will it be dependent on so many false jobs, nor on so many stages paid by weight of gold. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] On the other hand, you know very well about the contributions... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The expression « hilarious » appears to have been extended in the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Adam Silva, on contributions to social security, I had the opportunity to explain in the debate in which he was present, and in which he put the question, that the value of contributions obviously depends on economic growth, obviously wage growth and obviously active policies to improve the performance of the system. But there is one thing I can assure you: unlike the past, you will have the opportunity to check, month by month, how social security contributions are evolving. And, look, so far they are perfectly in line with what is planned in this budget proposal which will be voted on in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u258	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u259	Mr President, the absence of the PPD/PSD in this debate, limited to these interventions, to which, in fact, a little bit of substance is missing, may still be perceived by the fact that you have not yet fully accepted the results of the exercise of democracy. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You have sat on your bench someone who seems to play a Prime Minister's place in exile and therefore have nothing to say about this budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[He won the elections!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u260	You guys look like those football teams... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I can give you another 30 seconds or even 45 seconds so that Mr Minister can continue. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u262	As I was saying, you guys look like that amateur football team that loses the game and gets to the edge of the field constantly claiming the result. [[We won!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u263	But the House voted and destroyed the government that you tried to create. [[P.S.'s applause.]] E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, now that we are on the tide of quotations from Portuguese popular music, it is time to leave this place, where you seem to be, "waiting for the train at the bus stop. They seem to be waiting for the train that will not come, because the Assembly has already decided. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, the issue you raised is very serious and deserves a deep debate. The economic crisis that started in Portugal, basically in 2009, and which continued throughout all these years, has produced profound impacts on the social security system. We lost more than half a million jobs during this period. That has an impact on social security. Only in the period of austerity policies from 2011 to 2014, only the contribution revenue fell, accumulated, about EUR 3000 million, to which the values of unemployment subsidies should be added. Strong and consistent economic recovery is needed so that we can regain social security with more sustainability. But that's gonna start happening this year. Just look at the social security budget. Mr. José Moura Soeiro, I fully agree with the vision that child poverty is a critical issue of our collective life and that there too the rise in employment and income levels is decisive, we can do better in terms of social protection. We can do better and walk towards a more child friendly system, particularly in the early years of life, because that is where the risk of poverty is higher. We will, of course, be available to discuss all the proposals that come. We know that only some of the benches will come, but this is democracy. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u264	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second block of questions. The first speaker to put requests for clarification to Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security is the Member of the CDS-PP Filipe Lobo D’ Ávila. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u265	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Vieira da Silva, you, in fact, are already a habit of these debates, you are recognized as a man with a lot of political experience and also with technical knowledge in the area that you are protecting. The Minister is here to tell us that this is a budget of choices and of combat. So today, we have had the most political version here, a version of the musical genre « evil, evil», but the truth is that, as we are in this register, the best way of contradicting is to call to the debate Mr Vieira da Silva. Mr Vieira da Silva, do you know what Mr Vieira da Silva said when the previous government anticipated an increase of 4, 1 % in social contributions in the budget for 2015? We were not talking about the 6, 3 % originally proposed by this government, we are not talking about the values that have been successively corrected in the mistakes, in the letters out there, and therefore we will not know whether until the end of the debate of this Budget the values remain. But, Minister, do you know what Mr Vieira da Silva said? He said: 'What about the forecast of growth of social security contributions that grow five times more than the already optimistic growth forecast of 1% for employment? What about these predictions? No, there is no serious reason that it is based on these forecasts, only on the need to ensure in the spreadsheet, that not really, a deficit target which, however, the Government assumes that it is above the previously agreed with the European Union ». And Mr Vieira da Silva continued: « That is also why this is a bad budget». Mr Minister, what would that same Mr Vieira da Silva say to Minister Vieira da Silva now? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] That there are no serious reasons why these options are justified? What is this option just to satisfy the calculation sheet of Minister Centeno? What's fiction? What's not credible? Or what is it simply — what is it — a bad budget? What would Mr Vieira da Silva say about which he envisages 6 %, 3 % at the beginning, at the end of a week, and now that at the end of a week he changes the scenario to 3 % growth? What would Mr Vieira da Silva say to now Minister Vieira da Silva or perhaps even Minister Centeno? Would you say, as you said in 2015, that the Budget fails the credibility test, Minister? It is clear to us, of course, that those who do so much in no way will succeed. Clearly, the test of credibility fails. I would also like to ask you another question which is probably not surprising to the Minister. over the last four years, minimum social and rural pensions have increased above the level of inflation. in this Budget, the PS proposes an increase of 0, 4 %, far below the inflation expected for 2016 — three cents per day, does not reach one euro per month. And in this regard, taking advantage of the proximity that Mr Vieira da Silva has, on the bench of the Government, with former Mr Cabrita, Mr Deputy Minister, I would like to ask what Mr Eduardo Cabrita would say today to Minister Vieira da Silva? It is that one year ago in the 2015 budget debate, Eduardo Cabrita said the following: « For the so-called minimum pensions, 2, 5 € per month... These are the criteria of justice on the part of this government. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u266	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u267	Mr Minister, what is now the criterion of justice when the increase is €1? What's the criterion, sirs. Ministers? What's the criterion, sirs. Members, former Members of the Socialist Party Eduardo Cabrita and Vieira da Silva?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u269	Mr Vieira da Silva, who returns to the home, knows well, or should know, that the worst enemy of the social state is the broken state. It is not ideology, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, it is reality! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] To put a country in bankruptcy is to increase poverty, unemployment, social inequalities. It is not to value the work, it is to leave all Portuguese behind, Mr. That is why, Minister Vieira da Silva, it is good that we do not return to this past. And at that point, let me call the technician and not the politician himself, because the country is full of politicism. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u270	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Employment, Solidarity and Social Security, Members of the government, we understand why the PSD and the CDS say the past is of politicism. Politicians, see, that have led the Constitutional Court to consider the proposal of definitive cutting in pensions above 600 € unconstitutional. Politicians, see, of the Constitutional Court, have considered the cut in unemployment benefit and the sickness benefit as unconstitutional. Politicians, look at the responsibilities of the former PSD Government and the CDS for the worst increase in poverty since the time of fascism! I repeat: the worst worsening of poverty since the time of fascism! But, Minister, we would also like to recall page 39 of the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019, which the previous Government sent to Brussels and where it took — read — « a cut in the order of 600 million euros in the pension system. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, when we are discussing the State Budget for 2016, we need to keep in mind what you wanted to perpetuate until 2019. Indeed, what you had as a political project was the impoverishment of the vast majority of Portuguese and the concentration of wealth in a small minority and it was this political project that was defeated.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u272	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u273	Indeed, these options have revealed a deep disregard for living conditions and the dramatic difficulties of thousands of families. But they have revealed more: in addition to contempt, they have revealed that you have never intended to fight poverty and have always made it a political instrument to impose more and more sacrifices. That was for four years. For four years, the number of people in poverty has risen to 2,600 000 ; one in four children lives in a family, in a poverty situation; only one third of the unemployed receive social support; in relation to the so-called "requalification" of social security - and I say this here to former Minister Mota Soares who will probably be attending the meeting through the Parliament Canal - sent two presidents of child and youth protection committees at risk. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, after several years of discussing State budgets for social support, we note as positive that today we are discussing strengthening social support in the fight against poverty, and that is what it really costs the PSD and the CDS. What really costs them is that we are discussing rights and not discussing charity. That is, indeed, what it costs to the right! Mr Minister, although limited in scope, we believe that these measures respond to dramatic social problems and that, in some areas where we have been working, it is possible to go further, in particular by strengthening and extending the family allowance, supporting the elderly and social unemployment benefit. Mr Minister, this budget has limitations and inadequacies, but proves that it is worth fighting. All those who, over the past four years, have fought so much to defend rights and demand dignity know well that what costs the PSD and CDS is the possibility of recovering rights that they wanted to be liquidated forever. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u274	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is inconceivable. This debate is indispensable because today we can say that this budget, particularly in social security, can be called « Budget of not cutting EUR 600 million in paid pensions ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u276	This is the budget for not cutting paid pensions, because, strictly speaking, we have a majority in this Parliament that allows pensioners today to look with confidence at what they receive every month, strengthening the confidence that the Portuguese economy will grow, create jobs and, with that job, will have new social security contributions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget also allows us to look at another interesting, perhaps curious aspect. The nominal deficit presented by this Budget Bill is 2, 2 % and that of the Stability Programme submitted by the previous Government was 1, 8 %. The difference between the structural balances presented is around 0, 3 %. To a large extent, the difference is in these 600 million euros that are not cut in this budget and that the PSD and CDS, during two days of debate, were not able to clarify whether they had an alternative or not and how they would make that cut. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore missed a good opportunity to have in this Parliament a full clarification of how they would cut the pension payments. I cannot fail to make a reference to Mr Duarte Pacheco's speech and later to Mr Luís Campos Ferreira's speech. In particular, Mr Duarte Pacheco said that it seems that this budget does not have « father ». Mr. Deputies, in good rigour, the one who got orphaned was the courting of pensions, because he no longer has the government to execute it. This is the objective reality of this Budget! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, the court presented in the Stability Programme was, strictly speaking, an inevitability for those who followed an income reduction policy. If we reduce wages, if we reduce pensions, if we increase unemployment, if we increase structural unemployment and reduce potential GDP, if we continuously reduce opportunities for the development of business and job creation, social security is not sustainable, of course it is not sustainable. Nothing is sustainable without creating wealth and creating jobs. Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila said recently that what protects the social state is necessarily not having a broken state. But a failed democracy is a democracy that transforms social rights into charity and assistanceism, and this bench will not allow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has been four years of transformation of rights into welfareism, rights into charity, failing democracy because there is no true freedom without social rights. A democracy without social rights is a diminished democracy, which has no rights, and those with fewer incomes do not have the opportunity to choose freely, and this is not admissible in a rule of law. A failed social security is certainly a way to dictatorships, but a charitable system is, at the same time, a castrated democracy. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the right track: more employment, more average income that can bring more contributions and more fight against tax evasion and fraud.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u277	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u278	The opposition benches referred to the increase in revenue. In part, the Minister has already given the answer here: the increase in revenue is in line with what has happened until today, even in 2016. But combating tax evasion and fraud is a fundamental pillar that we must develop in order to consolidate social security revenues. Mr Minister, I would like to leave this question to you: what measures, initiatives are planned to consolidate social security revenues, in particular in combating avoidance and fraud in social contributions? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u279	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, José António Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u280	Mr President, Mr Lobo d’Ávila, to discuss social security today, in these days when we are discussing the State Budget for 2016, whether or not you want Mr, is to discuss the two major options that were put for this year of 2016 with regard to social security. And they have already been identified here with all clarity. The options on the table were as follows: either a cut, in any way, to use expressions from the previous government, in the pensions of the contribution system, or not to do so and, on the contrary, re-implement a pension updating policy. The honourable Member has made citations. I could also quote, many citations, from members of the former Government, in fact from the party you are part of, explaining how they would achieve this reduction in the pension system. If my memory does not fail — and I am quoting a Mr Secretary of State — 487 million euros would be cut through the contribution of sustainability, a bit more of an increase in TSU, a bit more of an increase in VAT, which would give the 600 million euros. The Constitutional Court said no and you came here and said: "We keep the 600 million. We do not know how, but for all purposes imagine that it was as we had proposed and that the Constitutional Court did not leave.' There is great seriousness in the exercise of policy to say that a cut of EUR 600 million will be made over the pension system, of the incomes of older people, without explaining how and without saying what the consequences will be! That is the debate that is on the table today, and you will never be able to run away from it. On minimum pensions, Mr President, I am very pleased to discuss this issue, because you have created mystification over these years — mistification is the only name that happens to me — the increase in minimum pensions, when they only increased a minority percentage: 35 % of the minimum pensions of the contribution scheme. All the others above the 270 € have been frozen all these years. [[PSD protests.]] And the overall financial volume for the increase in pensions led by your government has fluctuated between negative values and at most EUR 30 million. Why negative values? Because part of the EUR 30 million that was intended for minimum pensions, those that are far from the poverty line, was withdrawn from the solidarity supplement for the elderly, who are also pensioners. You took the pensioners to give to others and, with this, they were making the flower of increasing the minimum pensions of the contribution scheme up to 15 years, plus social and rural pensions. Mr President, the increase in the amount of pensions allocated by this Government in this budget is twice as much as EUR 30 million in the best year you have had. It's double! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to inflation, the Government's option was to keep the law in force, which corrects pensions for inflation verified and not for any inflation estimate. If inflation in this year of 2016 is 1, 5 %, certainly all pensioners, not up to €260 but up to €628, will have their pension updated and will not lose purchasing power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And on the contributions, Mr President, I now freeze these statements because when you see the social security account, you will find that they are perfectly correct, because you are well below the growth value of contributions and contributions, which were not 4 %, but 6 %, as is already officially recognised since 2015 data already exist. You were left with more than one percentage point below your forecast. I challenge - and now I can do - every month, contrary to the time when you were ruling, when the information was a little more angry - to confirm whether the value of the contributions is growing to 5 % or not, as is the case, precisely at this time. Mrs Rita Rato, in fact, I fully agree with you when she says that strengthening social support is only part of economic recovery. But it's a part that has not only a symbolic value. That's why I said recently that I'm not talking about social sensitivity, I'm talking about social policies and they have to be evaluated for their intrinsic value. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not a matter of sensitivity, it is a question of political choice, of citizenship choice, and support for social minimums, as we have done in this Budget, is undoubtedly a priority, since the previous policy, as has already been said, pushed more than 60 000 children out of the minimum social support scheme. Therefore, agreeing with you, there is more than social support. These continue to be absolutely decisive and we all hope that this has been a first step in building a strict, demanding social protection system, but not only financially demanding, which is also demanding from the point of view of public policies and social policies. Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, the right, in view of the increase in contributions in line with nominal GDP, with the strengthening of the growth resulting from the change in the national minimum wage, refuses that it is possible to add to this value a recovery of the effectiveness of the system which will be around EUR 200 million. We believe and we know that this is possible, and we have already indicated some of the instruments. One of them is a new model of contributing declarations that prevents the oscillation and the avoidance of contributions. I do not have time now to technically explain this model, but he — and I say with all seriousness, has not been invented by us now, has been developed over the years in the social security system, it is a shame that it has been so slow — will allow a more friendly system for companies and more rigorous from the point of view of charges. Just as a more agile debt recovery system can benefit from economic recovery and prevent snowball escalation from debt to social security. These two are central instruments for a policy that can also be demanding as far as contributions are concerned. Because of the system's shortcomings, many million euros of undue benefits are still paid, practically non-recoverable. This must have an end, because it causes a perversion into the system and because it cannot then be practically impossible to recover a beneficiary of the unemployment benefit if the State, due to the deficiency of its system, has paid it one month more than the unemployment benefit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u281	Mr. Minister, there are still two Mr. Members registered to request clarification, Mr President. Members Jorge Falcato, of the Left Block, and Diana Ferreira, of the PCP. Mr. Jorge Falcato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister acknowledged, in his initial speech, that the steps taken in the area of disability were insufficient. Let me insist on an issue which I think is fundamental, which is the income of the poorest people, who have as their only source of income the vital monthly allowance or the social disability pension. We speak of 13 000 people who have 176 € per month, more than 40 000 who have to live with 201 € per month. These people exist, they're not numbers, I know a lot. And, as I said in the election campaign, the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, with these pensions, these people do not live, survive — and they survive very badly, I would say. These people exist and, to be entitled, for example, to social pensions, they cannot have incomes greater than € 167 per month. And -- don't worry! — if you marry someone who earns more than 250 €, you lose the right to a pension. It is sad, but the Portuguese state still believes that a couple can live with 250 € monthly. It is clear that much needs to be done in the redefinition of social benefits in the area of disability. The single provision, proposed by the Government, can be a solution. There we will be to discuss it and contribute to meet the needs of people with disabilities. The problem is that while studying and discussing the single benefit, these people still have to live with an income that does not reach half the level of poverty threshold. This budget that we will approve guarantees the elderly, and very well, by strengthening the solidarity complement, sufficient incomes to get out of the poverty in which they are found. Why not, while studying definitive solutions, extend this solidarity to people with disabilities in the same situation? We have the discussion in the specialty to find solutions, I hope. I look forward to thousands of disabled people and their families. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u283	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Minister, were PSD and CDS today in the Government and we would not be discussing the increase in social benefits but, yes, their cut, as happened, in the State budgets of their authorship, whose common denominator was exactly to cut — to cut wages, to cut pensions, to cut social benefits, to cut rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u285	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u286	For this reason, we point to the positive increase in family allowance and the increase in the solidarity supplement for the elderly, although we understand that it is possible and necessary to go further in these social benefits as well as in the social unemployment allowance. And, with regard to pensions, Mr Minister, we believe that its valuation is necessarily due to the increase in its real value and not only to the thawing of the updating mechanism. We must not fail to mention here that people with disabilities and their families have in fact been the most affected by the policy of loss of rights, income and social benefits, which has been carried out over the past four years by the PSD Government and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u287	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u288	And in this same area we must not fail to point out the progress made in the special disability pension for which this House, with the votes against the PSD and the CDS, re-listed the list of disabled diseases and withdrew the reprehensible premise that it envisaged, for the allocation of this benefit, the clinical forecast of these people to be in a state of dependence or death within three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u289	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u290	This same Assembly of the Republic, with the votes against the PSD and the CDS, decided to extend the allocation of this benefit to people with rare diseases, which is a significant progress in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u292	Mr Minister, we also note as positive the increase in third-party assistance allowance, which, although insufficient, is still a step towards improving the living conditions of disabled people and their families, and we also note that the expansion of disability expenditure deductions within the IRS is positive. With regard to the single provision, proposed in this State budget, we would like to say that, regardless of the model that is found, this provision should, yes, correspond to the more support and dignity in the lives of people with disabilities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u293	Mr Minister, the inclusion of persons with disabilities must correspond, in concrete life and day-to-day, to what is enshrined in various legal diplomas, and must also be based on an intervention that must be transversal and on the guarantee of a set of fundamental rights. It is therefore essential to implement measures guaranteeing the right of these people to a dignified and independent life. And it is precisely in this sense that it was important to know what priority measures for the government and what it intends to implement immediately. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u294	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u295	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Jorge Falcato and Mr Diana Ferreira, I will focus on the issues that both have raised about the measures aimed at people with disabilities. I associate myself with the work that has been done in the Assembly of the Republic with regard to disability pensions and, like the Members. Members, I believe that the steps taken in social policies concerning people with disabilities are still insufficient. I myself said it is the most fragile area of our social protection system. The ambition we should have is relatively simple: making it possible for all people with disabilities to have an income that places them above the poverty line. This is a clear, simple goal, but must be constructed in a demanding way from the point of view of the system, so that it is possible to reconcile in the same provision two essential rights for people with disabilities: the right to work and the right to social protection. It is not technically an easy provision that combines these two rights — on the contrary, for example, the solidarity complement for the elderly, which is intended for people who are already outside the labour market — but we count on the effort of our banks to build, with this triple objective (income, social protection, but also the right to work) a model that is sustainable, effective, rigorous, but that fully meets the goal that we all have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u296	This period of requests for clarification to the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security will therefore be completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u297	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u298	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u299	Madam President, it is to deliver a document to the Bureau. This is page 39 of the Stability Programme, which has so many times been cited in this debate and erroneously. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u300	Now, we cannot continue to accept that the government insists on what is not true. What is mentioned on page 39 of the Stability Programme is essentially two things. It is said in the document that, in order to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, solutions must be found either through revenue or through expenditure and that this is done on a basis of great national consensus. What we understand is that the government has to defend its policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u301	Madam President, this is not an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u302	... you have to defend your options and it's not worth being, in a lying way,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u303	You are clear, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u304	... insistently lying, saying what is not in the document.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u305	Mr, you may have the document distributed. We will continue with the interventions. For an intervention, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u306	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr. and Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The proposal for the State Budget, which we are discussing today, shows a new vision for Portuguese society and has as a clear mark the recovery of Portuguese confidence in the National Health Service ( SNS ). The policies to be adopted aim at revitalizing and recovering the performance of the SNS, strengthening equity in the access and quality of the services provided. The State Budget for 2016 is a responsible budget that meets the commitments that the Government has made with the Portuguese regarding its right to health protection. Although aware of the limitations still existing, the Government clearly assumes its determination to leave no one behind, guaranteeing everyone access to a dignified life and with full right to health. This is a constitutional budget. unlike the right, in health matters, this budget does not forget the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, where in its article 64. the, was written: « Everyone has the right to health protection and the duty to defend and promote. Do not keep on seeking. ” That is also why this is a different State budget, which shows that there is an alternative in health policy, which fulfils the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and which respects the rights of citizens. It is a different budget because it foresees the reduction of the total amount of moderate rates up to 24 %, ending with the policy followed by the previous Executive, which increased them to values that removed patients from the service and worked as a real barrier in access to care. It is a different budget, because it sets a reachable goal, to reduce by 20% the number of users without a family doctor, unlike the previous majority who promised a family doctor for all and finished their mandates leaving more than 1 million Portuguese without a family doctor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a different budget, because it foresees the gradual introduction of the user's freedom of choice principle, i.e., each user can choose, within the SNS, and by indication of his family doctor, which the hospital in which he intends to be attended, where the waiting time is shorter, making the funding accompany the patient and ensuring the earliest response to whom he needs, regardless of his place of residence. It is a different budget, because it foresees the creation of responsibilities centres integrated in hospitals, with a view to improving the care response, clinical effectiveness and the motivation of the teams. It is a different budget, because it creates an effective system in the uptake of retired doctors, allowing them to return to the service, accumulating the pension with 75 % of the remuneration corresponding to that which they took at the time of the transition to retirement, contrary to the previous policy that saved SNS doctors and motivated them to work in private. It is also a different budget, because it reinforces the care provided in health centres, creating new services, as in the area of visual and oral health, as well as allows the existence of new responses to users in areas such as psychology, nutrition, rehabilitation medicine, where patients can also perform less complex tests, such as clinical analyses or radiology tests, which often unnecessarily motivate the goings to emergencies and hospitals. It is also a different budget because it promotes the creation of reference centres, recognized as the highest exponent of competences in the provision of high quality health care, in clinical situations that require a concentration of highly differentiated technical resources capable of conducting postgraduate training and scientific research in their respective medical areas. This is a different budget because it allows for changes in the transport of non-emergency patients, reducing user charges, taking into account their clinical condition and economic situation. It is also a different budget, because it attaches primary importance to supporting people in a dependent situation, through a new impetus in continuing care, which have been so devalued, and seeking the integration of responses with local social networks and valuing the fundamental role of informal caregivers. It is also a different budget because it adopts policies of the medicine that strengthen the sustainability of the SNS by promoting investment and access to innovation, the rational use of medicines, the evaluation of health technologies, the approximation of community pharmacies to public service and the implementation of a strategic plan to promote the collection of blood and the use of plasma. Finally, this budget also provides for the extension of the ADSE beneficiary base to spouses and children up to the age of 30 and to all workers in the state business sector and other public entities. This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, an Budget that values and encourages health professionals through the replacement of their incomes, the dignity of their working conditions and respect for their fair expectations of professional development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is, in short, a left-wing budget, inspired by principles and values that put people first. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want a National Health Service re-qualified, modern and efficient. The modernisation of the SNS also involves simplifying, deburocrating and strengthening transparency. The creation of the new SNS portal deserves to be highlighted by the signal of accountability and information sharing, making it more demanding and transparent the management of times and waiting lists. The transformation of the Health 24 line into an integrated contact centre focused on the needs of the citizen, as well as, within the Simplex program, the development of the Electronic Health Registry, an indispensable tool for managing access with efficiency, equity and quality, also represent important signs of the development and modernization of the SNS. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years, the National Health Service has been exposed to a very adverse context, which has greatly compromised its development and its ability to respond. The PSD/CDS governments followed a policy of cuts without criteria, without balance and without social justice. This government, on the contrary, defined as a priority line of health policy the recovery of Portuguese confidence in its National Health Service. We are sure that, in this political and budgetary framework, we will be able to develop mechanisms that put the citizen at the centre of the system and reduce inequalities. We believe that with this Budget and these health policies, the Portuguese will meet with the SNS in respect of their rights, thus contributing to reducing inequalities between citizens in access to health. The National Health Service is also an indispensable instrument for the construction of a more coherent and supportive country. This budget is a firm step in that direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u307	Mr President, you have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Luísa Salgueiro on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u308	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, I know that I will tell you something that will startle you very much. Despite everything he has said, see where we consider this Budget, in the field of health, to be a bad budget. And it is a bad budget in political, social and economic terms, for the various reasons that have already been brought up by my bench during these two days. But, honourable Member, the questions I would like to ask you about the fact that this is a bad budget in technical terms. And, on this point, which I think is the point of this debate today, I would like you to clarify a few questions. Madam Member, I would like to know, for example, where the planned increase of EUR 90 million is covered by this budget, in particular as regards the consumption of medicines and innovation. In the use of complementary diagnostic means, it provides for an increase of 20 million; in the continuous care network, it provides for an increase of 30 million; in the passage of the USF (family health units) from model A to B, it provides for an increase of 100 million; in the replacement of the four holidays, for example, an increase of 30 million. Only here, Mrs Deputies, do we have EUR 180 million that, in our view, are not covered by any transfer in this State budget. We do not even raise the question of the replacement of wages, which is 90 million, and the application of the 35 hour schedule, which is more than 200 million. That is to say, it is another 290 million that no one knows very well how they will be covered by this State budget. Madam Member, for whom, like the PS, the PS was saying that the PSD was investing in the SNS, which was dismantling the SNS and that this Budget would now bring about the turn of austerity, we have a variation of more than 45 million in this Budget. But if we withdraw the 20 million of the moderate rates, we have only here a reduction and, even considering inflation, see there, Mrs Deputy, which, after all, the total of the SNS has a negative growth. And we're not talking less than 90 million, in terms of transfer, to hospitals and health centers, those hospitals and health centers that the PS both defended that they had to have more money, that they had to have more budget. Madam Member, what the PS wouldn't say if this were our budget! As for what you have just said about the extension of ADSE to the spouses of beneficiaries, children up to 30 years old and workers in the state business sector, it seems good to us. What matters is where is the calculation of this impact on the SNS. Like VV. Ex.s predict growth equal to 2015 and where this is covered by your State Budget. Perhaps it is also important here to take care of this. Mrs Depute, for whom, as you have said, the PSD has dismantled, disinvested in the SNS, I inform you that yesterday a scientific study of the Health Regulatory Entity and the National Health Assessment System ( SINAS ) that states that the reality demonstrates exactly the opposite of what Mrs Depute has just said: of the 161 health care providers, among which 64 hospitals in the public sector, are very well evaluated. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u309	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u310	Madam President, Mrs Angela Guerra, I confess that I was not strictly surprised at anything, contrary to what I calculated, with your intervention and your questions, which were even very predictable. I didn't know what the questions would be. What I know is that the PSD board is going to hold on to numbers, in a kind of specialty discussion, which is the one we're going to have here for five hours next week.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u311	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u312	But it is customary, the recurrent remedy is always that. I would, however, like to call on the honourable Member for another type of analysis. In the balance sheet of the policy that both defended and defended, we could make a brief visit through the various areas of the services and see how we are in primary health care, which is the analysis that makes of the family doctors who have reached the Service, how many users are there right now, according to the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ). The honourable Member has brought these reports that we are going to examine, but he could also have brought other reports that are available online and that say exactly the opposite of what he has defended here. We'd like you to have done here an analysis that was more to meet people's needs. That's not what happened, but it doesn't surprise us. In fact, the honourable Member had an attitude of absolute credibility in the numbers that were presented to her by the dual Paul Macedo and Leal da Costa, but from this credibility she became an absolute skepticism. Since we are at the heart of citations of songs, let me remind you of what Sérgio Godinho sang in the music O Coro das Vellas :« (...) salute, I have to give and sell. I do not need a minister to have (...) ». It is unfortunate, Madam Member, because we have a minister and very competent, even if this causes you some disease! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u313	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u314	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, Ladies and gentlemen : The State Budget for 2016 represents a turn of page in austerity. Place a final point in the income cut. But it also represents a turning point when proposing a new strategy of growth and competitiveness. The fiscal and economic adjustment of recent years has been marked by a reduction in wages and precarious employment. We now need to look again at structural solutions in the economy that respond to business problems and move forward with reforms that promote investment, productivity growth and the enhancement of national products. Increased productivity is made with effort. Investment in education is made in training, employment policies that value people, a policy of science, technology and knowledge transfer, which strengthens the innovation capacity of Portuguese companies. In recent years, the economic and financial crisis has entailed a very significant retreat from investment, which has fallen more than 30 % and is still at lower levels than in the past two decades. Companies wishing to invest in Portugal are still struggling with constraints that need to be resolved. The companies that want to invest in Portugal also tell us that the revival of internal demand is an essential factor for their confidence. This is also why this is a confidence budget, a business-friendly budget, an investment recovery budget. There is only investment with confidence and trust only when companies see the market grow by more than 90 % of Portuguese companies, the first market, the most important market, the internal market, the national market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Companies wishing to invest in Portugal are still struggling with constraints, which need to be resolved; difficulties in financing and capitalisation; bureaucratic and administrative obstacles, which are urgent to remove; challenges to entry into new markets; and in innovation, which is important to support. The high level of indebtedness of companies is a barrier to their growth, it is a barrier to productive investment. That is why we have clearly defined the financing and capitalisation of companies as a priority. We launched Plan 100 and in 100 days we are putting EUR 100 million of European funds at the service of our companies, accelerating the arrival of funds to companies that want to invest. We have already brought EUR 80 million to the companies and we will complete the 100 days with the 110 million to the companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is an effort to accelerate the implementation of the incentives that must continue throughout this year and throughout our mandate. We are also launching a set of financial and capitalisation instruments co-financed by the European funds within Portugal 2020. These are new instruments, such as the Capital and Almost Fund Capital, risk capital strengthening instrument and guarantee lines which will, as a whole, finance investments up to EUR 1500 million in the area of permanent capital, foreign capital and guarantees. We want Portuguese companies to invest and we want them to do so with a stronger capital structure. We will also create a tourism fund that will enable companies in this sector to invest and increase the value of national supply in this important sector of the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These instruments are being accompanied by the Mission Structure for Business Capitalization, which we created in the first month of this government, a structure that will still have to present during 1. the 2016 semester, concrete measures of a financial and fiscal nature that promote the greatest balance in the financial structure of Portuguese companies, which promote instruments that help companies not only finance themselves better but also promote incentives to their capitalisation. These measures create the basis for companies to finance themselves less dependent on banking credit and promote more sustained investment. Strengthening capitalisation and innovation is particularly important for companies wishing to assert themselves in external markets. Only with a stronger capital structure is it possible to deal with fewer risks for companies the uncertainty that is always present in innovation processes and also in internationalisation processes. Internationalization is a priority for this government. Portuguese exports have seen a significant increase in the last decade, a growth that reversed the stagnation of the early century. This growth was achieved by companies that invested, knew how to value their workers and also improve their technological and innovation capacity. Today, some claim that this growth resulted mainly from the compression of domestic demand and that it was the compression of domestic demand that forced companies to turn it into the external market. These are the ones who are concerned about the recovery of income and the effect of the growth of domestic demand due to the alleged effects it will have on exports. In our view, this is a false issue that is part of a wrong analysis. The export growth of Portuguese companies has been going through the entire decade, resisting the international crisis and even the problems caused by the adjustment programme to finance companies. Portuguese exports did not accelerate by reducing domestic demand from the adjustment programme. Portuguese exports continued to grow, but grew to a more moderate rate. In the last 10 years, the four years of greatest export growth were 2006, 2007, 2010 and 2011 — all years before the adjustment programme. The periods of greater compression of domestic demand coincided with a decrease in the rate of export growth and not with its acceleration. For example, 2012 was the year of the biggest reduction in domestic demand and was one of the years, taking into account the last 10 years, in which there was the weakest growth in exports. The years 2015 and 2016 appear as positive years, in which at the same time there is an increase in domestic demand and good export growth prospects. Export growth occurs and can happen in parallel with domestic demand growth. There is no contradiction in this aspect. Portugal has a strong and resilient export sector which we want to continue to support with economic diplomacy, with instruments supporting internationalisation and with the mobilization of Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is very important to build on what has been done in the last decade and to continue to promote the increase in exports of greater incorporation of national value. Similarly, we remain committed to attracting foreign direct investment, in particular projects that create jobs and attract new skills for Portugal. This Government has taken possession of three months and has since seen the implementation, launch and inauguration of important investments in such diverse sectors as tourism, telecommunications, aeronautics and shared services, among other examples of foreign investment in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These investments show that international companies maintain confidence in the Portuguese economy and in the potential of our country as a basis for producing for the world. Another of the priorities of the current government is to promote innovation and technological improvement in our industry. Portugal has seen a remarkable development in the last two decades. Today, it has the most well-prepared generation ever and has several universities that are among the best 500 in the world. It's a reason for pride and an asset we have to value. This is what we want, it is to mobilize this capacity and transform more knowledge into innovation and economic growth, mobilizing companies, universities, technological centres, state laboratories and business associations in this regard. We are therefore creating incentives and support for strengthening the link between companies and universities, a work that we are developing with the Ministry of Science. We are also strengthening funding for technological centres, and to this end we will set up a fund for strengthening these centres and for supporting, training and innovation of companies. We are also facilitating the transfer of knowledge and technology through a programme of mobility of researchers from universities, technological centres and companies. It is also important to support the digitisation of industry, entrepreneurship and startups, taking advantage of the potential of new generations, creating more value and combating young unemployment. We are working to strengthen the collaboration networks between the various institutions that promote entrepreneurship, we are mobilizing support and strengthening financial and fiscal instruments to change the incentives for these new technological companies and we are also attracting and consolidating international events, including the Summit Web or the Trojan Horse, which come to Portugal this year and we have fought to maintain in our country. Finally, we are also working at the level of simplification and administrative modernization with a direct impact on business activity and on the attractiveness of our country as an investment destination. Today, Portugal leads the list of countries where it is easier to open a company. But in many areas there is still much to be done. Recently, a study that places Portugal as the 4. the country in the world where companies spend more time on tax matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u315	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u316	Cases of delay and delay in investment processes continue to occur. There is a lot of effort and a lot of work to do in this area, which is an area in which we have to engage. We are listening to companies and business associations and we are working with the Ministry of Administrative Modernization, because only with the involvement of everyone, whether in the public sector or in private, will it be possible to overcome the challenge that Portugal and the Portuguese face. This is a work that requires the motivation and mobilization of the Public Administration and the contribution we are having from business associations and companies in identifying constraints, identifying points that need to be changed to improve business life and reducing context costs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the same way that it is not for the State to replace companies, neither is it for the companies to replace the State. It is up to companies to invest, produce and create jobs and the State to promote social justice, reduce barriers to businesses, strengthen the business environment, improve qualification, ensure investment in science and support for innovation, as is done in Portugal, as is done in all developed countries. In conclusion, I just wanted to welcome and associate myself with the Left Block initiative, which will allow the social tariff to be a real realization for many thousands of families, who, having this right, could not achieve it. It is an initiative that we applaud and support now. Growth and competitiveness are made with everyone and taking advantage of the contribution of all, making use of the talent of the most qualified generation ever, which we want to stay in Portugal, is made with companies, is done with universities and politicians, is done with the best of public institutions and has to result in improving living conditions for all Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u317	Mr Minister, the Bureau has just registered to request clarification from Members of the CFP, PS, PS, CDS-PP, BE and Greens. In the meantime, the Bureau received the indication that the Minister intends to respond together. Question : Is this intention maintained?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u318	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u319	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u320	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, there are issues in this discussion that are under discussion and there are others that we are not discussing. And for great disgust of the PSD and the CDS-PP we are not discussing a State budget to aggravate and deepen that model of exploitation and impoverishment of a pseudo-competitiveness based on the crushing of wages, rights, living conditions of workers. For the great disappointment of the PSD and the CDS-PP, we are not here discussing the extension of tax benefits to large economic groups or ignoring structural factors for development, growth and employment. And we are not doing this debate because the Portuguese have said enough! », they rejected these policies and defeated the PSD government / CDS-PP, and so here we are continuing the work and the struggle for the reconstruction of hope. in this budget debate we do not proclaim that supposed investment which, after all, has translated, in simple and simple, to the sale of assets and national resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u321	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u322	We still remember those who propagated the investors who had to arrive, forcing the Portuguese, at the same time, from an unprecedented wave of emigration. And here we reaffirm our fight so that they can come back quickly and have the right to the future in their own country. A budget that restores wages, reforms and pensions, which recovers social benefits and lowers labour taxes is not just a budget that meets the Constitution — which is not too little! — It is also a Budget that restores purchasing power, dynamizes the internal market and constitutes a factor of hope and trust for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We want to raise, Mr Minister, the crucial issue of national production, the need to replace imports by national production and stop replacing imports by stagnation, consumption breaks and hunger — which has happened in recent years! — and the need to support the exporting productive sectors and not only. We want to alert you to the urgent need to promote investment and, from the outset, public investment, to reverse this path of destruction of productive capacity that has been tracked so far. We want to remember our position of concern and criticism, the same as we had in the past in relation to increases in the tax burden on fuels. It is the same position that we stated one and two years ago when the majority of PSD/CDS then increased indirect taxes, increased the tax burden on fuels—which now says to reject—on restoration, with the increase in VAT on restoration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u323	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u324	We would like to remind you of our concern about the opportunity that the current context for reducing fuel prices, particularly oil, would enable the economy to relaunch investment possibilities. in the same way, here too, we consider the urgent need to bring in and apply Community funds on the ground, so that these Community funds are effectively a factor of investment and development rather than of the eternity of dependence. Mr Minister, we are leaving these questions because we believe that it is indeed necessary to move further, taking more steps, and not slowing down this path of change which the Portuguese as a whole demanded for Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u325	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u326	Madam President, Mr. Minister of Economics, we have found a depressed country,... [[And we found a destroyed country!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u327	... where companies do not invest, where families pass through needs, where young people flee the country and where the elderly are desperate. Therefore, Minister for Economic Affairs, this Budget is a fundamental part of printing a change in the country. For this, what is being done in this budget must be done: to place the economy at the heart of the political debate. But above all, we must reverse the blackout that the right has caused to the economic system over the past four years. In fact, when we make an effort, a great effort to remember what the right has done about the economy in Portugal, we remember, above all, of two things, the first of them is a minister who focused all his speech on defending the internationalization of cream pastel. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] Now, we think that the cream pastel is indeed a very important gastronomic heritage, but it is not enough to develop the Portuguese economy for 10 million inhabitants. But we remind ourselves of something else, we are reminded of another minister who has privatised 'the hammer', who are now having the effects that we all know. Leaving this aside, Minister for Economic Affairs, let us really see what happened. According to the PSD / CDS and based - a little on the encyclopedia that was the book of Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, never fulfilled promises, in which the focus of economic growth was impoverishment by reducing the cost of work, the right always believed that it would increase the competitiveness of companies and push, unbridledly, by export. All the pressure for economic growth was placed on external demand. We have abandoned companies, productivity, the dynamisation of competitiveness factors, which Mr Minister spoke about, such as innovation, research, development, internationalisation and the qualification of workers. We would be competitive, said the right, with a low cost of work. Well, that approach failed! And for this, it is enough to look in detail at what happened in the last year when the PSD/CDS government acted alone, ruled alone in 2014. In 2014 they made a forecast — a forecast that failed because they had two corrective budgets, to vary — a GDP of 1, 8 % growth, with the negative contribution of domestic demand and a positive contribution from external demand. When we looked into reality, the shock was another. In other words, when we look at reality, what really happened was that GDP actually grew, not 1, 8 %, but up to 1, 9 %, but it was pure coincidence, because it grew 1, 9 % not driven by external demand, as they said, that it had a negative but driven by domestic demand, which had a positive contribution. This is obviously due to the Constitutional Court, as everyone knows. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u328	Therefore, even with two Reforming Budgets, all objectives, including those of growth and also those of the budget deficit, which remained at 7, 2 %. But the option of impoverishment, having not succeeded in consolidating public accounts, nor in economic growth, as it has been shown, was not neutral for the Portuguese. In 2014, Mrs. Members, the reduction in labour costs was 2, 8 % in Portugal, compared with 1, 8 % increase in the rest of Europe, in average terms. However, despite this cost reduction effect, it did not have the expected impact on the contribution to economic growth, even if it had, they noticed, impact on some exports, and they are not some exports that deserve weighting. At that time, the PSD/CDS government inaugurated something else with great lightning, which was the observed growth of gold exports. Surprise yourself, Mr. Members: between 2011 and 2014, the country exported almost EUR 2000 million in gold! In fact, we are not a gold-producing country, we all know that, but, Minister of Economy, they took everything away from the Portuguese! They took everything away from the Portuguese and only the rings remained. And so it only left the Portuguese to sell what was left to them, to sell everything in order to eventually meet their needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u329	It was a gold mine!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u330	In addition to this phenomenon, we saw the appearance of about 5500 gold trade stores, which were, of course, the mirror of the misfortune that the PSD and CDS had installed in Portugal. The needs of the Portuguese were so many that they sold everything, of course, sold whole lives of memories.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u331	It was a gold mine!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u332	But if the impoverishment programmed by the Portuguese right generated this unusual phenomenon of being a large exporter of gold at the international level, the options to promote exports, which was the Holy Grail of this right-wing government, were not even rational and were even contradictory, see the absurd increase in the VAT of restoration. The increase in the VAT of restoration has, of course, called into question a key sector, the tourism sector, which is by chance one of the main Portuguese exports. To finish this role of examples and absurd and even contradictory options, let me remind you of a final outcome: in the midst of all these failures, Minister Pires de Lima recalled that there were companies and that these were fundamental to economic development. there they invented something that was the Innovation Valley. The Innovation Valley was presented with pump and circumstances and with a budget, imagine, of 2, 5 million euros! I repeat, 2, 5 million euros! Result: worse the amendment than the sound. False expectations have emerged and, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing worse for the economy than creating negative expectations. They cancelled the program and left thousands, I repeat, thousands of companies with negative expectations and obviously frustrated with the same program. But, Mr Minister, as the people say, 'past waters do not move mills'. The bet of this State budget is to put the economy where it should be and put companies to create wealth and employment. To this end, we need to introduce confidence in entrepreneurs and promote the competitiveness of companies, by boosting competitiveness factors and increasing productivity. I therefore ask you, Minister: what measures will be privileged in this very important effort for the Portuguese economy? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u333	Mr Sérgio Azevedo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u334	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, on two days of debate in this State budget, with many questions and very few answers from the Government, it is clear that there is no new time, a change in course or a turn from page that denies an inscapable truth: this is indeed a bad budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u335	And if the Socialist Party Member thinks he has found a depressed country, imagine what we found when we arrived at the government, because of the responsibility of the former Socialist Party government : we have found a broken country. This is the big difference, Member of the Commission. After the elections, in the distant month of October, you were not satisfied that you had not managed to convince the Portuguese parties to the left with the parties, but inevitably disastrous conjugation. The best of two worlds: pledges of loyalty to the budget treaty and international commitments and an incomparable euphoria of reductions and reversals, but unable to withstand this budget there. The strategy is very simple: to make time, to survive as long as possible, not to govern, but above all not to let others rule, to revive the 2002 swamp and the 2011 bankruptcy. This has been a debate with many singularities, a lot of fantasy and, above all, many omissions. But one thing must be demystified so that it is quite clear, which is the following: contrary to what they are saying, this is not only your Budget as it is to you, and only you, who is responsible not only for approving how to assume the political consequences of the effect it will have on people's lives. Well, as you have seen throughout this debate, you can accuse the right, hold the right, draw attention to the right. The problem, Minister, is that it is no longer the right that governs, and the jury on such a 'new time' will have to take effect. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a very simple and very direct question. on one of the boundaries that government members made on the State Budget with the Socialist Party's basic militia, Mr. Minister was in Braga. Now, I bring with me a cut from the newspaper Diário do Minho that says Minister of Economics does not exclude the need to cut a subsidy. In April, the Eurogroup expects a set of measures from this Government — and according to Mr Minister, « (...) we will have to be very attentive to the implementation of the budget, to see whether the targets we are proposing will allow the level of balance of the public accounts we propose to reach at the end of the year» — and how, in this debate of two days, neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Finance wanted or knew how to answer the number of questions asked by my Parliamentary board, I ask you, Ex., what measures the Government intends to submit to the Eurogroup and whether this measure in particular, the need for the exclusion of a court of a subsidy, is one that could come into force in such a plan b, which none of you have ever been able to explain. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u336	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u337	Mr President, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, we have once again heard Mr Minister withholding the export growth data of recent years, defending and registering the inheritance of a government of José Socrates. The problem, Minister, of this criticism is not to be unfair but, above all, misdirected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u338	With this you are trying to criticize the previous government, not realizing that it is indeed saying badly of those who invest in Portugal, of those who work in Portugal,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u339	... of economic agents, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who actually managed to help Portugal grow in a very difficult time. Very curiously, Mr. Minister talks about 2012, 2013, 2014 and does not speak of the most recent data known today, which are the 2015 data, which say, according to the Banco de Portugal, that Portugal had a growth in exports of goods and services of 4, 7 %, 1, 5 percentage points above imports, leaving the export coverage rate by imports above 100 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u340	Exports in previous years fell by 40 %! Today's data!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u341	And that, without a doubt, is the merit of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and workers in Portugal, and what they deserved was a word of praise from the Minister of Economics and not a criticism, which, above all, is a misdirected criticism. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But, Minister, we know for a long time that the Minister has been obsessed with this! Until I remember the time when Mr. Minister wrote, and I quote, "Can you ask where are the signs of growth model change from the previous period? » — once again the defense of the Eng.o José Socrates government — «Is anyone an illusion that growth based only on domestic demand is sustainable? And the answer is not encouraging. », end of citation. Of course, the answer is not encouraging, Minister, the problem is that the answer this State budget gives to investment is zero! The only answer that this State budget has is in domestic demand and, if there is any doubt, read the opinion of the social partners who say that there are no investment measures in this budget, thus making the government a harsh criticism. Mr Minister, I will ask you a question, the 'teaching of cotton'. We have indicators that 2015 will have been the best year for the contractual investment in Portugal, in which AICEP has a great role. We know of many investments that were made in this regard in 2015. I would like the Minister to tell me five investments above EUR 30 million which, with your responsibility, are coming to Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u342	And don't tell me about the Web Summit, Mr Minister, because the Web Summit is worth it, and here I recognize the previous government and the City Hall of Lisbon, it is certainly not worth it or its governance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u343	Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor to request clarification from Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u344	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, talking here about public-private partnerships (PPI) is also talking, and much, about economics. I recall that in 2015 the PSD/CDS government provided savings in the renegotiation of EUR 7350 million in PPPs, but only reached EUR 760 million, 10 times less. Repeat : 10 times less! In other words, either the government acted for incompetence or evil! Or rather, responsibility gave way to irresponsibility, transparency gave way to opacity and truth was replaced by lies. The PPPs, particularly the highways, are authentic monsters that control public money... [[Look over there, that bench! Look at the government bench!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u345	... and indoor wear, lack of transparency and even prosecution of cases of corruption, with high profitability rates of 8 %, 10 % and 12 %, which is a real scandal. Net charges in 2014 and 2015 per year were more than EUR 1000 million and in 2016 EUR 1619 million. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u346	This State budget, which represents a fresh breath of air and the beginning of hope for the Portuguese people, provides in its report that there are no tolls on the streets without an alternative. This has to do with the economy and in the country we have three serious cases: A22, A23 and A25. A22 is a very serious case, and this has to do with the economy, with the lives of people, with what is lost in tourism and economy, as I said. The PSD / CDS government also imposed tolls in the Algarve, the previous leader of the PSD Passos Coelho, its government, also applied tolls in the Algarve, within the framework of the implementation of the PECs of the previous Government. But national road No 125 does not represent any alternative, as it is known, and has again become the « road of death». Almost 10 000 accidents / year, an average of 27 accidents/day,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u347	... about 30 fatalities / year, an average of 150 serious / year injuries. It is a sort of undeclared state of war in the Algarve that exists, and this is unbearable! The Left Block, the Algarve, the citizens, all the people in the south of the country will not rest until this tragedy that occurs in the south of the country ends. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Minister, to what extent is the re-qualification of this way at this time, which has open-ended works? This route was never effectively completed, in fact, the contract was mutilated, which at the moment brings atrocious suffering, which cannot continue, to the population of the southern country. I recall here Mr. Prime Minister's promises that, at a meeting he had with me before the legislative elections, he said he would study the contract of the Via do Infante, he recognized that the national road No. 125 was an authentic massacre and admitted to withdraw the tolls both in A22, as well as in A23 and A25, regions of particular tourist flow, cross-border and inland regions. We do not abdicate this struggle, be aware of it all and all of you. Members and Ministers here are present. I want to ask a question, which has a lot to do with the economy, as I said a little ago: what will the government do effectively? Are you going to finish the tolls on the Kid's Way? Are you going to reduce your costs? Will you temporarily suspend the tolls, bearing in mind that at present there are works on the national road No 125, what makes life even more difficult for people? [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]] [[I am currently summarising President Ferro Rodrigues' presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u348	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u349	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, one of the problems of our economy lies with the suffocating situation in which micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are also victims of the options and policies of the former PSD/CDS Government which have worsened even more the weak situation of these companies and that the VAT of restoration is only one of the many examples that could be given here. In fact, the change in VAT from 13 % to 23 % was a gap in the sector, but it also created a lot of moves in many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I would therefore like to note here the Government's decision to return the VAT of restoration to 13 % because this measure also included the joint position that the Greens had established with the Socialist Party. But, Minister, one of the most significant problems in this area is the difficulty that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises face with regard to access to credit with the bank. As we know, these companies, in addition to their excellent contribution to our economy, also have a very important role to play in combating desertification and the depopulation of the interior and therefore in combating regional asymmetries. It is therefore important to create support mechanisms and reverse the policies that have been followed so far and that only the large economic groups were concerned about the agony of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Minister, I would like you, if you could, to tell us about the support and measures planned for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Does it not seem to you that it would also be important to study ways of forcing the bank to set quantitative targets of support for small and medium-sized enterprises? [[Applause from the Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u350	To reply, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the various speeches. Starting with the principle, by the intervention of the Left Block, I also welcome, indeed, and I think that this is a discussion that we need to have more in Portuguese society, to look more at the structural factors of competitiveness, to the issues that affect our companies, that affect our society and that are decisive to competitiveness. Portugal still has an important path to do in qualifications. Portugal had a very large structural delay, it has evolved a lot, but today it has an important path to do in taking advantage of the qualifications it has, and I think this is an important aspect. In innovation too, Portuguese companies have made progress, but there are incentives and support that can be improved, and for that we must promote the use of Community funds, and I believe that we all agree with that. I would also like to thank the intervention of Mr Socialist Party, stressing that it is precisely in these areas of support for innovation, support for start-ups, companies that want to start, and also support technology transfer in the more traditional sectors, through the programme we have with the technological centres, which we want to develop and help companies. It is also with the capitalisation funds, which we have already announced and which we are launching right now, that we want to support companies, knowing that many Portuguese companies still have financial difficulties, and this affects mainly small businesses, which are an important part of our business fabric. Mr Sérgio Azevedo, I just want to say that I have already clarified this issue. I welcome the attention that the PSD has given to the regional press, which, in fact, deserves our full attention, but in fact, there were numerous media agencies present and no one else has interpreted my words in this regard. Fortunately, this paper brought me to the record I had and in this recording I never referred to the words « subsidies» or « cuts». In fact, when the journalist asked me about the replacement of subsidies, in the answer I may have given, I was misinterpreted, but what I said was that there were no further measures planned — that is how I started the answer. Now, how did that interpretation end up in the title? In fact, I welcome the title for the double refusal: « Minister does not exclude(...) ». Well, I didn't exclude the Martians landing for the week in Portugal. [[PS laughter.]] I did not exclude immense possibilities... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] I didn't exclude them, because I didn't talk about them, and I didn't talk about any cuts of subsidies, because I didn't intend to talk about them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I can only thank you for the opportunity to answer that question here. Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to point out that there is no criticism here, nor of my predecessors in the economy folder, nor of Portuguese companies. International trade data are published by INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), an institution that respects Portuguese entrepreneurs and has all respect for and exemption from different political forces. I have only noticed what these data tell us, and it is not true that Portuguese exports grow further when there is a contraction of domestic demand. I was not even discussing the causes or the need for a contraction of domestic demand, I was just saying that the years in which there was more contraction of domestic demand did not coincide with the years of higher growth. As for the declarations of lesser appreciation by Portuguese companies, I will repeat what I said in my speech: « This growth was achieved by companies that invested, knew how to value their workers and also improve their technological and innovation capacity ». How can this be interpreted as less commendable in Portuguese exporting companies I cannot understand. I also said that the growth of exports from Portuguese companies has gone through the whole decade, has resisted the international crisis and even the financing problems that have existed in these years. More, highlighting the data now stated in 2015, he said that 2015 and 2016 appear as positive years, noting that it was years when, at the same time, there was an increase in domestic demand and also a good export growth in 2015, and the outlook we have for 2016 is also a good export growth. Therefore, I just wanted to point out that there is no contradiction between these two aspects and that 2012 was a year in which it coincided with a contraction of domestic demand, which did not make life easier for exporting companies, many of them active in the internal market and therefore had more difficulties in financing their expansion to external markets. That's all I wanted to highlight. The honourable Member asked what investments there were. Mr President, I am not here trying to have the paternity of something for which several other people have contributed. I recognize the merit that the City Council of Lisbon has had in order to attract the Summit Web to Portugal, I recognize that the previous Government has also engaged in this aspect and I can also say that one of the first meetings I had, already in the current Government, it was with those responsible for the Summit Web to demonstrate to them the continuation of this support and to assure them that these fears — they wanted to meet with me because, in fact, there were many people who were afraid of instability in the country — which, perhaps, exist in some heads, do not concentrate on investments. And what we see is one of the biggest investments in tourism to be made last month. Therefore, people who might have given up investing in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u352	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u353	...for fear of the current government, they have continued to invest. That is, I see Altice choosing the innovation centre in Aveiro, Mecatron investing in Évora and several other major events and investments to be realized and to continue to negotiate with us.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u354	Mr. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u355	None of this diminishes the merit of the previous government, simply denying the idea that there is some fear or fear of international investors with the change of government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u356	For an intervention, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u357	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, I had a question to ask you, you no longer have time to answer, but in any case I will leave a brief reflection and a question to which you will perhaps have an opportunity to answer in the debate in the field of expertise tomorrow. First of all, I ask: what would the Professor of Economics say, now listening to Mr Minister's statements? You went all these years to say that the country needed fiscal stability, fiscal predictability, investment, that export bets and internationalisation were fundamental to growth, and today we see a minister of the economy who, besides being an invisible minister, a minister without political weight, does not even have a model and a strategy for economic development for the country that achieves, in the middle of this blanket of flaps, which is the State Budget for 2016, a course. Of course, Portuguese entrepreneurs remain very concerned about the lack of direction, lack of visibility, lack of weight not only of the Minister but of the economic policies themselves for the coming year and, above all, the lack of strategy to consolidate the work done by the previous Government. Speaking of Community funds, Mr President, he insists on the same fallacy as Mr Prime Minister and Minister Pedro Marques, that is, he is the one who directs the Community funds, not even that of the economy. It is extraordinary to see that anyone who manages business support is a State Secretary of the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, nor did he, Minister, leave it to the Minister, which proves only the strength and political weight that the economy has in this government. But with regard to the repeated fallacy of the EUR 4 million paid to companies in 2015, it is a lie, it is a fallacy, in fact only compatible with the style of this government, which throws smoke curtains, which repeats reverses, which is in a permanent electoral campaign. I remind the Minister of the Economy — if you do not have these figures you can ask Minister Pedro Marques — that in 2015 the Community funds served to make a transfer of EUR 400 million, more than EUR 1 million per day, for the simple reason that in the same year when the candidatures for Portugal 2020 were being prepared, the QREN, the previous Community framework, which transferred to the companies EUR 400 million. And if you add to it the 600 million euros that were transferred in 2014 makes a total of 1000 million euros. It was EUR 1 billion in 730 days, Minister, much more than EUR 1 million! So when it comes to saying that they will now save the country with the injection of Community money, from Community funds in the Portuguese economy are missing the truth, because they forget that these values were fundamental to leverage the economic development of the country, to leverage companies. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Minister of Economics, my challenge is to ask what the government's prospects are for 2016. Are you going to do exactly the same execution as the previous government achieved in the previous two years? That is, when we arrive at the end of 2016 we will have EUR 400 million of Community funds, i.e. grants, support, transferred to companies? It's just, if you don't,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u358	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u359	...are far from achieving the fact that the previous government has succeeded and has enabled to leverage, yes, the economy, develop the country and contribute to exports and job creation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u360	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Minister for Economic Affairs: I would also like to add some comments and records on economic and investment policy matters, crossing the issues of the Community funds with the situation which, in particular, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have been facing increasingly in recent years, with real tax purgatory, regulation, etc. which continue to face today the result of the decisions and measures of the previous Government. In fact, we have a lot of work to do either in the debate or in the action, either in the decision, in relation to investment support and liquidity support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises facing a situation that is deeply unequal in relation to large economic groups and in particular financial groups and banks. In fact, by decision of the previous Government, we have been in the Portuguese economy with a mandatory intermediary for small businesses, which is the retail bank, through which the liquidity of the Community funds will be delivered to those who want to adhere to the reimbursable incentives and who thus stand before a financial golias, which is the bank, who will decide to manage how these Community funds apply on the ground. So we have a lot of work ahead of us to deal with the situation of such tax purgatory, not only of the taxes that are to be paid, but of the cost of context associated with such fees and taxes that, at the time, were identified by someone, but which, however, has left and left the case even worse, in relation to...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u362	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u363	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, we have a lot of work to deal with the situation of such tax purgatory in relation to an even greater inequality, which will confer a competitive advantage on those who have not before. That is why it is necessary to point out today the responsibility to those who, in fact, have caused the unfortunate situation that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises today face and of which they try to save themselves and win. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u364	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the closing phase of the debate. First of all, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Much has been said about the validity of the macroeconomic projections contained in this State budget. The success of the budget implementation will depend on the implementation of the forecasts. And this realization will also depend on the logic of the financial markets, whose unforeseeableness we all know and whose control is not largely within our reach. It is with concern that we will hear and read that Portugal will be in the hands of its international creditors today. A sovereign state cannot be hostage to a debt, it cannot be ruled by interests that will always be smaller than those of its people. This threat to sovereignty should be a cause for deep reflection for all Members of this House, under the penalty of being reduced to mere decorative figures of a state that presents itself as republican, democratic, sovereign and thus discredited by galloping levels of abstention and threatened by the most important constitutionally enshrined rights. We must not give up the responsibilities we assume, but we must not look at ourselves nor accept being subjected to financial, social or economic experimentation by international institutions whose excuses, mistakes, we always distrust. When last week the United Kingdom negotiated with the European Union various conditions of exception, it is important to bear in mind that the European Union is important for Portugal, but Portugal is also important for the European Union. This State budget is a government document resulting from the current political and economic situation and, of course, from negotiations and agreements between the four parties that support it. This is a work with a number of aspects that we recognize as positive, but it is not the State budget that we wanted. This document continues to reflect the existing paradigm of capture of the common good by private interests, a civilizational project that is ending, which has its foundation in anthropocentrism and the accumulation of wealth. There is the illusion of the myth of infinite growth. The planet is finite, as well as all its natural systems, and therefore this economic model cannot be supported without creating serious compromising imbalances. Economic growth has always been associated with increased consumption, destruction of natural resources and depletion of ecosystems. Everything is changing very quickly around us. What we are looking forward to today is significantly different from what we expected a few years ago. Scientific evidence tells us, increasingly emphatic, that we are at a critical and decisive time for the maintenance and balance of our common home, the planet Earth, at least as we know it. Human activity is compromising future generations and the survival of various species, including humans. We need to change practices, we need to rethink consumption, we need new policies. The end of a cycle is coming, it is urgent to develop and promote integrated policies, policies that simultaneously defend the interests of human beings, the planet and those who cohabit with us. The NAP will present several proposals to the State Budget for 2016, in our view, to contribute to promoting the recovery of family income, strengthening social cohesion, well-being and animal dignity and the protection of ecosystems.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u366	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u367	I'm done now, Mr. President. The amendments that we are going to propose do not disbalance the budget, do not compromise with the Government's programme, and therefore we believe that they are perfectly comfortable. I conclude that the Government has initiated the State budget report, hoping that the discussion of the next few days will be « responsible and dialogueant ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u368	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u369	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After four years with Budgets and wage cuts policies, cuts in reforms and pensions, precariousness, unemployment, forced emigration, retrofitting of rights, insisting on the tax burden on labour incomes, disrespected by the Constitution, unacceptable interference in the autonomy of local power and a constant weakening of the social state, the generality of the Portuguese families now breathes of relief, because in 2016 it will be able to start to free itself from the suffocation imposed by the previous government without pain or pity, without appeal or aggravating. Finally, after four long and painful years, after four Budgets where the discussion focused on how much more rights and income the PSD/CDS Government would withdraw from the Portuguese, the time has come to focus the discussion on what will be the degree of recovery of people's income and rights. Now, this turn in the centre of the discussion was only possible because the Portuguese, on 4 October, wanted to profoundly change the parliamentary framework, allowing them to seek solutions with alternative policies. It was the farewell to the old remote-controlled carriage that ruled us over four and a half years. And, with good rigour, the problem was not only that we had been ruled by a remote-controlled car; the worst thing is that, until today, no one has been able to know who was the owner of the command. It never became clear whether it was the European Commission, whether it was the IMF, whether it were the large economic and financial groups, whether it was Paulo Portas or whether it was the Rabbit Steps. It was the farewell to inevitability and the return to respect for our Constitution. So the time has come to think about people. The time has come to return income to families and make the economy grow. This, we know, is not the Green Budget, it is the Government of the Socialist Party's Budget, a Budget which, in our view, could go further, because far is still from necessary. It is a budget conditioned by constraints, especially external, from the outset by public debt, whose renegotiation, from the Greens' point of view, continues on the agenda, because it also continues to suffocate the country and compromise its development. Nevertheless, it is a Budget that seeks to respond to some of the most urgent problems in Portuguese, but which calls on us to continue to work responsibly, in order to improve and seek even more social justice, to improve people's quality of life and to look at our natural resources with eyes to see. It is in this sense that the Greens will continue to work, with their contributions and with their proposals, both in the field of budget expertise and outside the budget, both within the Assembly and outside the Assembly, with people and populations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the last four years, one of the environmental problems that has worsened most was undoubtedly the depopulation of the country, a problem that, as we know, drags others, such as ageing and social and environmental impoverishment, with a marked loss of biodiversity and acceleration of desertification of vast regions of the territory. Repopulating the interior and mitigating regional asymmetries is an urgent responsibility which, moreover, consists of the joint position of the Greens with the Socialist Party and, in this respect, rail transport plays an absolutely decisive role. Therefore, it is required to turn the page over to a view that for too many years has conditioned investments to the intention of privatization of the sector and services considered as easier and faster return. Thus the national rail network was dismantled and the right of access to the train was drastically reduced to several areas of the territory, accentuated the isolation, interiority and depopulation. We are sure that the Government of the Socialist Party will commit itself to turning the page in this area too, giving an expression, both within the State budget and in defining priorities in terms of Community funds, to the various draft resolutions on this and other environmental issues which have been and have been approved in this Parliament. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was already public that the PSD and the CDS would vote against this State budget, but, despite everything, we were still hoping to know why. After all, we're closing the discussion and we're not aware of the reasons why the PSD and CDS are voting against. By the way, they shouldn't have much to catch. They talk about errors and versions, but they beat all the records in Reforming Budgets; they talk about too optimistic forecasts, but they are far from the absolutely surreal optimism of former Minister Vítor Gaspar; and they talk about the failure of the goals, but they literally failed all the goals of their Budgets. Now, not by the way they vote against, it can only be by its content. Therefore, PSD and CDS vote against this Budget because it is against the recovery of family income, against tax relief in labour income, against strengthening social support, against combating poverty, against the end of some tax benefits allocated to large economic and financial groups, against the end of the exemption from IMI for real estate funds, they do not want the bank to pay any more, they do not want people to recover the wages and rights that the previous government has withdrawn them and, above all, they do not want to go contrary to the denunciation that the poet, who has already been mentioned here, makes, in a beautiful tune, "We are so many that we have almost nothing, because there are a few who have almost everything". [[PCP applause.]] from the Greens, we will vote in favour of this budget, because, despite being far from what is necessary to meet the needs of the country and Portuguese, we seek to restore some justice in the midst of such injustice imposed by the previous government, PSD / CDS. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u370	Mr Francisco Lopes has the floor for the closing intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: over the past few decades, right-wing policy, with particular intensity in the last four years, has created a serious situation, with a huge setback in production, employment, rights, living conditions for workers and the people. The PSD and the CDS were preparing to make the State Budget for 2016 another operation to exacerbate the exploitation, impoverishment, compromise of the country's future. They have been defeated by the struggle and the vote of the Portuguese people and have no chance to be here today to impose the continuation of the disaster path that they have followed in recent years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u372	For this reason, they have done everything to attack this Budget, not because of its limitations and inadequacies, but precisely because of what is positive and for which the CFP has made a decisive contribution, what is different, contrary to the indignity of the Budgets of recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u373	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u374	They therefore fled throughout this debate to assume responsibility for the state to which they led the country, but also to assume any responsibility for the projects they had to pursue and intensify the same disastrous course for the country. The difficulties of the PSD and the CDS in this debate are also caused by the refusal to recognize their defeat, the refusal to acknowledge that the forced march of exploitation, impoverishment and social injustice has been interrupted and that the way has been opened to respond to the urgent problems of workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]] Today, in addition to the general vote on the State budget, other votes will be taken in this House of the Republic. Today, the final final vote will be made on the bill that replaces the reform supplements to the workers of the state business sector, doing justice to the workers of the Metro and other companies, violently polished of their incomes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u375	Today, the overall final vote on the replacement of the cut holidays will be taken. After three years, the holidays will be restored, end four days of work without remuneration.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u377	In addition to the two religious holidays, the holidays of 5 October and 1 December, which symbolize the implementation of the Republic and national independence, are restored. [[PCP, Os Verdes and BE Members applauded.]] It's a positive sign. For so long they fought for this to happen and achieved it. This positive sign is associated with the State Budget for 2016. With the contribution and role of the CFP, the State budget integrates tax relief measures on workers, the reduction of over-tax and the return of cut wages, improves social support for children, the elderly and people with disabilities, facilitates access to health with the reduction of moderate rates and the possibility of hiring more doctors; reduces VAT in the restoration; protects families from the increase in IMI ; includes measures that allow them to take a first step in combating precariousness in the Public Administration ; and progresses, however timidly, in taxing economic groups, with the increase in the contribution of the banking sector, the end of the exemption of IMI for real estate funds and the limitation of some instruments that large companies and economic groups use to avoid paying due taxes within IRC. Being different, for better, this is not the PCP Budget. The budget involves many limitations and shortcomings resulting from the PS Government's options. The answer that Portugal needs to go further: to go further in public investment, in pension pensions, in wages and workers' rights, in financing health, education, social protection and culture, in support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and family agriculture, in taxation on large capital. The CFP's vote in favour, in general, of the State Budget for 2016 is inseparable from the evaluation of its policy framework and impact and the positive elements that we have recorded in the budget proposal and which can respond to immediate and important problems of Portuguese workers and people. The CFP will be actively involved in the debate in the specialty. The CFP will intervene, among other aspects, to ensure the real increase in the value of retirement pensions, the improvement of social unemployment benefit, the progressive introduction of school manuals free of charge, the reduction of the IMI rate, the support and fiscal stimulus to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the reduction of workers' contribution to ADSE and other public health subsystems. The CFP will mark its position against various aspects expressed in the State budget, including restrictions imposed on employees and services of the Public Administration and the business sector of the State with an impact on its incomes, progressions, links and rights or on the concessions of Silopor and IP Telecom. The CFP will intervene decisively so that the Budget can best match the aspirations of the workers and the people and the needs of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u378	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u379	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The process of discussion of this State budget has made it even clearer that the effective response to the country's problems is countered by the suffocation of debt charges to a large extent illegitimate, by the succession of scandals in the bank that consume billions of euros of public resources, by the constraints and blackmails of the euro and the European Union mechanisms. The process of discussion of this State budget showed, even more clearly, the need for rupture with the right-wing policy and that it is necessary and possible the patriotic and left-wing policy that the CFP proposes to the Portuguese people. A policy that assumes the renegotiation of debt within its time limits, interest and amounts and ensures the public control of the bank, where the New Bank should be included as a public bank. A policy that responds to the need to increase wages, reforms, pensions and other incomes of workers and the people, which combats precariousness, enhances labour and workers' rights, ensures more fiscal justice, taxes firmly and adequately the great capital. A policy that revives public investment, focused on defending and stimulating national production and job creation. A policy that promotes public services and social functions of the State in health, education, social security, culture, housing, transport. A policy that guarantees national sovereignty and frees the country from monopolistic capital and from submission to the euro, the European Union and other external constraints. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : When positive steps are taken in this State budget that meet the problem resolution and the response to the aspirations of workers, pensioners and pensioners, the unemployed, the military and professionals of the security forces, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized farmers, the workers of the arts and culture, the Portuguese people, for which they have fought very hard in recent years, an essential question arises: do not waste any opportunity to improve living conditions and to vigorously pursue action and the struggle to ensure a developed and sovereign Portugal, a Portugal with a future. This is the commitment of the CFP, yesterday and today, the commitment of always to the Portuguese workers and people, in this confident and tireless struggle for a better life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u380	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, Mrs Cristian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u381	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is extremely important — the clarification of the political responsibility of this State budget. Since the takeover of this minority government, supported by the union of the left, we do not know exactly who is with whom and when. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u382	We have seen the embarrassment of the Reformary Budget, we have seen explicit requests for debt renegotiation by those who support the Government and we have doubts about which position this government, which is called a Europeanist and committed to the Treaties, on the one hand, but on the other hand assumes a misunderstanding. We have heard criticism yesterday and today, in this same House which, at least, were able to generate doubt: who supports and who defends this Budget? Dried on one side, this Budget reminds children in a play: when there is a nonsense, no one has the blame, no one is ever responsible. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] It is about this that we saw yesterday: the PS saying that what he liked was the outline and therefore the European Commission's fault; the Bloc, the PCP and the Greens Ecological Party, each in its own way, to "shake the water from the hood", invoking the lesser evil. But today, the agreement of the left, made at the top and with embarrassing photographs,... [[Protests of BE and of PS Member Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] ... receives the chance of parliamentary advertising. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u383	Today, the affiliation of the State Budget for 2016 will appear with crystal clearness at the time of the vote: this is the Budget of PS, BE, PCP and Greens. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is the budget that no one wants, but that the whole left approves. And it is understood that no one wants it: this is the Budget of austerity, recklessness, mistrust, doubt, disappointment, public employment and a great omission. It is the Budget of austerity, austerity « on the left» — let us know – but austerity. This means that, supposedly, it does not move into taxes that vary according to the taxpayer's ability, i.e., the one who has less pay and the one who has more pay, like the IRS, but moves on others, those who all pay in the same way, regardless of their income, such as the tax on gasoline and diesel, making more harm to taxpayers with less income. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u384	It is worth asking whether this is fair and logical, but it does not seem that the left ones are very uncomfortable. But it is also not true that the IRS is safe: families with children will see their IRS aggravated with the elimination of the family quotient. [[CDS-PP applause.]] See the case of a couple with two children and gross income of 1000 € per month per holder: even with the correction to the 600 € in the deduction to the collection, today announced, this family will pay more 143 € per year, with this Budget, than it would pay with the family quotient and the reduction of the surcharge, as was planned for 2016, by the coalition. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Viewed in 2015, the Portuguese paid EUR 39 billion in taxes ; in 2016, the Budget expects them to pay almost EUR 41 billion in taxes. We agree that it is little, it is very little for those who made their main flag from the end of austerity! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] It's the unwise budget. It is nice to want to return everything to everyone at once, but certainly more important than speed is the strength and stability of return. The government believes that, by returning income to people, growth will appear as a natural consequence. We would even like to believe it, but unfortunately we know this 2009 film. And it is worth remembering here: in 2009 public servants were increased 2, 9 % and less than a year and a half later the country was on the brink of bankruptcy and the troika entered Portugal. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u385	This socialist recipe of basing growth only on pure consumption and simply does not work! [[CDS-PP applause.]] It's the budget of mistrust. from it began to distrust independent, national and international institutions, the European Commission, the Eurogroup and finally the financial markets, with the interest of debt to rise to levels that we no longer knew since the beginning of 2014,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u386	The CDS is all happy!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u387	... when the PS, I remember, still frightened people, not with a new rescue, but at least with a cautious program. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] We therefore returned to the interests of the time of the troika, in the time of mistrust. And without confidence, we regret, there is no investment and consequent growth. The government will say that it is the fault of European instability. And we're going back to the boys at the playground... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] But precisely because the external climate is more difficult, we must use all caution and ensure confidence in what depends on us. Or am I going to be wrong and, after all, nothing depends on us? And if so, why are we all here today? This is also the Budget of doubt. of doubt as to the possibility of its implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u388	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u389	The risks have been signalled, to the point where the Government is preparing a plan b that we have not come to know in these days, but which, unfortunately, I think we will soon know. It is also the Budget of Disappointment. Only to give two examples: in education, where it reduces EUR 82 million, or in culture, where it reduces EUR 2 million, withdrawing money from artistic creation. I wonder if it was for this that they wanted a minister... it is worth asking this question! [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is the budget that focuses solely on public employment. On the one hand, it stresses the cleavage between the public and the private sector, the first with 35 hours a week of work, the second, in its overwhelming majority, with 40 hours;...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u390	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u391	... on the other hand, it considers admitting 10 000 new public servants. It does not therefore take care of reducing expenditure. Finally, it is the budget of the great omission. And this big omission is economic and employment, investment support, business focus, which is the one that creates jobs in a sustainable way. The Budget distributes what will probably not have and does not care about the creation of wealth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u392	He did not turn the page of austerity and burned the page of credibility! [[CDS-PP applause.]] The changes to the IRC seriously affect the investment of companies, either by breaking a broad consensus on the reduction of the rate, or by relevant aspects such as the deadline for the reporting of losses, which Portugal is badly affected when, on the other hand, other countries simply eliminate. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister challenged us all to show the alternative. Well, for my part, I will always say that I like it, even without that challenge. The CDS is clear in its stance: to criticise when appropriate, to denounce with rigour, but always show the alternative. We are by prudence, by moderation, by gradualism and by the protection of the sacrifices of Portuguese and we will present proposals that show this. Yesterday the Banco de Portugal data on the Portuguese economy came out and, for the third consecutive year, the trade balance was positive, something that had not happened for many decades, with exports of goods and services to be increased by 4, 7 %. How was that possible? It was possible because our focus was the creation of conditions for companies to invest and export, be competitive and contenders, move forward and win the world. The focus of this Budget should be precisely the creation of wealth rather than the restoration of income without gradualism. Less popular, certainly, but more consequent, more robust and more capable of facing the storms that are announced. [[All right!]] [[Protests by Mr. BE Heitor Sousa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u393	We would return the income gradually and definitely, as, moreover, we were already doing. The Government of the Left, in haste and in demagogy, has just increased taxes and, by its recklessness, jeopardise the efforts of the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u394	Mr. Prime Minister, you made your budgetary choices. If today he could choose it was because there was a previous government that freed the country from the troika that the socialists called. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] But I've never even been to hold grudges. Who makes the Budget is the Government, who has the responsibility to execute is the Government!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u395	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u396	If this budget fails it is because the country will certainly be worse than you found it in November 2015 when you started functions. That is not what I wish, and therefore I can only make vows that at least the Budget will fulfill! But if something goes wrong, then I only ask the four parents of this Budget to assume their responsibilities and not do as the children in school recreation! This is your budget, this is your responsibility! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, standing up, and from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u397	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u398	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Anyone who has attended the debate in the last two days may indeed have found it strange. It is not normal for an opposition that is said as such only to use the debate of a State budget to say that it wanted worse than the government had submitted. More: it is not normal for an opposition which is said to be announced, even before the debate on the State budget, to present no alternative to this budget. In fact, we can only understand that this opposition is neither the government nor the parliamentary majority that supports this State budget. This is the moment when we all realize that this PSD / CDS opposition is truly an opposition to the country. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The vote against, already announced by PSD and now by CDS, is that - because this Budget has positive things. Therefore, within a few days, when we vote for the replacement of wages and for the end of cuts in Public Administration, PSD and CDS will vote against. When we vote for the elimination of the over-tax of IRS to 99 % — I repeat, to 99 %! — taxpayers and taxpayers, PSD and CDS will vote against. When we vote for the rise of social minimums, for dignity, against poverty, PSD and CDS will vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u399	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u400	When we vote for the reduction of the VAT of restoration, eliminating this enormous injustice in our country, PSD and CDS will vote against. When we vote, for example, for the increase in taxes on banks, do not admire, PSD and CDS will vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u401	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u402	And now, when we also vote, for example, the end of the IMI exemption for real estate funds that leave our country, PSD and CDS will vote against. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] This is the vote against the PSD and the CDS : against the country, against people! [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u403	We also know that this is not the Left Block Budget, but it has many of the Left Block contributions. I said the CDS, even during today, that it is a shame, for example, that the Block, having proposed an increase in pensions, is satisfied with the thawing of pensions. It's worth explaining, because the CDS knows, but pretends not to know what's going on. It is that, in choosing PSD and CDS, only the minimum pensions of the minimums would be updated, but in choosing this State Budget, they are all updated. Repeat : all pensions, up to 628 €, will be updated. More: the lowest pensions will have the solidarity complement for the elderly, which, in total, can reach the €9. This is in fact the difference between the choices of the Left Block and those of the CDS or PSD. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] But this is not the Budget of the Left Block, it is the Budget that the Left Block will vote favourably and on which it is committed, because it is a Budget of Change in the Country. He materializes, for example, an important part of the agreement that the Left Block has signed, and we make it a matter of signaling. For example, the agreement provided for the social rate of electricity to be automatically updated so that the universe of people could have access. It was one of the subjects of this debate. But it is worth having some detail on the meaning of this measure. What is the social electricity tariff? It was created in 2010 and has several conditions of access, which I quote: the annual income of the aggregate cannot exceed €5800, plus 50% for each dependent; they may have access to one of the various social support, such as the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the social income of insertion, the social unemployment allowance, because this means that they passed the crib to have access to the social rate; they may have social pensions of disability and old age, in accordance with the same criterion; and they can have access to the first steps of the family allowance. Simplifyingly, it is the most vulnerable families in our country that should have access to this social tariff. But let's see: this rate, which has existed since 2010, as announced twice by the PSD/CDS government, would arrive—think! — 500 000 families in our country! I repeat: it has been announced twice, by two different ministers! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] After the size and pompous announcement, it would be expected that there would be at least some consequence to such a Christian conscience as CDS and PSD say. There isn't! In the universe of 1 million people who should have access to this rate, only 110 000 families have access to the social electricity tariff! [[Congratulations from BE.]] The fact that there are 110 000 beneficiaries means that 9 out of every 10 families, which the law provides that they should have access to the social electricity tariff, are excluded from this discount. Nine in every 10 families! And who's profiting from this? Well, the conclusion is simple: whoever earns EDP, which has earned at least EUR 25 million per year since 2010 for not paying what was competing for it in the social rate. In fact, it was a huge help to EDP, who had precedence over the choices of PSD and CDS, when they could and should have defended the families of poverty and austerity that they applied! What does the Left Block propose and wants to be in the final version of the State Budget? There is an automatism in the allocation of the social tariff. Any family that passes in the wake of conditions of access to social benefits must automatically have access to the social rate. Automatic access to the whole universe means that, truly, 1 million families will benefit from this social energy tariff. It is nothing less than the requirement that the law be complied with and that the same thing exists in England, that exists in France or that exists in Belgium. But we think it is possible to go further and give more income to these families in the electricity bill, because there is a matter that is there that nothing has to do with electricity, which is the audiovisual contribution. We therefore propose in this package that there be the creation of an intermediate tariff for the audiovisual contribution to these families. All added, for an average bill of 28 € electricity, plus 2, 65 € of the audiovisual contribution, what we propose is that there is a reduction that can reach 10 € for each electricity bill. This, yes, is social sensitivity! This, yes, is to think of the families, of the choices of a State Budget! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] There is a question that has been asked several times in the way of prosecution by PSD and CDS. They turned to the government and said: "But your State Budget to whom does it serve? And they pointed out: "It serves those parties, those parliamentary benches! Do not keep on seeking. ” I shall reply, on behalf of the parliamentary bench of the Left Block, and explain what this State budget, with the contribution of the Left Block and in which we shall vote in favour, indeed, defend. Defend those who live from their work, because they're going to have more income. It defends those who are in a more economically vulnerable situation, because it will have more income. Defend the pensioners, because they're going to freeze pensions. Defend the poorest, because it will update social support. Yes, it is these people who serve this Budget and that is why we are comfortable with this choice. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] But what would be the choices of PSD and CDS? Who would serve the budget that the PSD and CDS had proposed to present in this Parliament if they could do so? Well, judging for the past four years, it would be useful to create more millionaires in our country, more inequalities, more unemployment, more reduction of IRC to large economic groups, more millionaire profits for EDP or for Galp. That is why, in fact, those whom you wanted to serve in your State budget may be dissatisfied, but that is 1% of our country, it is not the 99% that will hit this State budget. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] We will be here to deepen this budgetary policy in the debate in the field of expertise. I have already indicated what priority priorities are for us, but there are other measures that we think can be envisaged and which have already been mentioned during this debate. We know of the urgencys that exist in our country and therefore we also fit them into the agreement we have made with the Socialist Party. Public debt, which still in this State Budget has a meaning of interest that is worth more than what we pay for education or as much as we pay for the National Health Service, is one of the emergencies of our country, such as private debt and, all added, the external debt of our country. Poverty and how non-contributory pensions should be used with all social protection to combat poverty must also be studied. Precautionary can no longer be the future of generations of our country, with long-term lives and denied rights. There's got to be some change! We have to study this matter! Housing, real estate credit and property taxation are another of the fundamentals, one of the constitutional rights that we cannot leave behind. Energy costs, one of the most heavy invoices in our country, must also be an even deeper issue beyond the social tariff. Tax policy, which truly guarantees the redistribution of wealth, is also necessarily a subject to study. I did not by any chance list all these subjects with a need for further study. They are indicated for working groups that the Left Block eagerly expects them to come to life and that they can act accordingly in the lives of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u404	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u405	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are aware that this State budget has been worse after passing through Brussels and we are also aware that it is in the hands of all Members of Parliament and all Members — and we will do our part in that — to make this budget better after passing through Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u406	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u407	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government : Let us not be afraid of the words: this is one, first, of the Budgets of Change. It is also the Budget supported by a parliamentary majority, with different degrees of enthusiasm, as it could not fail to be, considering its multiparty nature, but with the same commitment to defending change, defending the autonomy of the country and seeking to defend the rights and interests of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not the Budget on the right, we know. Or we don't even know! The fault lies with the ambivalence of opposition parties! The PPD says one thing, the PSD says another. The CDS says one thing, the PP says another! Everyone says everything and everyone says otherwise! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we know that the budget that the PSD would like to see is undeniable. Therefore, it does not propose amendments, nor does it indicate other ways forward. For the PSD, in relation to which one of the people closest to their authentic assessment says it is, paraphrasing with decorum, a « frustrated party » with « tired leaders », void is the political project that has the most at hand. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You have nothing to propose! Don't they? Deep down, they have, but they can't confess it. More gradualism? Yes, they have more austerity proposals, more and more austerity, as they promised Brussels this year of 2016. And when you insist on more austerity over them, you assume a political option. It is that even or, above all, when there are difficulties, contrary to what the PSD leader says, there are ideologies. The worst thing is he doesn't realize what he thinks and how he thinks and what he thinks as just the right one would think. [[P.S.'s applause.]] over the last few weeks, and even in the last few days, we have heard little more about the opposition than denial and diatrics and an attempt to prejudice abroad a decision of the European institutions to accept the proposed budget guidance. [[PSD protests.]] Invoking the word of a member of the most peripheral party of the extinct majority: « (...) the hope they had was that the agonists would confirm themselves and bring them the desired political crisis that gave them the opportunity to return to power at any cost and at any price(...) ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] He also rightly said: « (...) They always played in this hypothesis, but the agoirs did not confirm and therefore the spell turned against the sorcerers(...) ». To those magicians on the right, ever more concerned about you and ever more forgotten about your own country, we say: « Good thing you lost! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 30 years after accession to the European Economic Community and 40 years after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic, this is the most Portuguese budget that could be presented today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This is not the Budget that has imposed upon us, but rather a Budget that we have achieved, through persistence and dialogue, and that is, at the same time, a Budget of change and confidence. It is a Budget as a result of the constraints generated in previous governance and the external economic and financial environment, it is true, but it is also the result of a dialogue developed at the level of the European institutions and between the social and political partners supporting this new cycle of governance in Portugal. In the internal dialogue, we did not despise or disregard the differences between PS, BE, PCP and The Greens, but we gathered the similarities and mobilize their energies without exclusion or prejudice. And we will approve the amendments which, in our view, improve the Budget, increase the change, result from the agreements signed or comply with the guidelines taken by the PS during the last election campaign. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is quite different from the attitude of the current government towards the prevailing self-sufficiency which, at all times, the previous government has revealed. In the European dialogue, we were successful, breaking down uncertainties. We do not bow down or arrogantly, but we do not ignore the way we want them to look from outside. We did not neglect the country that could not be neglected and we did not live with what would only harm us. It is quite different from the genuflexion between doors and all steps made the previous government of the PP and PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dear Members and Members of the Government, reformism integrates dynamic governance and what will be involved with the PS Government is a progressive reformist conduct that promotes equity, social and economic efficiency and good governance, in order to produce less divergence and to produce more sustainability and convergence. The current change is that of replacing blind austerity by the intelligent and parcimonous use of public resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The task is to end a government that has altered immobilisms and reformisms that have led to the reversal of social protection, the weakening of economic activity, the ruin of family economies, the loss of thousands and thousands of young entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, the impoverishment of public services and State functions. The task is to replace a government that, by promoting all of this in the name of a supposed public finance regeneration, had as a balance, a huge and costly failure in meeting deficit targets, leaving us a huge public debt, which fell only slightly in 2015 because the so-called financial cushion was further reduced. The task, however, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not to go back, but it is to go back to correct what was wrong and that it should not have been done and, above all, to bring forward who is unfair or inhumanely left behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] the PS is responsible for succeeding a government that has destroyed without rebuilding, which has receded without returning hope and that has taken advantage of the uncertainty of a difficult time to open the way to an uncertain state where, they said, each one must depend on himself, that is, in other words, those who little or nothing have or can, they should only count on themselves—whether they are people, families or businesses. It is against this false social-democracy that, of democracy has little and of social has nothing, we have to undertake the necessary change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is the big difference: we do not destroy the State in the name of a false freedom of the social and economic initiative. Instead, we want a State that invests, helps and regulates, stimulates and protects people and businesses. We do not want any more state as we do not want any less state, but we do not exclude the necessary state. We want more politics where there has been more abdication in the country as well as in Europe, where we have entered, and for all this we have to change course. A consistent alternative in Europe to policies of deregulation and austerity is increasingly at the heart of the current European debate; an alternative that needs to be based on the rules in force, but which should aim at reforming it; an alternative that favours environmentally sustainable and people-oriented growth, greater convergence between countries, economies and populations in Europe. That is why we must mobilize with competence. It is in this perspective of reorientation that the State must fight and that this Budget seeks to anticipate and position and that other proposals, such as the Stability and Growth Programme and the National Reform Plan, which we have to prepare, should be called. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in four years, the previous government exorbited in austerity and did not achieve a single relevant budgetary objective. Changing to meet is what we want to do, to grow and have more investment, to improve public accounts. We do not deny that, for this reason, we are looking for new sources of revenue, but we have also demonstrated that we have done so and we will pay less those who have been most damaged in recent years and even look for their improved income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that there are risks from outside to achieve the goals we propose. The common sense and admission of all odds lead us to consider them. But these risks, although of course higher for countries in a more fragile situation, are at this stage aligned with the economic and financial forecasts of the whole and most of the countries of the European Union and should deserve everyone's vigilance and correction. Such concerns, however, do not dispense with changes in internal policies before they demand them! That is why strengthening the competitiveness of our economy should be among our priorities. Strengthening and creating useful availability in the financial sector to support companies, adopting incentives to small domestic consumption, mobilization, which has been neglected, funding for support to the value-generating and employment business economy, favouring productivity factors and not wage reduction, modernizing and simplifying procedures in relations with the Administration and bringing innovation, science and scientific employment to businesses, are essential objectives of the new orientation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must turn to the sea as one of the most important resources available that the country cannot alienate or simply ignore, as in the case of agriculture, finally try to respond at national and European levels to market crises, which have been neglected, for example in the areas of pig farming and milk. Social benefits and the sustainability of the social security system must be strengthened at the same time. We must invest in culture, in human capital and contain the deterioration of the education system that has removed thousands of young people from school progression and has demobilized the teaching body. We must invest in regional and local capacities, promoting decentralization and shared management. We must build consensus on areas of sovereignty, such as justice, internal security, national defence or foreign policy, where, however, it is important to correct what is needed. For example, in the justice system, to rebuild consensus that a management at least affected, or, in other words, to reverse a tendency to underestimate diplomacy that has removed us from closer cooperation within the framework of the CPLP or our historic and strategic commitment to the Euro-American dimension. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude: with this State budget, Portuguese will have more income, more social support, fiscal policy will have more justice, companies more support and regional and local administrations more means, public accounts less deficit and less debt. It was not the most, so it would already be a virtuous budget. [[PS, standing, BE and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u408	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u409	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now that the discussion is concluded in general the proposed budget law for 2016 is beginning to become clearer throughout the country, which can represent for Portugal and for the Portuguese the choices that are being made and its consequences for the future. The Socialist Party, in its Government Programme, as well as in the negotiation of the understandings within the majority that supports it, began by pointing out as a distinguishing fact of the beginning of its governance to assume the commitment for the accelerated reversal of austerity measures. Knowing the budgetary impact on the deficit that this choice represented, the government began to point 2, 8 % of GDP as an objective for the 2016 deficit. It is known that this objective included other measures to increase public expenditure that had been presented in the context of a medium-term strategy aimed at further stimulating the growth of domestic demand through the option of more social transfers, which would provide consumption growth, and through the option of more public investment expenditure. Together, these measures of aggravating public expenditure and reducing tax revenue would, according to the Government, allow for growing faster and faster, while at the same time meeting constitutional obligations and social equity. He defended the government that there would be no greater risk to this strategy. Budget consolidation is not called into question, only a more moderate rate of consolidation was chosen. Nor would any mistrust be generated as to the reduction trajectory of the public debt ratio, only greater likelihood would be given to a more sustained reduction of debt, because only growing more can be stronger to pay the debt and generate trust in creditors, they said. Is this really the perception of our creditors and external institutions to whom investors pay attention before making decisions? Would this be compatible with the rules of the European Semester, the so-called 'budgetary treaty' and the budgetary framework law which reflects it? I have asked the Prime Minister these questions since the start of the new government. Inaugurating a new political practice to leave unanswered what is not interested in responding,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u410	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u411	... the government there was moving forward that, if necessary, it would know how to defend this strategy in Brussels and that the country would have to see a government that was not subservient as the previous one and that it would be able to defend national interest with better results and everything without confronting European partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u412	Four times he left BANIF with no answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u413	And that is how, even in these budget statements, the Prime Minister gave an interview to the Financial Times, which revealed that the weeks of negotiations with the European Commission had been intense, difficult, but that a favorable result was being achieved that would remove scenarios of doubt and mistrust on the strategy of the new Portuguese Government. Then that's what you know. It's all over the stage. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The budget outline presented marked the beginning of the descent to land, with corrections to the macroeconomic scenario and a lower deficit objective. But it soon caused a great shock in Brussels. The independent national institutions assessing these issues had already exhausted the outline. He was unrealistic, very risky, and he was a ludicrous of European and national rules. The subsequent, sad result is known. The Government has been working for 10 days to change the nature of the outline and has presented a result which, although not totally rejected, leaves so much to be desired that new measures should, according to the Eurogroup and the European Commission, start now to be prepared to be included, preferably still in this budget proposal, before it is adopted, but at the latest to be discussed in April, together with the stability programme. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The budget proposal then shifted from expansionist to restrictive, a new socialist word to call austerity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But a better austerity, they say, since it has the socialist, blogger, communist and green brand. And, as we know, for the new majority — green, communist, blogger and socialist — your Budget can only be ideologically better and purer than anything else that has ever existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u414	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u415	For this reason, despite the fiscal burden no longer falling and some emblematic measures of the new government have been suspended for a new opportunity, this Budget, which, as we all realize, is still far from knowing its latest version, is presented as being the principle of the new time that you want to live in the country. In the middle, and on the edge of this authentic scene, the Government and its majority are completing the political and economic framework by scoring with the reversal of many other measures, not of austerity, but of a structural nature that the adjustment process has advised us to carry out. In education, in the business sector of the State with privatizations and concessions, in labour law, in income policy, in the reform of IRC, among many other sectors, the main message is to reverse and walk back in order to appear more progressive. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The hatred for progress has not been expected. The reputation and credibility that were threatened by Portugal with effort and sacrifice suffered a very strong fan. This same was well felt in the recent growth process of the Portuguese sovereign debt risk premium, which fired far above anyone else in the context of disturbance that hit the financial markets. Nor did the fact that the European Central Bank literally went on to purchase prevent investors from selling Portuguese securities with risk aversion and that Portugal, at the end of this process, had given rise to a level above what it had hard earned in terms of interest rates, leaving the prospect of increasing difficulties in the near future and likely worsening financial markets. Through the budgetary process, the tendency of the parties of the majority to convey a forged version of the historical reality was also aggravated, seeking to create in Portuguese the idea that the country had only crisis and austerity because evil and ideologically sent agents ruled the country in recent years. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u416	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u417	It is not surprising that this version runs on the side of the far-left parliament, consistent with its fictional fanaticism, not only of Portuguese reality, but of the world as a whole. But it is embarrassing to see the socialists, sometimes the same, who in the government in 2010 and 2011 defended and executed the cuts in salaries of the public service, frozen the national minimum wage, frozen the pensions, canceled the 4. o is 5. the steps of the family allowance increased all VAT rates, including the normal 21 % to 23 %, proposed and committed themselves to the withdrawal of tax benefits to families in the context of education, health and housing, within IRS, approved the worsening of the IMI, and from there on present themselves as the agents of a patriotic and progressive policy that waged in the growth of the economy and combat the evil austerity, which they themselves started. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And they believe that, by repeating this forgery, the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the spirits, who, at the bottom of it, know that austerity is not on the left or on the right, is what remains when the money is finished. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In crowning this unfortunate budgetary process there came the desperate accusations of lack of patriotism and even sabotage, in a personal accusation by the Head of Government, addressed to myself and other PPD / PSD Members, who will have or will have very powerful influences, at least in Brussels,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u418	They tried!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u419	...to let the Portuguese Government and Portugal go wrong. [[What a shame!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u420	Another personal accusation, also addressed to the nature of the previous leaders of the coalition between the PPD / PSD and the CDS-PP, had already been dismissed by Dr. António Costa about the alleged misuse to which we will have led the European institutions in the framework of the classification of temporary measures as having a structural effect, which they had, which would have allegedly contributed so that new but wrong government classifications could not take their course in Brussels, thus undermining the legitimate aspirations of the new governors. And in this way he judges the current Prime Minister who is relieved of responsibility for the measures he includes in this budget rush that he presents to us. He thinks that accusing, insinuating, denying his predecessor,...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u421	It's not denying, it's denouncing!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u422	... resolve your problem of being seen as the usurper of what failed to conquer by self-law in elections... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ...and to be able, after all, to remain with a replica of the true source of authority that needs to destroy and annihilate so that forgery is not noticed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I want to tell you, Prime Minister, that I deeply regret that these obsessions prevent you from making your way with the elevation and dignity that we would all appreciate to observe,... [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u423	... despite the differences that separate us and there are many. But, with some irony, I am pleased to see that, along with the « passism», which I did not know and that you wanted to create yesterday, I am involuntarily a relevant factor of stability for the Government in Portugal. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] In fact, despite being in opposition, every debate that passes realizes that an ambition that had not been reflected in the country's political situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u424	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u425	I am indeed disproportionate, unerring and ironically transforming myself into the main element of aggregation and union of the curious diversity of the majority that sustains it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u426	That's a lot of vanity!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me now try to summarize the essentials of what is at stake with this budget debate. The whole country knows what the budgetary strategy we would implement would be if we were in government. [[It was more austerity!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u428	We would defend a more gradual, but permanent, removal of austerity, in order not to stumble upon the excess of volunteerism and not force the Portuguese to have to pay in the future, again with more sacrifices, the recklessness of the present. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Don't you want to know what we'd do? Oh, my God! Listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We would bet on a more favourable taxation for businesses and investment to better promote debt-free growth and sustainable employment. More and better investments and businesses today represent more and better jobs and income tomorrow. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u429	We would be more demanding in the discipline of public accounts and more ambitious in debt reduction, in particular by anticipating more repayments in loans from the International Monetary Fund and saving more interest. Yes, this would have been reflected in the short term in budgetary matters, but Portugal would be in a more predictable and safer position. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u430	We would well exchange part of the tax effort that this Government is asking the Portuguese to pretend that it removes austerity from a reform of social security that would bring, by tax, sustainability to pensions and reduce the implicit and explicit deficit in the social security system,... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... thus generating trust and security of taxpayers in paid pensions and future pensions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We would be reassessing the first wave of structural reforms already carried out and preparing an ambitious agenda for a new wave of structural reforms, more focused on increasing the productivity of public services, to attract more external investment, to promote greater openness of our economy and the growth of our exports, to reverse the demographic recession and to tackle the economic and social causes of the deep inequalities that have persisted in Portugal for decades. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] And no, we would not be talking about debt renegotiating as a pyroman who delights in destroying the reputation and value of the economy, as is the case with the current majority of the government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause:]] We would also not be stimulating domestic consumption, which, fortunately, has gradually been recovering, nor would we be imposing an off-the-line income policy, as dangerously happened in the past, of productivity growth, which only has the effect of undermining the competitiveness of companies and generating more unemployment in the near future, nor would we even defend a Budget which, to support the illusion of the end of austerity, penalises the middle class and the numerous families, by disguises with one hand what clearly gives to the other, as once again proved by these last hour abilities that the government announced today morning. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We shall therefore vote against it. The Budget is bad and it is a poisoned gift for the Portuguese,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... leaves the country more vulnerable to external crises and does not do what is necessary to improve growth potential in the future, because it promises less employment and less investment than we have already achieved last year. And no, we will not change this budget. He doesn't have a possible arrangement,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... besides that it is legitimate that those who govern can do it with their choices and not with the choices of the opposition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u431	This budget is therefore yours. What separates us today is clear and important. More than programmatic differences, it divides the relevance that each one of us gives to reality and facts. And, as Churchill said : you should look at the facts, because they look at us!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u432	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u433	Therefore, the PPD / PSD is reformist, gradualist and realistic. And the socialist, blogger, communist and Green majority that supports the government is populist, retrograde and unrealistic. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u434	That's Azedume!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u435	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u436	I shall finish by saying that this is well reflected in this provisional budget. Being a repository of intentions, we will see how long it will resist reality and if the majority themselves believe in it. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] We hope that this time the cost of difference will be more accessible to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u437	You have the floor for the closing of the debate on behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u438	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues of Government : The debate, which now ends, of the State Budget for 2016 was a great moment of affirmation of confidence in Portuguese democracy. [[PSD protests.]] The debate now being closed shows that we are living a new time. A new time in the relationship between the Portuguese and the political leaders. A new time in the democratic affirmation of alternatives based on the support of Portuguese. A new time to rediscover our national dignity as full members of a European Union made up of free peoples and democratic nations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have heard, for some time, the spokesman for the despair of those who demonstrate that they have a difficult relationship with the democratic will of the Portuguese,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...a complex attitude towards the constitutional order and the democratic rule of law and an obsession by which external entities decide the choices that Portuguese make. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] I therefore call for the conclusion of this debate to reconcile with truth, democracy and the freedom to choose its destiny by the Portuguese, respect for our national and European commitments and respect for the Constitution. The State Budget for 2016 is a victory of democracy, it is a renewed hope for the economy, a sign that it is worth having your own voice here and in Europe. It is proof that it is possible to have a solid social and parliamentary basis for a path of compromise and stability, in respect of the plurality of the parties that will approve the Budget. It is a Budget that reconstructs trust in institutions after four years of pre-eminence, ideological fundamentalism, political extremism and deliberate confrontation with the social consensus of four decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, this is the Budget of the replacement of incomes withdrawn permanently and stubbornly offends the Constitution. Yes, this is the Budget of the return of private and public investment, diabolized by four years of recession. Yes, it is the Budget of the priority for employment that prevails over emigration, as a destiny and fatality of the most qualified generation ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the Budget of the reunion with a solidarity Portugal, which restores social minimums for the most disadvantaged, protects the poor elderly and assumes responsibility for the reception of refugees fleeing from war and oppression. Many hoped that this budget proposal would fail to see the light of the day. Some who once spent the words « commitment » and « consensus » hoped that the parliamentary basis that supported the constitution of the government would break down in the preparation of the main economic policy instrument. Yes, there is a compromise, there is a democratic dialogue, it has not been with you for this majority. They cheated roundly. The PPD / PSD, which for years has agreed that the definitions of budgetary policy are presented by officials of international institutions, has seen, with the approval of the Budget by the European Commission and the Eurogroup, fall its last resistance to hope, with a despair still expressed here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget shows that in democracy there are always alternatives. It shows that the Portuguese will makes sense and that the totalitarian temptation of single thought must be rejected, in the defence of Portuguese, of democracy and a more democratic and solidarityary Europe. This debate and this budget make it possible to draw 10 simple conclusions on the concrete dimension of the page turn that it represents, the area of commitment and stability that it opens. First simple conclusion: it is a budget that respects the Constitution and the rule of law. The Portuguese lived four years of budgetary exception regime, marked by the repeated violation of the Constitution and a permanent blackmail on the Constitutional Court, reaching the Prime Minister to propose amendments that would make the judges more friendly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u439	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u440	Three unconstitutional budgets and a fourth subject to a previous lead of its essential measures — this was the symbol of four years of conflict that caused us to waste time, open wounds and generate total instability in budgetary implementation. Yes, this budget meets the Constitution. This Government respects the separation of powers and does not pressure the courts. This budget is proof that it is possible to consolidate public accounts and respect the rule of democratic law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Complying with the Constitution — approved by a qualified two-thirds majority in the Assembly of the Republic — is the basis of the political agreement that gives the majority parliament and is a requirement for the regular functioning of democratic institutions, always violated by the now-right minority, and for the launch of a medium- and long-term budgetary strategy with stability and predictability. Second difference: this is a budget that meets the electoral commitments. It is true that this budget is based on the strict fulfilment of the commitments made in the PS electoral programme, as well as the agreements which, transparently and reflecting serious and rigorous work, were concluded with the Left Block, the CFP and the Green Party, and reflected in the Government Programme, approved by this Parliament. Complying with the commitments made is a sign of the maturity of Portuguese democracy. The strangeness of the right-wing minority and some analysts is that we do not apologize for the heavy inheritance of four years of budgetary instability and ideological prejudice, nor do we invoke any change in circumstances to violate electoral commitments. Yes, in this Budget there are no cuts of salaries and unannounced pensions, as happened in 2012. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget complies with the decision of the Constitutional Court and restores salaries and pensions withdrawn between 2012 and 2015. Yes, this Budget does not turn the promise of lower taxes on the middle class into a huge increase in taxes, as never before. This budget respects the exemption from tax administration instead of transforming into a partisan machine for the handling of reimbursements to announce returns of 35 % of the overtax in electoral campaign that have disappeared soon thereafter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget complies with commitments by eliminating or reducing the over-tax of IRS to 99, 7% of taxpayers, starting the gradual reduction of labour taxation and the recovery of the IRS's offended progressiveity. This budget fulfils the commitments by restoring equality in the tax deductions of descendants, ending with the tax indignity of a right daughter of Tea Party, for whom a child had a higher tax deduction the wealthier his family was. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget complies with commitments with small and medium-sized enterprises, which create local employment, by reducing the VAT of restoration to 13 % instead of the unacceptable absolute priority to reducing the IRC of large companies, in barbaric violation of the 2013 IRC reform itself. This Budget meets commitments with the Portuguese, by updating more than 2 million pensions up to €628, frozen since 2011, by updating the RSI (social income of insertion), the solidarity complement for the elderly and the family allowance. All this, instead of cutting 600 million euros in paid pensions with which the current right minority has committed to the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Lower taxes on work, protect pensions, guarantee minimum social dignity, these measures honor social justice. They are, in fact, the more social-democratic and social-Christian measures of the last few years, after four years of extremist drift that put them at stake. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The government was confronted with the risks of the 2015 budget implementation and a public debt exceeding 130 % of GDP in September 2015. The biggest surprise for taxpayers in recent months was neither the Government Programme nor this State Budget. The biggest surprise for the Portuguese were the charges with the resolution of BANIF. And nothing affected the image of Portugal in the financial markets as well as decisions on the recapitalisation of the New Bank. One day they will have to be fully taken over the responsibilities that have led to delay intervention at BES after the end of the adjustment programme, or to leave the resolution of the BANIF problem until after the legislative elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, we are all injured by BES and BANIF and, therefore, we will have to make sure, in time, that the 'dirty hands' of the alleged 'clean exit' are in place. But even these heavy inheritances do not affect the fulfilment of the commitments with Portuguese, even if they hinder the stabilization of the financial system and remove resources necessary for the dynamisation of the economy. Third difference: this is a Budget that values social dialogue. For four years, fiscal uncertainty, with more than 80 changes to tax codes, fiscal instability and the fall in investment and employment have promoted conflict and eliminated social dialogue. Since 2012 the Economic and Social Council has alerted the heavy costs of the strategy to go beyond the troika. The 2016 budget is based on the stability of economic policies and the centrality of social dialogue. The commitment that the legislative changes affecting companies enter into force in January and July of each year and that the structural changes in the tax system will be made in 2017 ensure stability and predictability for economic operators. The increase in the minimum wage and the establishment of criteria for updating it to 600 € by 2019, based on a broad social agreement in social dialogue, is a sign of the nuclear role of social dialogue. As with the Constitutional Court, we will never look at the Economic and Social Council or the social partners as blocking forces. Fourth difference: this is a budget for consolidation of public accounts. It is strange, indeed, that the right-wing minority, with a true record of eight Reformary Budgets in four years, plus the Posthumous Reformary Budget, determined by the Banif resolution, will now be questioning the objectives of the proposed Budget Law that will be voted on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The public deficit has always exceeded the initial forecasts, ranging from 7, 4 % in 2011 to 7, 2 % in 2014. The 2015 data point to the gross infringement of the objectives of a deficit of 2, 7 % of GDP, with a deficit of 4, 3 %, despite the anticipated transactions in tax revenues meanwhile detected and which would contribute to limiting the deviation. As regards the structural deficit, the European Commission has already concluded its degradation in 2015. A curriculum — or Will It Be a Record? — the budget of this kind would have advised the right-wing opposition to be more prudent in this debate. The 2016 Budget shows that there are alternatives: it is possible to restore income, stimulate economic growth and promote social equality, in a context of fiscal consolidation and healthy public finances. The projected deficit of 2, 2 % will by far be the lowest since Portugal entered the Economic and Monetary Union, exceeding the 2007 register, which allowed Portugal to leave the excessive deficit procedure. The challenge now lies in the implementation of this Budget, which also foresees a deficit for 2016 that is the smallest in all South Europe, or that is smaller, outside the euro area, than the deficit of more than 4 % for the United Kingdom, for example. Fifth difference: this is a budget for reducing public debt. The global financial crisis in 2008 had a heavy impact on sovereign debts, which led to the euro area being seriously called into question on its foundations, with a significant increase in public debt levels. High levels of indebtedness, both public and private, significantly limit European economic growth. This issue must be addressed in a comprehensive and concerted manner, without creating fractures that call into question the European project: 14 of the 19 countries in the euro area have public debt levels above 60 % of GDP. In Portugal, 2007 was the last year in which a reduction in public debt vis-à-vis GDP occurred. Similarly, history will not be diminished with the PSD/CDS government, which, considering debt as the alpha and the omega of its economic strategy, has managed to register the growth of public debt of 96, 2 % of GDP in 2010 to 130, 5 % in September 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The 2016 Budget, when forecasting the reduction of public debt to 127 % of GDP, initiates a sustained debt reduction path, associated with debt substitution with higher charges, benefiting from the positive effects of the ECB's intervention. in this matter, the arautos of misfortune, always torturing by the rating agencies against the country, are discouraged, because, despite all that has been said here, the interest of the Portuguese public debt is today at lower levels than that of the end of 2014 or clearly lower than those before the start of the sovereign debt crisis. Sixth difference: this is a budget for reducing the tax burden. The huge increase in taxes in 2013, which particularly penalized labour income and the middle class, contributed decisively to the decrease of 11, 5 % in the available income of families. The 2016 Budget is the first to set a target for reducing labour taxes and tax burden. The reduction in over-tax results in a cut of EUR 430 million in IRS revenues. The creation of deductions per child, by eliminating the family quotient, allows the IRS to be lowered to the overwhelming majority of families with children.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u441	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u442	We therefore assume options related to the containment of the consumption of imported goods, such as the change in the seal tax on consumer credit or vehicle tax. We understand the frustration of the right with the adoption of measures that contravene its priorities and peculiar sense of justice, such as the increased contribution of the bank to the Resolution Fund, the elimination of IMI exemptions for investment funds or the IRC effect of asset revaluation. We know that they also do not support the reduction in the VAT of restoration and that they prefer to continue cutting wages and pensions. The Portuguese also understood the difference, and that is why the right has lost the majority in the elections and today is this opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The seventh difference is that this is a budget for economic growth, a friend of investment and employment. After years of degradation of investment levels, the Budget points to an investment growth of 4.9 % and points to the dynamisation of the use of the European funds of Portugal 2020, paralysed at the end of two years by bureaucratic inefficiencies and by the regulatory forest created by the right government. The Simple investment will be essential for economic operators to regain confidence in the growth and employment-promoting State. The initially planned GDP growth rate would allow for greater anticipation of recovery of growth levels. However, this budget has been guaranteeing the highest level of growth and the lowest rate of unemployment since 2009. It will not be possible in a few months to recover from the trauma caused by the international crisis and the austerity policy of the past four years. But, clearly, we can say that 2016 is the year of turning the page into a priority for investment and job promotion Eighta difference: it is a budget that bets on innovation and knowledge and on the return of university autonomy. If there is a mark of the governance of the PS that we are proud of in recent decades is that of the drive to innovation, science and knowledge, in the framework of a broader bet on the qualification of people. Portugal of the qualification deficit was replaced in two decades by Portugal of the pre-school for all, of the full-time basic education, of the extension of higher education and of the post-graduation of reference. We went up to high spending levels in R & D and to create a generation of gold of new talents. It was this civilizational leap that the right-wing government tried to decimate with the attack on university autonomy, cuts in spending on science and innovation, ideological prejudice regarding social sciences and the call for mass emigration of our young brains. This budget will turn the war page to innovation and knowledge, resume investment in science and restore university autonomy, significantly extending the ability to manage human and financial resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The ninth difference: this is a Budget of confidence in local autonomy and decentralization For four years, local autonomy has been permanently challenged. In the tradition of our right—always strong with the weak and submissive to the powerful—the reorganization of the parish was chosen as a priority for political action « to see troika». Social and political costs were high, low administrative rationality and zero savings. The PSD government has forgotten to tell the troicaque only the public expenditure with the BES resolution corresponded to more than 21 years of transfers to the parish. The 2016 Budget will turn the page of the violation of local autonomy, giving local authorities a stronger role in mobilising European funds and attracting investment. These options represent the reunion with the principles of local autonomy and subsidiarity, the commitment to the enhancement of the interior and the development of a decentralization plan, a cornerstone of a real state reform. The local administration deserves, because since 2002 it has been the sector that has contributed most to the improvement of public accounts, significantly reducing public debt in a global context of increasing indebtedness. This is another reason for an option of confidence in local power and decentralization. Last difference: it is true, this is a Budget of choice and alternative, in Portugal and Europe. It ends the dangerous years of single thought imposition, contempt for the democratic will and degradation of the image of political leaders, reduced to mere enforcers of inevitable policies which are externally defined. This is a Budget that makes choices and assumes them. It is a budget that gives value to the vote of the Portuguese and places the Assembly of the Republic at the heart of the decision, strengthening democracy. This is a different budget, which corresponds to the choices of the Portuguese in the elections and to the rejection of the right-wing programme, the polls and here in Parliament. This budget is different because it meets commitments, changes policies and respects Portuguese and Portuguese. This is the first of four budgets of a Parliament for change, which respects the Constitution and the will of the Portuguese, which believes in the autonomy of the autonomous regions and local authorities, which bets on Simplex and decentralization to reform the real state rather than Power Points and sound bits « to troicaver ». It is a budget that trusts the school for all and the National Health Service. It is a Budget that transforms the sea of poetic design and landscape into strategic opportunity and investment priority. We protect work, the poorest and the weakest and believe in knowledge and the ability to create wealth. This budget expresses the will of the Portuguese in the Assembly of the Republic and Brussels. The Portuguese do not forget the shame of seeing the political options announced by foreign officials and a Deputy Prime Minister who spoke on behalf of a protectorate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This Government speaks on behalf of the commitments made to the Portuguese and their elected representatives. With the approval of the Budget, we want a mandate to carry it out in dialogue with the Portuguese. Our European commitment is to prove that, unlike the PSD/CDS government budgets, it will be executed rigorously, proving that only a political change can fulfill what is promised in Europe but above all the promise to the Portuguese. Our plan is to approve this Budget and our plan b is to execute it with rigour and determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the Budget of the progressive and supportive alternative to right extremism. Its alternative would be a budget equal to that of others, as promised in the Stability Programme by the then right-wing government. The adoption of this Budget, in general today, and by a month or so in the overall final vote, considering the amendments and improvements compatible with the defined objectives, will allow us to be here in October to present an even better Budget for 2017. A 2017 Budget that strengthens the change and further strengthens Portuguese confidence in democratic institutions and in the future of social development and justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u443	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, before we proceed to the vote, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u444	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 169 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Requests the Government to provide funds for the implementation of the agricultural partnership of Vitorino das Donas and Correlhã ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 170 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Requests the Government to provide funds for the implementation of the agricultural parcelamento de São Pedro de Arcos, Fontão e Bertiandos ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 171 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the maintenance of the New Bank in the public sphere, ensuring its ownership and public management at the service of the interests of the people and the country ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 172 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government amend Ordinance No 25 / 2015 of 9 February so that the amounts of support for areas of production grown with genetically modified organisms are of zero value ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. Bill No 138 / XIII ( 1 ) was added to the Table. ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council ( amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ) ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u445	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the vote. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 226 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Mr Heitor Sousa, of BE, and Mr Antonio Eusebius, of the PS, who failed to register, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting, in general, on Bill No. 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2016. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] [[PSP ( standing), BE (with members standing) and PCP Members applauded.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. I understand the satisfaction of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, which is natural, because we are about to end this session and an important document has been adopted. So I understand the satisfaction. Let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2016. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] [[Upstairs, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 13 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2016 - 2019. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u446	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u447	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u448	Mr President, I apologize, but Bill No 11 / XIII ( 1 ) a ), which we voted recently, aims to approve the Great Plan Options for 2016 - 2019 and not only for 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u449	That's what I said, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u450	No, no, no. Mr. President said it was only for 2016, which is what is also in the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u451	Mrs Deputy, I read the following: « Plurianual Framework for Budgetary Programming for the years 2016 - 2019 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u452	Mr. President, I am not talking about the last diploma we voted on, I am talking about the first, which approves the Big Plan Options for 2016 - 2019, and not just 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u453	Well, I think there are two proposals, and one is for 2016 and another is for 2016 - 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u454	A Plurianual Framework was in the vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u455	Madam Member, the first proposal we voted on is for 2016 and the last one we voted for is for 2016 - 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u456	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but that's not the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u457	Services ensure that this is what is in the initiatives and that one is different from the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u458	But it's wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u459	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 130 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a )...
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u460	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u461	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u462	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u463	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u464	Mr President, I ask whether it makes any sense to vote on draft resolution No 130 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), when its content is already contained in the proposed State Budget Act we have just approved, which had precisely the votes against the parliamentary bench presenting this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u465	Mr President, if you are scheduled, you must be voted on. Every week, we vote on proposals here after they have been approved. So there's no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u466	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u467	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u468	Mr President, it is only to help the Bureau in explaining that it is due to Mr Carlos Pereira. It is clear that today we only passed the bill in general. There is only approval when there is a global final vote. Only from that point on will the rules have effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u469	Thank you very much, Mr Luís Montenegro. Mrs. Members, let us therefore vote on draft resolution No 130 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of fixation and compensation allowances for Conservatives, notaries and registries and notaries in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u470	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u471	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u472	Mr President, I inform the House that the Left Block will present a written statement of vote on this matter. For two reasons: first, because the Assembly has this power... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u473	Mr, you cannot make the justification, you can only give the information.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u474	...and secondly, because the Budget is already in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u475	Mr President, the time is already coming to justify what will then be justified in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u476	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u477	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u478	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will present a declaration of vote on the need to vote on the diploma we have just voted on. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u479	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u480	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u481	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u482	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to say the same thing that other parliamentary leaders have said. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u483	What a surprise, sir! Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u484	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u485	Please, Your Honor. I suppose it's to say something like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u486	Exactly, Mr. President. That is to say that we will present a statement of vote on the diploma we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u487	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 101 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Evaluation and creation of a new national strategy for the integration of homeless persons ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] We moved on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein.3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Restores the national holidays of the Implementation of the Republic on 5 October and the Restoration of Independence on 1 December ( PS ), 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Replacement of retired national holidays ( CFP ), 20 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restitutes compulsory national holidays eliminated ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ) and 33 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restoration of deleted national holidays ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Upstairs of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u488	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u489	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u490	Mr President, it is to inform the House that we will present a statement of vote on the matter which we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u491	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein.os 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replaces pension supplements in enterprises in the state business sector ( CFP ) and 104 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Renominates the suspension of the payment of pension supplements to the employees of the enterprises of the business sector and restores the conditions for the allocation of these supplements in the field of collective bargaining ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Upstairs of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will also take into account two opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u492	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Cable Section of the District of Lisbon, Case No 23444 / 15.9T8LSB, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Roque ( PSD ) to testify, as a witness, within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u493	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will read another opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u494	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of 12. the Session of the District of Porto, Case No. 8944 / 15.9T9PRT, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Ricardo Manuel da Silva Monteiro Bexiga ( PS ) to testify, as a witness, within the scope of the cars in reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2016-02-23.u495	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of today's session. The next plenary meeting will be on 9 March, Wednesday, for 9 hours — I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members for the meeting start at 9 a.m. The solemn session of the takeover of His Excellency the President of the Republic will take place. Good afternoon, everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 35 minutes.]]
